TOWN CODE
OF
STOCKTON, UTAH
2017
Code current through:
Ord. 2023-05, passed 7-27-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Ste. 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Town of Stockton, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2023-05, passed July 27, 2023. Ordinances of the
Town adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
STOCKTON TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Town Council, this Code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official Town Code of Stockton. This Code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the STOCKTON TOWN CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the Town Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the Town as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (2017 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the Town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2017 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirements pertaining to the
amendment or revision by statutory requirement pertaining to the amendment or
revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such amendments or
revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the codifiers, and the
said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper place in
each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be properly identified
and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code. (2017 Code)
1-1-4: ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
Town Council. The Town Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the Office of the Town Clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of this Code shall make every effort to
maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the Office of the Town
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Town and shall be
returned to the Office of the Town Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
Town Council. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Town passed prior to the adoption of this Code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Town; and all special ordinances. (2017 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2017 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provisions of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Town
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
Town under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Code. (2017 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this Code, or any part thereof. The Town Council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one (1) or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and Town Council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other Town officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one (1) person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees: Whenever any officer or employee is referred by
title, such reference shall be construed as if followed by the words "the Town
of Stockton".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Town
has been changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection", or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the Town ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2017 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The Town Code of Stockton.
COUNTY: The County of Tooele, State of Utah.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the Town for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or other activity subject to Town regulation,
authorization or limitation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the Town, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or interest
therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The State of Utah.
STREET: Alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public squares, public
places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
TOWN COUNCIL: The Town Council of Stockton, Utah.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Printing and any other mode of representing words and
letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by law to any
official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper handwriting of
such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such person's proper
mark. (2017 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2017
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance:
      1.   Criminal: The Town Council may impose a minimum criminal penalty for
the violation of any Town ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum Class B
misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301 or by a term of
imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of
imprisonment.
      2.   Civil:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A2b of this section, the Town
Council may prescribe a minimum civil penalty for the violation of any Town
ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum Class B misdemeanor fine under
Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
         b.   The Town may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication for the
violation of a Town moving traffic ordinance.
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors: A person who has been convicted
of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a Class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a Class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   C.   Infractions:
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a Class C misdemeanor.
   D.   Fines Of Persons: A person convicted of an offense may be sentenced to
pay a fine, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a Class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a Class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction.
   E.   Fines Of Corporations: The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon a
corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this Code, or the ordinances of the Town, or for an offense
defined outside of this Code over which this Town has jurisdiction, for which
no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the
court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a Class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a Class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (2017 Code)
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this Code or the
ordinances of this Town shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this Code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified:
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into the following categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this Code or any ordinance of this Town when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a Class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this Code or other
ordinances of this Town, or which is expressly designated an infraction and any
offense designated by this Code or other ordinances of this Town which is not
designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction.
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this Code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Town Seal
1-5-1: TOWN SEAL:
The Corporate Seal of the Town shall be circular in form, the impression of
which is two (2) circles with "Town of Stockton, Utah, Corporate Seal" between
them, and the same is hereby established and declared to be the Seal of the
Town. (Ord. 98-6, 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Town Government
1-6-2: Elections
1-6-3: Duties
1-6-4: Meetings
1-6-5: Numbering Of Ordinances
1-6-1: TOWN GOVERNMENT:
The Town government is vested in a Town Council, consisting of a Mayor and four
(4) Council members, to be elected at large. (Ord. 98-6, 9-14-1998)
1-6-2: ELECTIONS:
The election and term of Office of the Town Council shall be as follows: The
terms shall all be four (4) years with the Mayor and two (2) Council members
being elected in one (1) Town election year and the other two (2) Council
members being elected in the following Town election year. The officers so
elected shall enter upon their duties at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the
first Monday in January next succeeding their election. (Ord. 98-6, 9-14-1998)
1-6-3: DUTIES:
The Mayor and Council members shall perform the duties as the same are, or may
be, prescribed by ordinance and State statute. (Ord. 98-6, 9-14-1998; amd. 2017
Code)
1-6-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular: Meetings of the Town Council shall be held on the second
Thursday of each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.; provided, that if the
meeting date is a legal holiday, then the meeting shall be held the next Monday
following that is not a legal holiday. All meetings may be adjourned from time
to time as business may require.
   B.   Special:
      1.   The Mayor or two (2) Council members may order the convening of a
special meeting of the Council. Each order convening a special meeting of the
Council shall:
         a.   Be entered in the minutes of the Council; and
         b.   Provide at least three (3) hours' notice of the special meeting.
      2.   The Town Clerk shall serve notice of the special meeting on each
Council member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice personally
or by leaving it at the member's usual place of abode, or by electronic means
(e-mail).
      3.   The personal appearance by a Council member at a special meeting of
the Council constitutes a waiver of the notice required under subsection B2 of
this section.
   C.   Electronic:
      1.   The Stockton Town Council may convene and conduct an electronic
meeting in accordance with this section.
      2.   The anchor location for an electronic meeting shall be Stockton Town
Hall.
      3.   The Town Clerk and at least one (1) Town Council member shall attend
an electronic meeting at the anchor location.
      4.   To schedule an electronic meeting, a member of the Town Council
shall make a request to the Mayor for the meeting at least three (3) days
before the meeting.
      5.   Notice of an electronic meeting shall be given to all members of the
Town Council at least twenty four (24) hours before the meeting so that they
may participate in and be counted as present for all purposes, including the
determination that a quorum is present. The notice shall include a description
of how the Town Council members will be connected to the electronic meeting.
      6.   A quorum (minimum of three (3) members) of the Town Council must be
present, in person or via electronic means, to convene the meeting, and shall
indicate their presence with a Town Council member roll call.
      7.   The first item of business at an electronic meeting shall be for a
quorum of the Town Council to approve a motion to allow Town Council members to
attend the meeting via electronic means.
      8.   The Town Council shall provide space and facilities at the anchor
location so that interested persons and the public may attend and monitor the
open portions of the meeting.
      9.   If comments from the public will be accepted during the electronic
meeting, the Town Council shall provide space and facilities at the anchor
location so that interested persons and the public may attend, monitor, and
participate in the open portions of the meeting.
      10.   Compliance with the provisions of this section by the Town Council
shall constitute full and complete compliance by the Town Council with the
corresponding provisions of the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.
      11.   Public notice of an electronic meeting shall be given:
         a.   In accordance with UCA Section 52-4-202; and
         b.   By posting written notice at the anchor location. (Ord. 98-6, 9-
14-1998; amd. 2017 Code; Ord. 2020-04, 4-9-2020)
1-6-5: NUMBERING OF ORDINANCES:
The Town Clerk shall number all ordinances, beginning with the year of passage,
followed by a dash, and a consecutive number beginning with the number 1 (i.e.,
2015-01). All ordinances shall be filed in the Town ordinance book in the order
of their passage and shall assign appropriate section numbers in conformity
with the system of numbering sections used in this Code. (1960 Code § 1-7; amd.
2017 Code)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, DEPARTMENTS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Town Clerk And Deputy Town Clerk
1-7-2: Town Treasurer
1-7-3: Police Chief And Police Officers
1-7-4: Justice Court
1-7-5: Bond Requirements
1-7-6: Compensation
1-7-7: Appointment Of Other Officers
1-7-1: TOWN CLERK AND DEPUTY TOWN CLERK:
   A.   The Town Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Town
Council. (2017 Code)
   B.   The Town Clerk of the Town Council shall be the custodian of, and must
keep safely, the Corporate Seal, records, plates, books and papers belonging to
the corporation of the Town; shall attend all meetings of the Town Council and
record its proceedings; shall audit all claims presented to, and draw warrants
on, the Town Treasurer for all appropriations made by the Town Council; shall
annually assist with an independent audit of the records of the Town and keep
such record showing the financial condition of the Town, including receipts and
disbursements, debts due to and owing by the Town and to or from whom due; and
shall perform such duties as may be assigned or requested by ordinance or order
of the Town Council. (Ord. 98-6, 9-14-1998)
   C.   The Town may hire, at the discretion of the Town Council, a Deputy
Clerk to work under the Town Clerk. Duties of the Deputy Town Clerk are to be
assigned by the Mayor and/or Town Clerk, as required. (Ord. 92-1, 2-3-1992,
eff. 2-3-1992; amd. 2017 Code)
1-7-2: TOWN TREASURER:
The Town Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Town
Council. The Town Treasurer shall receive all funds belonging to the Town and
shall disburse said funds only upon warrants signed by the Town Clerk; shall
keep in suitable books a full account of all receipts and disbursements made by
or to the Town, with the names of the persons paying or receiving such funds,
and the object thereof; and shall give to each person paying money into the
Town a receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment, and upon what account
paid. The Town Treasurer shall perform such other duties as are or may be
required by law or ordinance or order of the Town Council. (Ord. 98-6, 9-14-
1998; amd. 2017 Code)
1-7-3: POLICE CHIEF AND POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Police Chief Duties Generally: The Police Chief shall attend all
regular and special meetings of the Town Council; shall execute all orders of
the Mayor and Town Council; preserve order in the Town; arrest and bring all
disorderly persons before the Justice Court Judge for trial; shall take from
the person arrested all offensive weapons and keep them in a locked evidence
room or locker; shall take such measures as shall be necessary to secure the
peace and good order of all public meetings; and shall perform such other
duties as are or may be prescribed by law or ordinance or order of the Town
Council.
   B.   Appointment Of Officers: The Mayor and Police Chief are authorized to
appoint sufficient officers for the purpose of keeping order. Such officers
shall take an oath for the faithful discharge of their duties; and while on
duty shall be under the orders of the Police Chief.
   C.   Records Maintained: The Police Chief shall provide and cause to be kept
a register of cases brought before the department and such register shall
contain all pertinent information pertaining to the case and shall give a
receipt for all articles and monies taken from a person under arrest. (Ord. 98-
6, 9-14-1998)
1-7-4: JUSTICE COURT:
   A.   Justice Court Judge: The Justice Court Judge shall perform all the
duties required by law and ordinances set forth by the State. (Ord. 98-6, 9-14-
1998)
   B.   Court Clerk: The Court Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor and
approved by the Town Clerk. The Court Clerk shall perform all duties as
prescribed by the State Administrative Office and the courts; shall keep record
of all citations issued and the disposition of each; and shall receipt of all
funds received to the court and shall forward such receipts to the Town
Treasurer. (Ord. 98-6, 9-14-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
1-7-5: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Specified: Before taking the oath of office and entering on the duties
of their respective office, the Town officials, as prescribed by Utah Code
Annotated section 10-3-819, or as designated by the Town Council, shall each
have a bond with good and sufficient securities, payable to the Town,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of their office and the
payment of all monies received by such officers according to law and the
ordinances of the Town, in such amounts as will be established by ordinance of
the Town Council.
   B.   Town Treasurer: The Town Treasurer's bond shall be superseded by any
rules, regulation or directive of the State Money Management Council when such
rule, regulation or directive is binding on the Town.
   C.   Premium Paid By Town: The premium charged by any corporate surety for
any bond required in this section shall be paid by the Town.
   D.   Blanket Bond: The bond required in this section may be a blanket bond.
(1960 Code § 7-4; amd. 2017 Code)
1-7-6: COMPENSATION:
The compensation to be paid each official of the Town shall be established by
the Town Council by ordinance. (Ord. 98-6, 9-14-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
1-7-7: APPOINTMENT OF OTHER OFFICERS:
The Town Council may appoint such other officers as may be necessary for the
order and well being of the Town, define their duties, fix their term and
compensation, and remove them from office at pleasure. (Ord. 98-6, 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Conduct Of Elections
1-8-1: CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS:
   A.   Election for Mayor and Council members shall be conducted according to
the Municipal election section of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-404.
   B.   This section provides for the candidates for Mayor and Council members
to be nominated at a primary election if required. A primary election will be
held only when the number of candidates filing for an office exceeds twice the
number to be elected. The candidates nominated at the primary election plus
candidates that were not required to run in the primary are to be placed on the
November ballot. (Ord. 95-4, 4-3-1995)
CHAPTER 9
RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Government Records Access And Management Act Adopted By Reference
1-9-1: GOVERNMENT RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah Government Records Access and Management Act, Utah Code
Annotated section 63G-2-101 et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the
Town. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered Class B violations of
this section and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to
penalty provisions as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKINGS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Policy Considerations
1-10-2: Definition
1-10-3: Guidelines Advisory
1-10-4: Review Of Decision
1-10-5: Reviewing Guidelines
1-10-6: Results Of Review
1-10-1: POLICY CONSIDERATIONS:
There is an underlying policy in the Town, strongly favoring the careful
consideration of matters involving constitutional taking claims, in fairness to
the owner of private property bringing the claim and in view of the uncertainty
and expense involved in defending lawsuits alleging such issues. At the same
time, the legitimate role of government in lawfully regulating real property
must be preserved and the public's right to require the dedication or exaction
of property consistent with the Constitution. Consistent with this policy, it
is desired that a procedure be established for the review of actions that may
involve the issue of a constitutional taking. These provisions are to assist
governments in considering decisions that may involve constitutional takings.
It is intended that a procedure for such a review is to be provided, as well as
guidelines for such considerations. This chapter is further intended and shall
be construed to objectively and fairly review claims by citizens that a
specific government action should require payment of just compensation, yet
preserve the ability of the Town to lawfully regulate real property and fulfill
its other duties and functions. (Ord. 95-1, 1-9-1995)
1-10-2: DEFINITION:
   A.   "Constitutional taking" means actions by the Town involving the
physical taking or exaction of private real property that might require
compensation to a private real property owner because of:
      1.   The Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States;
      2.   Article I, section 22, of the Utah Constitution; (Ord. 95-1, 1-9-
1995)
      3.   Any recent court rulings governing the physical taking or exaction
of private real property by a government entity. (Ord. 95-1, 1-9-1995; amd.
2017 Code)
   B.   Actions by the Town involving the physical taking or exaction of
private real property is not a constitutional taking if the physical taking or
exaction:
      1.   Bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest; and
      2.   Is roughly proportionate and reasonably related, on an
individualized property basis, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the
proposed development on the legitimate government interest. (Ord. 95-1, 1-9-
1995)
1-10-3: GUIDELINES ADVISORY:
The guidelines adopted and decisions rendered pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter are advisory, and shall not be construed to expand or limit the
scope of the Town's ability for a constitutional taking. The reviewing body or
person shall not be required to make any determination under this chapter,
except pursuant to section
1-10-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 95-1, 1-9-1995)
1-10-4: REVIEW OF DECISION:
Any owner of private real property who claims there has been a constitutional
taking of their private real property shall request a review of a final
decision of any officer, employee, board, commission or council. The following
are specific procedures established for such a review:
   A.   Final Determination Required: The person requesting a review must have
obtained a final and authoritative determination, internally, within the Town,
relative to the decision from which they are requesting review.
   B.   Request For Review: Within thirty (30) days from the date of the final
decision that gave rise to the concern that a constitutional taking has
occurred, the person requesting the review shall file in writing, in the Office
of the Town Clerk, a request for review of that decision. A copy shall also be
filed with the Town Attorney.
   C.   Review Time Set: The Town Council, or an individual or board designated
by the Town Council, shall immediately set a time to review the decision that
gave rise to the constitutional takings claim.
   D.   Required Information; Materials: In addition to the written request for
review, the applicant must submit, prior to the date of the review, the
following:
      1.   Name of the applicant requesting review;
      2.   Name and business address of current owner of the property, form of
ownership, whether sole proprietorship, for profit or not for profit
corporation, partnership, joint venture or other, and if owned by a
corporation, partnership or joint venture, name and address of all principal
shareholders or partners;
      3.   A detailed description of the grounds for the claim that there has
been a constitutional taking;
      4.   A detailed description of the property taken;
      5.   Evidence and documentation as to the value of the property taken,
including the date and cost at the date the property was acquired. This should
include any evidence of the value of that same property before and after the
alleged constitutional taking, the name of the party from whom purchased,
including the relationship, if any, between the person requesting a review and
the party from whom the property was acquired;
      6.   Nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected, such as,
but not limited to, fee simple ownership, leasehold interest;
      7.   Terms (including sales price) of any previous purchase or sale of a
full or partial interest in the property in the three (3) years prior to the
date of application;
      8.   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose, including
financing, offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the three (3)
years prior to the date of application;
      9.   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for the
previous three (3) years;
      10.   All information concerning current mortgages or other loans secured
by the property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current interest
rate, remaining loan balance and term of the loan and other significant
provisions, including, but not limited to, right of purchasers to assume the
loan;
      11.   All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous three (3) years;
      12.   All studies commissioned by the petitioner or agents of the
petitioner within the previous three (3) years concerning feasibility of
development or utilization of the property;
      13.   For income producing property, itemized income and expense
statements from the property for the previous three (3) years;
      14.   Information from a title policy or other source showing all
recorded liens or encumbrances affecting the property; and
      15.   The Town Council or their designee may request additional
information reasonably necessary, in their opinion, to arrive at a conclusion
concerning whether there has been a constitutional taking.
   E.   Certification Of Application: An application shall not be deemed to be
"complete" or "submitted" until the reviewing body or official certifies to the
applicant that all the materials and information required above have been
received by the Town. The reviewing body or official shall promptly notify the
applicant of any incomplete application.
   F.   Evidence Considered: The Town Council or an individual or body
designated by them, shall hear all the evidence related to and submitted by the
applicant, Town or any other interested party.
   G.   Approval, Rejection; Time Limit: A final decision on the review shall
be rendered within fourteen (14) days from the date the complete application
for review has been received by the Town Clerk. The decision of the Town
Council regarding the results of the review shall be given in writing to the
applicant and the office, employee, board, commission or council that rendered
the final decision that gave rise to the constitutional takings claim.
   H.   Failure To Review: If the Town Council fails to hear and decide the
review within fourteen (14) days, the decision appealed from shall be presumed
to be approved. (Ord. 95-1, 1-9-1995)
1-10-5: REVIEWING GUIDELINES:
The Town Council shall review the facts and information presented by the
applicant to determine whether or not the action by the Town constitutes a
"constitutional taking", as defined in section
1-10-2 of this chapter. In doing so, they shall consider:
   A.   Whether the physical taking or exaction of the private real property
bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest.
   B.   Whether a legitimate governmental interest exists for the action taken
by the Town.
   C.   Is the property and exaction taken roughly proportionate and reasonably
related, on an individual property basis, both in nature and extent to the
impact caused by the activities that are the subject of the decision being
reviewed. (Ord. 95-1, 1-9-1995)
1-10-6: RESULTS OF REVIEW:
After completing the review, the reviewing person or body shall make a
determination regarding the above issues and where determined to be necessary
and appropriate, shall make a recommendation to the officer, employee, board,
commission or council that made the decision that gave rise to the
constitutional takings claim. (Ord. 95-1, 1-9-1995)
CHAPTER 11
CAMPAIGN FINANCE
SECTION:
1-11-1: Compliance Required
1-11-2: Definitions
1-11-3: Filing Of Disclosure Reports
1-11-4: Time Of Filing
1-11-5: Contents Of Statement
1-11-6: Public Information
1-11-7: Penalty
1-11-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
All candidates for elective Town office shall comply with the campaign finance
disclosure requirements set forth in this chapter and Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-208. (Ord. 01-10, 8-13-2001; amd. 2017 Code)
1-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be applicable to this chapter:
CANDIDATE: Any person who files a declaration of candidacy for an elective
office of the Town of Stockton; or is nominated by a committee, party or
petition; or received contributions or made expenditures or consents to another
person receiving contributions or making expenditures with a view to bringing
about such person's nomination or election to such office; or causes on his/her
behalf, any written material or advertisement to be printed, published,
broadcast, distributed or disseminated, which indicates an intention to seek
such office.
CONTRIBUTION: Monetary and nonmonetary contributions, such as in-kind
contributions and contributions of tangible things, but shall not include
personal services provided without compensation by individuals volunteering
their time on behalf of a candidate.
ELECTION: Both primary and final elections.
EXPENDITURE: A purchase, payment, distribution, loan, advance, deposit or gift
of money or anything of value made for the purpose of influencing the
nomination or election of any candidate. (Ord. 01-10, 8-13-2001)
1-11-3: FILING OF DISCLOSURE REPORTS:
Each candidate for elective office who either receives more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) in campaign contributions or spends more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) in campaign expenses shall file with the Town
Clerk dated and signed financial reports which comply with this chapter. Forms
shall be made available by the Town Clerk's Office. Other forms in
substantially the same format are also acceptable. (Ord. 01-10, 8-13-2001)
1-11-4: TIME OF FILING:
The reports required by this chapter shall be filed at least seven (7) days
before both the primary and general elections, and at least once within thirty
(30) days following the final election. A candidate losing in the primary
election shall file the final report within thirty (30) days of the date of the
primary election. (Ord. 01-10, 8-13-2001)
1-11-5: CONTENTS OF STATEMENT:
   A.   The statements filed seven (7) days before the election shall include:
      1.   A list of each contribution of more than fifty dollars ($50.00)
received by the candidate, and the name of the donor;
      2.   An aggregate total of all contributions of fifty dollars ($50.00) or
less received by the candidate; and
      3.   A list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the
campaign period as of ten (10) days before the date of the election, and the
recipient of each expense.
   B.   The statement filed thirty (30) days after the elections shall include:
      1.   A list of each contribution of more than fifty dollars ($50.00)
received after the cutoff date for the statement filed seven (7) days before
the election, and the name of the donor;
      2.   A total of all contributions of fifty dollars ($50.00) or less
received by the candidate after the cutoff date for the statement filed seven
(7) days before the election;
      3.   A list of all expenditures for political purposes made by the
candidate after the cutoff date for the statement filed seven (7) days before
the election, and the recipient of each expense.
   C.   All contributions and expenditures related to the candidate's candidacy
should be accounted for between the pre- election and post-election statement.
(Ord. 01-10, 8-13-2001)
1-11-6: PUBLIC INFORMATION:
The statements required by this chapter shall be public documents and shall be
available for public inspection and copying during regular business hours.
Appropriate costs may be assessed pursuant to the provisions of the Government
Records Access and Management Act. (Ord. 01-10, 8-13-2001)
1-11-7: PENALTY:
Any candidate who fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter is guilty
of an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 01-10, 8-13-2001; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 12
DISPOSAL OF SIGNIFICANT PARCELS OF REAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-12-1: Definitions
1-12-2: Disposal Of Significant Parcel Of Real Property
1-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
REASONABLE NOTICE: Means, for purposes of this chapter, publication of notice
in a newspaper of general circulation at least fourteen (14) calendar days
prior to a public hearing.
SIGNIFICANT PARCEL OF REAL PROPERTY: Means a single parcel of real property
owned by Stockton Town, regardless of size or value. (Ord. 2018-12-1, 12-13-
2018)
1-12-2: DISPOSAL OF SIGNIFICANT PARCEL OF REAL PROPERTY:
If at any time, the Town intends to dispose of a significant parcel of real
property by conveyance of a fee simple absolute interest in said property, the
Town Clerk shall provide reasonable notice. The Town Council, following the
provision of reasonable notice, shall hold a public hearing to allow for public
comment on the proposed disposition of the real property in question. (Ord.
2018-12-1, 12-13-2018)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Reserved
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Authority Of Town
3-1-3: License Required
3-1-4: Application For License
3-1-5: Fees
3-1-6: Reciprocal Licenses; No Fee Required
3-1-7: Term Of License; Certificate Form; Non-Transferable
3-1-8: Issuance Of Certificate
3-1-9: Separate License For Each Location
3-1-10: Inspections
3-1-11: Code Compliance
3-1-12: Records Maintained
3-1-13: Display Of License
3-1-14: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-1-15: Waiting Period Upon Denial Or Revocation
3-1-16: Appeal Procedure
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
BUILDING DEPARTMENT: The Stockton Building Department and any member working
for the Department.
BUSINESS, TRADE, PROFESSION OR CALLING: Any enterprise carried on for the
purpose of gain or economic profit, except the acts of employees rendering
services for employers.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: The sale of tangible personal property at retail or
wholesale, the manufacturing of goods or property, and the rendering of
personal services for others for consideration by persons engaged in any
profession, trade, craft, business, occupation or other calling, except the
rendering of personal services by an employee to an employer under any contract
of personal management. "Engaging in business" also includes agricultural
industries, but not farming or ranching.
FIRE DEPARTMENT: The Stockton Volunteer Fire Department and any member working
for the Department.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Tooele County Health Department and any member working
for the Department.
PERSON: Any individual, receiver, assignee, trustee in bankruptcy, trust,
estate, firm, partnership, joint venture, club, company, business trust,
corporation, association, society or other group of individuals acting as a
unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, non-profit or otherwise.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: A location maintained or operated by a person within the
Town limits from which a business activity is conducted or transacted. (Ord.
05-01, 1-10-2005)
3-1-2: AUTHORITY OF TOWN:
The Town shall issue licenses and assess and collect license fees. The Town may
audit the records of applicants or licensees to ensure compliance with any
licensing provisions, i.e., State, Federal and local tax. The Town may refuse
to issue a license or may suspend or revoke a license if the applicant or
licensee, for any reason, fails or refuses to cooperate in such an audit. (Ord.
05-01, 1-10-2005)
3-1-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Unless exempted by State, Federal or local law, it shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in business within the Town, whether on a temporary or
permanent basis, without first procuring the license required by this chapter.
(Ord. 05-01, 1-10-2005; amd. 2017 Code)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   General Procedure: Applicants for a business license shall submit a
properly completed application form to the Town Clerk. Unless otherwise
provided, if issuance of the requested license is consistent with applicable
law, the Town Clerk shall approve the application and issue a license.
   B.   Information Required: An application for a license shall be in writing
on a form approved by the Town Clerk. The application shall show all of the
following with respect to all persons, excluding shareholders, or their
equivalent, having a legal or equitable ownership interest in the subject
business or other activity:
      1.   The name, address, date of birth and both home and business
telephone numbers, including the same information with respect to all partners,
officers or directors;
      2.   A description of the business, trade, profession or calling for
which a license is requested, including any assumed or fictitious names which
may be used;
      3.   The address of the property where the subject business, trade or
calling is to be carried on;
      4.   The State tax number of the subject business, trade, profession,
occupation or activity, as well as department of occupation number for the
prescribed business profession or trade; and
      5.   Any other information required by this title, by statute or as
reasonably required by the Town Clerk.
   C.   Misrepresentation: It shall be unlawful to incorrectly or fraudulently
state or misrepresent any fact as part of applying for or retaining a license.
   D.   Changes In Applicant Information: Any changes in the above information
furnished by the applicant shall be forwarded in writing, within ten (10) days
of the change, to the Town Clerk. (Ord. 05-01, 1-10-2005)
3-1-5: FEES:
   A.   License, Payment Of Fee Required: Every person intending to engage in
business shall, before commencing business, obtain a license and pay to the
Town the minimum fee in such amount as established by the Town Council required
for the type of business being conducted.
   B.   Employees Exempt: An employee who is not a partner or owner shall not
be required to pay for an individual license.
   C.   Advance Payment Required: License fees shall be paid in advance for the
term of the license.
   D.   Refunds; Rebates:
      1.   License fees shall not be refunded because the business or activity
for which the same was obtained has been discontinued for any reason.
      2.   No rebate shall be allowed upon any license.
   E.   Changes; Administrative Fee; Inspection: Other than when a business is
renewing their license, if there is a change in the name of the business,
address or owners different than what is shown on the Town Clerk records, an
administrative fee in such amount as established by the Town Council shall be
charged to update the license and a new inspection required.
   F.   Failure To Obtain License: Any person doing business without a license
when a license is required, including circumstance where a license has expired,
been suspended or revoked, shall, in addition to applicable criminal penalty,
be required to pay double of all applicable licensing fees.
   G.   Failure To Pay; Enforcement Fee: If the license renewal fee is not paid
on or before January 15 of the year in which the renewal license is due, there
shall be a business license enforcement fee imposed of twenty five percent
(25%) of the license fee imposed by this section or twenty five dollars
($25.00), whichever is greater. If the license renewal fee is not paid in full
on or before February 15 of the year in which the renewal fee is due, the
business license enforcement fee shall be increased to fifty percent (50%) of
the license fee imposed by this chapter or twenty five dollars ($25.00),
whichever is greater. If the renewal license fee is not paid on or before March
1 of the year in which the renewal fee is due, the business license enforcement
fee shall be increased to one hundred percent (100%) of the license fee imposed
by this chapter.
   H.   Violation; Administrative Penalty: Any person or entity operating a
business in violation of this chapter shall be assessed an administrative
penalty of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), in addition to the fee
specified in subsection G of this section.
   I.   Civil Action: There is no right to continue a licensed activity without
the payment of required fees and penalties. In addition to any criminal action,
the Town may bring civil action to collect any delinquent or unpaid fee. In the
event legal action is filed to collect delinquent or unpaid fees, the debtor
shall pay reasonable attorney fees and costs. (Ord. 05-01, 1-10-2005; amd. 2017
Code)
   J.   Home Occupations: A home occupation business is exempt from the license
fees required by this section unless the combined offsite impact of the
business, together with the primary residential use, is anticipated to, or is
shown to, materially exceed the offsite impact of the primary residential use
alone. The Town Clerk shall determine the anticipation or existence of such
impacts. (Ord. 2019-02, 1-10-2019)
3-1-6: RECIPROCAL LICENSES; NO FEE REQUIRED:
   A.   Businesses Exempt From License Fee: No business license fee shall be
imposed under this chapter upon the following persons or businesses:
      1.   Any person engaged in business solely religious, charitable,
eleemosynary or other types of strictly non-profit purposes who is tax exempt
in such activities under the laws of the United States and the State; nor shall
any business license fee be imposed on any person engaged in a business
specifically exempted from Municipal taxation and fees by the laws of the
United States or the State; nor shall any business license fee be imposed on
any non-profit corporation duly incorporated according to the provisions of the
Utah Non- Profit Corporation and Cooperative Association Act;
      2.   Any insurance company or agent, for so long as the State law exempts
them;
      3.   A property owner having for rent two (2) or more dwellings within
the boundaries of the Town;
      4.   Any sales of merchandise damaged by smoke or fire or bankrupt
concerns, where such stocks have been acquired for merchants of the Town
theretofore, regularly licensed and engaged in business; provided, however, no
such stocks or merchandise shall be augmented by other goods;
      5.   Yard sales. Any person who sells his/her own property which has not
acquired for resale, barter or exchange and who does conduct such sales or act
as a participant by furnishing goods in such a sale not more than four (4) days
in any one calendar month at the same residence;
      6.   A business that is operated only occasionally and by an individual
who is under eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Occupational, Professional Businesses Not Exempt: Occupational and
professional licenses are not reciprocal business licenses. Such licensees
shall also take out a Town business license and pay the required license fee.
(Ord. 2019-03, 2-14-2019)
3-1-7: TERM OF LICENSE; CERTIFICATE FORM; NON-TRANSFERABLE:
Unless otherwise expressly provided, the following shall apply to all licenses
issued pursuant to this chapter:
   A.   Term: All licenses shall be issued for a period of one year, which
shall extend from January 1 to December 31. New license certificates issued
between January 1 and September 30 shall be valid through December 31 of the
year of issuance unless revoked. New license certificates issued between
October 1 and December 31 may be prorated and issued through December 31 of
year following the year of issuance.
   B.   Contents: Every certificate of license shall specify by name of the
person to whom such certificate has been issued, name of the business, type of
business, term of the license with the commencement and expiration dates, and
all conditions and the license number.
   C.   Non-Transferable: No license shall be in any manner assignable or
transferable; neither shall it authorize any licensee to do business at any
other place than indicated in such license. (Ord. 05-01, 1-10-2005; amd. 2017
Code)
3-1-8: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE:
Upon receipt of the license fee, the Town shall issue a license certificate
valid through December 31 of the fee year. (Ord. 05-01, 1-10-2005)
3-1-9: SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH LOCATION:
A separate license must be obtained and a separate fee paid for each place of
business for where a business activity is established. Each license shall
authorize the licensee to engage in only that business activity described in
such license and only the location which is indicated thereon. A location shall
be considered separate if it has been assigned a different mailing or street
address. A business that regularly provides goods or service at various
locations in the Town but has no place of business or mailing address shall
still be required to obtain a business license. (Ord. 05-01, 1-10-2005; amd.
2017 Code)
3-1-10: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Scope: As a condition of the issuance, continuation or renewal of a
business license, the applicant shall, upon reasonable demand, permit
continuing inspections of the place of business or other activity to ensure
compliance with all applicable business, zoning, health, building, fire and/or
safety regulations. The Town Clerk may refuse to issue a license or may suspend
or revoke a license if the applicant or licensee should for any reason fail or
refuse to cooperate with such an inspection. The Fire Department may determine
who may or may not do an in home self-inspection. Self-inspections will only be
those with no chemicals and/or customers coming onto the property for the
conduction of business. The Fire Department will inspect businesses with any
type of chemicals and/or customers coming onto the premises to conduct
business.
   B.   Authority: The Planning Commission, Building Department, Fire
Department and Health Department are hereby authorized and empowered to examine
and inspect all places of business to verify that businesses authorized by the
license issued are carried on in accordance with this chapter and other
applicable laws. They must enter any building or premises during regular
business hours, or, if there are no regular business hours, shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of the building or premises and request entry. If the property owner or other
responsible person refuses entry or inspection of the property, the commission
or department may obtain and execute a search warrant. The commission or
department shall report to the Town Clerk and the Town Attorney all persons
doing business without a license and instances of conduct by any party or
business other than what is covered by the license issued. (Ord. 05-01, 1-10-
2005)
3-1-11: CODE COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Required: Issuance of a business license does not excuse a licensee
from compliance with applicable zoning, building, fire, health or other
regulatory requirements. No license shall be issued without first obtaining in
writing preliminary approval of the business location from the Planning
Commission or a designee indicating that the proposed business complies with
the Town zoning regulations. (Ord. 05-01, 1-10-2005)
   B.   Notice Language: The following shall be printed on the face of each
license:
                     NOTICE
To engage in the business for which the license is issued, you must comply with
all County health codes and Town safety codes, including those relating to
zoning, building and fire safety. If now, or in the future, you do not comply
with these codes, this license does not authorize you to engage in business.
(Ord. 05-01, 1-10-2005; amd. 2017 Code)
3-1-12: RECORDS MAINTAINED:
The Town Clerk shall maintain license registers as a permanent file. All beer
licenses and general business license will be kept and maintained for four (4)
years after issued. Copies of annual license certificates will be maintained
and retained for one year after issued. The index shall state the license
number, names to whom issued, the type of license issued, time of issuance and
the period covered, the place of business, the kind of business to be
transacted, the amount paid and such other information as may be considered
necessary. (Ord. 05-01, 1-10-2005)
3-1-13: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
The licensee, in a conspicuous place easily viewed by the public in which the
licensed business, trade, profession or calling is carried on, shall display
every certificate of license. When such certificate of license has expired, it
shall be removed from public view. A licensee without a fixed place of business
shall carry a certificate of license while engaged in business. It shall be the
duty of each licensee, agent and employee to show the certificate of license
upon demand. (Ord. 05-01, 1-10-2005)
3-1-14: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The Town Clerk may suspend or revoke a license if:
   A.   The license was issued when it should not have been;
   B.   The business fails or refuses to permit or cooperate with an audit or
inspection;
   C.   The business fails to pay the required fees, Personal Property Tax or
other required taxes and fees imposed by the Town, State or Federal government;
   D.   Continuing operation of the licensed activity that would constitute a
nuisance or present danger to the health, general welfare or morals of the
community;
   E.   The business is violating this title or any other applicable law,
including zoning, building or health regulations. (Ord. 05-01, 1-10-2005)
3-1-15: WAITING PERIOD UPON DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
No person who has been denied a license or whose license has been revoked and
no person associated or connected with such a person in the conduct of
business, shall be granted a new license until six (6) months after such denial
or revocation has elapsed. (Ord. 05-01, 1-10-2005)
3-1-16: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Authorized: If a business license is denied, suspended or revoked by
the Town Clerk, or if a penalty is imposed, the applicant or licensee may
appeal such action.
   B.   Filing; Time Limit: Filing of an appeal must be in written notice
within ten (10) days of the date of service of notice of any denial, qualified
approval, suspension, revocation or penalty. Upon receiving the notice of such
appeal, a hearing shall be scheduled before the Town Council within thirty (30)
days from the date of the appeal, unless such time shall be extended for good
cause.
   C.   Public Meeting: The Town Council shall hold a public meeting with a
record of the proceedings being kept, and take such facts and evidence as
necessary to determine whether the denial, qualified approval, suspension,
revocation or penalty was properly under law.
   D.   Burden Of Proof: The burden of proof shall be upon the Town Clerk.
   E.   Decision: After the meeting, the Town Council shall have fourteen (14)
days, unless extended by good cause, to render findings of fact, conclusion of
law and a recommended decision. (Ord. 05-01, 1-10-2005)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Alcoholic Beverage Control Act Adopted
3-2-2: Town Authority
3-2-3: State, County Licenses And Approvals Required
3-2-4: Town Business License Required
3-2-5: Penalty
3-2-1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ACT ADOPTED:
The requirements of Utah Code Annotated governing the sale of alcohol and the
operation of businesses and establishments that sell alcohol, the Utah
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, Utah Code Annotated title 32B, chapters 1
through 16 inclusive, or any successor statute (the "Act"), to the full extent
applicable to and enforceable by the Town, are adopted herein by this
reference. Where enforced by the Town, the penalty for violation of the
provisions of the Act shall be a Class B misdemeanor, unless a lesser penalty
is described in the Act. (Ord. 2013-1, 7-2-2013)
3-2-2: TOWN AUTHORITY:
   A.   The Town is authorized to issue or provide its written consent as may
be required for an applicant to obtain a State issued alcohol license from the
Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission. The Town may issue its consent only
upon majority vote of the Town Council.
   B.   Upon authorization by the Town Council, the Mayor is authorized and
directed to sign and issue such documents as are required by the Utah Alcoholic
Beverage Control Commission, including, without limitation, "Local Consent"
forms promulgated by the State. (Ord. 2013-1, 7-2-2013)
3-2-3: STATE, COUNTY LICENSES AND APPROVALS REQUIRED:
Before any sale of alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption within the
Town, the operator of the business shall first obtain all licenses and
approvals required by the State and the County, including the Health
Department. Said licenses shall be displayed as required by law and shall
otherwise be subject to inspection by the Town. (Ord. 2013-1, 7-2-2013)
3-2-4: TOWN BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
Before engaging in any sale of alcoholic beverages (whether for on-premises or
off-premises consumption) within the Town, the operator of the business shall
first obtain a business license issued by the Town. (Ord. 2013-1, 7-2-2013)
3-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2013-1, 7-2-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Title
3-3A-2: Purpose
3-3A-3: Effective Date
3-3A-4: Tax Imposed; Compliance With Statute; Exclusions
3-3A-5: Penalty
3-3A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF
STOCKTON. (Ord. 90-1, 2-5-1990)
3-3A-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The 48th Session of the Utah Legislature has authorized the counties
and municipalities of the State to enact sales and use tax ordinances imposing
a one percent (1%) tax.
   B.   It is the purpose of this article to conform the sales and use tax of
the Town to the requirements of the Sales and Use Tax Act, Utah Code Annotated
title 59, chapter 12, as currently amended. (Ord. 90-1, 2-5-1990)
3-3A-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become effective as of one minute after twelve o'clock (12:
01) A.M., January 1, 1990. (Ord. 90-1, 2-5-1990)
3-3A-4: TAX IMPOSED; COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTE; EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   Sales Tax: From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied
and there shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible
personal property, services and meals made within the Town at the rate of one
percent (1%).
   B.   Excise Tax: An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in this Town of tangible personal property from any retailer
on or after the operative date hereof at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
sales price of the property.
   C.   Determine Place Of Business: For the purpose of this article, all
retail sales shall be presumed to have been consummated at the place of
business delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination
or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. In the
event a retailer has no permanent place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be as determined under the rules
and regulations prescribed by and adopted by the State Tax Commission. Public
utilities, as defined by Utah Code Annotated title 54, shall not be obligated
to determine the place or places within any county or municipality where public
utilities services are rendered, but the place of sale or the sales tax revenue
arising from such service allocable to the Town shall be determined by the
State Tax Commission pursuant to an appropriate formula and other rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it. (Ord. 90-1, 2-5-1990)
   D.   Statute Adopted: Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as
they are inconsistent with the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax Act, all of
the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended and in
force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales
taxes, are hereby adopted and made a part of this article as though fully set
forth herein. (Ord. 90-1, 2-5-1990; amd. 2017 Code)
   E.   Substitution Of Terms In Statute: Wherever, and to the extent that in
Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, the State of Utah is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this Town shall be substituted
therefor. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of
the name of the Town for the word "State" when that word is used as part of the
title of the State Tax Commission, or of the Constitution of the State, nor
shall the name of the Town be substituted for that of the State in any section
when the result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against the Town, or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State
Tax Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this article.
   F.   Additional License Not Required: If an annual license has been issued
to a retailer under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional
license shall not be required by reason of this article.
   G.   Exclusions: There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or
charged by which the tax is measured:
      1.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State upon a
retailer or consumer;
      2.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use tax
has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality and
any county in the State, under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by that
county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act. (Ord. 90-
1, 2-5-1990)
3-3A-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 90-1, 2-5-1990; amd. 2017 Code)
ARTICLE B. MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Definitions
3-3B-2: Levy Of Tax
3-3B-3: Exemptions From Tax
3-3B-4: Tax Collection Contract With State
3-3B-5: No Effect Upon Existing Franchises; Credit For Franchise Fees
3-3B-6: Statutes Adopted
3-3B-7: Additional License, Reporting Not Required
3-3B-8: Effective Date
3-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
CONSUMER: A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject to
the Municipal energy sales and use tax.
CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   A fee:
      1.   Provided for in a franchise agreement; and
      2.   That is consideration for the franchise agreement; or
   B.   1.   A fee similar to subsection A1 of this definition; or
      2.   Any combination of subsections A1 and A2 of this definition.
DELIVERED VALUE:
   A.   The fair market value of the taxable energy delivered for sale or use
in the Town and includes:
      1.   The value of the energy itself; and
      2.   Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges, services
charges, or other costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in
usable form to each class of customer in the Town.
   B.   "Delivered value" does not include the amount of a tax paid under: 1)
Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, tax collection; 2) Utah Code
Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 2, Local Sales and Use Tax Act; or 3) this
article.
ENERGY SUPPLIER: A person supplying taxable energy, except for persons
supplying a de minimus amount of taxable energy if such persons are excluded by
rule promulgated by the State Tax Commission.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise or an ordinance, contract or agreement
granting a franchise.
FRANCHISE TAX:
   A.   A franchise tax;
   B.   A tax similar to a franchise tax; or
   C.   Any combination of subsections A and B of this definition.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, this State,
any County, City, Municipality, district or other local governmental entity of
the State, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
SALE: Any transfer of title, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in
any manner, of taxable energy for a consideration. It includes:
   A.   Installment and credit sales;
   B.   Any closed transaction constituting a sale;
   C.   Any transaction under which right to acquire, use or consume taxable
energy is granted under a lease or contract and the transfer would be taxable
if an outright sale were made.
STORAGE: Any keeping or retention of taxable energy in this Town for any
purpose, except sale in the regular course of business.
TAXABLE ENERGY: Wind, solar and/or future energy generation and gas and
electricity.
USE:
   A.   The exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to the
ownership or the leasing of the taxable energy.
   B.   Does not include the sale, display, demonstration or trial of the
taxable energy in the regular course of business and held for resale. (Ord. 97-
2, 1997; amd. 2017 Code)
3-3B-2: LEVY OF TAX:
There is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this article, a tax on
every sale or use of taxable energy made within the Town equalling five percent
(5%). This tax shall be known as the Municipal energy sales and use tax. (Ord.
97-2, 1997; amd. 2017 Code)
   A.   The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the taxable
energy to the consumer.
   B.   The tax shall be in addition to any local option sales and use tax
imposed by the Town authorized by Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12,
part 2, the Local Sales and Use Tax Act. (Ord. 97-2, 1997)
3-3B-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
   A.   No exemptions are granted from the Municipal energy sales and use tax,
except as expressly provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b);
notwithstanding an exemption granted by Utah Code Annotated section 59-1-104.
   B.   The following are exempt from the Municipal energy sales and use tax,
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b):
      1.   The sales and use of aviation fuel, motor fuel or special fuel
subject to taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      2.   The sales and use of taxable energy that the Town is prohibited from
taxing under Federal law or the Constitution of the United States or the Utah
Constitution;
      3.   The sales and use of taxable energy purchased or stored in the State
for resale;
      4.   The sales or use of taxable energy to a person if the primary use is
for use in compounding or producing taxable energy or a fuel subject to
taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      5.   Taxable energy brought into the State by a nonresident for the
nonresident's own personal use or enjoyment while within the State, except
taxable energy purchased for use in the State by a nonresident living or
working in the State at the time of purchase;
      6.   The sales or use of taxable energy for any purpose other than use as
a fuel or energy; and
      7.   The sale of taxable energy for use outside the boundaries of the
Town.
   C.   The sale, storage, use or other consumption of taxable energy is exempt
from the Municipal energy sales and use tax levied by this article, provided:
      1.   The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a
Municipal energy sales or use tax levied by another Municipality within the
State authorized by Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 3; and
      2.   The Town is paid the difference between the tax paid to the other
Municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under this article, if the
tax due under this article exceeds the tax paid to the other Municipality.
(Ord. 97-2, 1997)
3-3B-4: TAX COLLECTION CONTRACT WITH STATE:
   A.   On or before the effective date hereof, the Town shall contract with
the State Tax Commission to perform all functions related to the administration
and collection of the Municipal energy sales and use tax, in accordance with
this article. The Mayor is hereby authorized to enter into agreements with the
State Tax Commission that may be necessary to the continued administration and
operation of the Municipal energy sales and use tax enacted by this article.
   B.   An energy supplier shall pay the Municipal energy sales and use tax
revenues it collects from its customers under this article directly to the Town
monthly if:
      1.   The Town is the energy supplier; or
      2.   a. The energy supplier estimates that the Municipal energy sales and
use tax collected annually from its Utah customers equals one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) or more; and
         b.   The energy supplier collects the Municipal energy sales and use
tax.
   C.   An energy supplier paying the Municipal energy sales and use tax
directly to the Town may deduct any contractual franchise fees collected by the
energy supplier qualifying as a credit and remit the net tax less any amount
the energy supplier retains as authorized by Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-
307(4). (Ord. 97-2, 1997)
3-3B-5: NO EFFECT UPON EXISTING FRANCHISES; CREDIT FOR FRANCHISE FEES:
   A.   This article shall not alter any existing franchise agreements between
the Town and energy suppliers.
   B.   There is a credit against the tax due from any consumer in the amount
of a contractual franchise fee paid if:
      1.   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to the Town
pursuant to a franchise agreement in effect on July 1, 1997;
      2.   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately itemized charge; and
      3.   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise. (Ord. 97-2, 1997)
3-3B-6: STATUTES ADOPTED:
   A.   Specified; Exemptions: Except as herein provided, and except insofar as
they are inconsistent with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 10,
chapter 1, part 3, Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Act, as well as this
article, all of the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12,
part 1, as amended, and in force and effect on the effective date hereof,
insofar as they relate to sales and use taxes, and excepting for the amount of
the sales and use taxes levied therein, are hereby adopted and made a part of
this article as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. 97-2, 1997; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Substitution Of Terms: Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code
Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, as amended, the State is named or
referred to as the "taxing agency", the name of the Town shall be substituted,
insofar as is necessary for the purposes of that part, as well as Utah Code
Annotated title 10, chapter 1, part 3, as amended. Nothing in this subsection
shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the Town for the word
"State" when that word is used as part of the title of the State Tax
Commission, or of the Constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of the Town be
substituted for that of the State in any section when the result of such a
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the Town, or any
agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax Commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article.
   C.   Amendments: Any amendments made to Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 1, as amended, which would be applicable to the Town for the
purposes of carrying out this article, are hereby incorporated herein by
reference and shall be effective upon the date that they are effective as a
Utah statute. (Ord. 97-2, 1997)
3-3B-7: ADDITIONAL LICENSE, REPORTING NOT REQUIRED:
No additional license to collect or report the Municipal energy sales and use
tax levied by this article is required, provided the energy supplier collecting
the tax has a license issued under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106. (Ord.
97-2, 1997)
3-3B-8: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article is effective June 30, 1997. The Municipal energy sales and use tax
shall be levied beginning at one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. on
July 1, 1997. (Ord. 97-2, 1997)
ARTICLE C. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDERS TAX
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Definitions
3-3C-2: Levy Of Tax
3-3C-3: Rate
3-3C-4: Rate Limitation And Exemption
3-3C-5: Effective Date Of Levy
3-3C-6: Changes In Rate Or Repeal Of Tax
3-3C-7: Interlocal Agreement For Collection
3-3C-8: Repeal Of Inconsistent Taxes And Fees
3-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
COMMISSION: The State Tax Commission.
CUSTOMER:
   A.   Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, the person who is
obligated under a contract with a telecommunications provider to pay for
telecommunications service received under the contract.
   B.   For purposes of this article:
      1.   The person who is obligated under a contract with a
telecommunications provider to pay for telecommunications service received
under the contract; or
      2.   If the end user is not the person described in subsection B1 of this
definition, the end user of telecommunications service.
   C.   "Customer" does not include a reseller:
      1.   Of telecommunications service; or
      2.   For mobile telecommunications service, of a serving carrier under an
agreement to serve the customer outside the telecommunications provider's
licensed service area.
END USER: A. The person who uses a telecommunications service.
   B.   For purposes of telecommunications service provided to a person who is
not an individual, "end user" means the individual who uses the
telecommunications service on behalf of the person who is provided the
telecommunications service.
GROSS RECEIPTS ATTRIBUTED TO THE TOWN: Those gross receipts from a transaction
for telecommunications services that is located within the Town for the
purposes of sales and use taxes under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12,
Sales and Use Tax Act and determined in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
section 59-12-217.
GROSS RECEIPTS FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The revenue that a
telecommunications provider receives for telecommunications service rendered
except for amounts collected or paid as:
   A.   A tax, fee or charge:
      1.   Imposed by a governmental entity;
      2.   Separately identified as a tax, fee or charge in the transaction
with the customer for the telecommunications service; and
      3.   Imposed only on a telecommunications provider;
   B.   Sales and use taxes collected by the telecommunications provider from a
customer under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, Sales and Use Tax Act;
or
   C.   Interest, a fee or a charge that is charged by a telecommunications
provider on a customer for failure to pay for telecommunications service when
payment is due.
MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: As defined in the Mobile Telecommunications
Sourcing Act, 4 USC section 124.
MUNICIPALITY: Town of Stockton.
PLACE OF PRIMARY USE:
   A.   For telecommunications service other than mobile telecommunications
service, the street address representative of where the customer's use of the
telecommunications service primarily occurs, which shall be:
      1.   The residential street address of the customer; or
      2.   The primary business street address of the customer; or
   B.   For mobile telecommunications service, is as defined in the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act, 4 USC section 124.
SERVICE ADDRESS: Notwithstanding where a call is billed or paid:
   A.   If the location described in this subsection A is known, the location
of the telecommunications equipment:
      1.   To which a call is charged; and
      2.   From which the call originates or terminates.
   B.   If the location described in subsection A of this definition is not
known but the location described in this subsection B is known, the location of
the origination point of the signal of the telecommunications service first
identified by:
      1.   The telecommunications system of the telecommunications provider; or
      2.   If the system used to transport the signal is not a system of the
telecommunications provider, information received by the telecommunications
provider from its service provider; or
   C.   If the locations described in subsection A or B of this definition are
not known, the location of a customer's place of primary use.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER:
   A.   Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, a person that:
      1.   Owns, controls, operates or manages a telecommunications service; or
      2.   Engages in an activity described in subsection A1 of this definition
for the shared use with or resale to any person of the telecommunications
service.
   B.   A person described in subsection A of this definition is a
telecommunications provider, whether or not the Public Service Commission of
Utah regulates:
      1.   That person; or
      2.   The telecommunications service that the person owns, controls,
operates or manages.
   C.   "Telecommunications provider" does not include an aggregator, as
defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-8b-2.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE:
   A.   Telephone service, as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-102,
other than mobile telecommunications service, that originates and terminates
within the boundaries of this State; and
   B.   Mobile telecommunications service, as defined in Utah Code Annotated
section 59-12-102:
      1.   That originates and terminates within the boundaries of one (1)
state; and
      2.   Only to the extent permitted by the Mobile Telecommunications
Sourcing Act, 4 USC section 116 et seq.; or
   C.   An ancillary service as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-
102. (Ord. 04-07, 5-10-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
3-3C-2: LEVY OF TAX:
There is hereby levied a Town telecommunications license tax on the gross
receipts from telecommunications service attributed to this Town. (Ord. 04-07,
5-10-2004)
3-3C-3: RATE:
The rate of the tax levy shall be four percent (4%) of the telecommunication
provider's gross receipts from telecommunications service that are attributed
to the Town, subject to the following:
If the location of a transaction is determined to be other than this Town, then
the rate imposed on the gross receipts for telecommunications services shall be
the lower of: a) the rate imposed by the taxing jurisdiction in which the
transaction is located; or b) the rate for nonmobile telecommunication services
shall be the rate imposed by the Town in which the customer's service address
is located; or for mobile telecommunications service, the rate imposed by the
Town of the customer's primary place of use. (Ord. 04-07, 5-10-2004)
3-3C-4: RATE LIMITATION AND EXEMPTION:
The rate of this levy shall not exceed four percent (4%) of the
telecommunication provider's gross receipts from telecommunications service
attributed to the Town, unless a higher rate is approved by a majority vote of
the voters in this Town that vote in:
   A.   A Municipal general election;
   B.   A regular general election; or
   C.   A local special election. (Ord. 04-07, 5-10-2004)
3-3C-5: EFFECTIVE DATE OF LEVY:
This tax shall be levied beginning the earlier of July 1, 2004, or the first
day of any calendar quarter after a seventy five (75) day period beginning on
the date the Commission received notice pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section
10-1-403 that this Town has enacted this article. (Ord. 04-07, 5-10-2004)
3-3C-6: CHANGES IN RATE OR REPEAL OF TAX:
This article is subject to the requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 10-
1-403. If the tax rate is changed or the tax is repealed, then the appropriate
notice shall be given as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-403.
(Ord. 04-07, 5-10-2004)
3-3C-7: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR COLLECTION:
On or before the effective date hereof, the Town shall enter into the uniform
interlocal agreement with the Commission as described in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-1-405 for the collection, enforcement and administration of this
Town telecommunications license tax. (Ord. 04-07, 5-10-2004)
3-3C-8: REPEAL OF INCONSISTENT TAXES AND FEES:
   A.   Any tax or fee previously enacted by this Town under authority of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-1-203, or Utah Code Annotated title 11, chapter 26,
local taxation of utilities limitation, is hereby repealed.
   B.   Nothing in this article shall be interpreted to repeal any Town
ordinance or fee which provides that the Town may recover from a
telecommunications provider the management costs of the Town caused by the
activities of the telecommunications provider in the rights-of-way of the Town,
if the fee is imposed in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 72-7-102
and is not related to the Town's loss of use of a highway as a result of the
activities of the telecommunications provider in a right-of-way, or increased
deterioration of a highway as a result of the activities of the
telecommunications provider in a right-of-way, nor does this article limit the
Town's right to charge fees or taxes on persons that are not subject to the
Town telecommunications license tax under this article, and locate
telecommunications facilities, as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 72-7-
108, in this Town. (Ord. 04-07, 5-10-2004)
CHAPTER 4
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Title
3-4-2: Purpose And Intent
3-4-3: Application
3-4-4: Definitions
3-4-5: Obscenity; Statutory Provisions
3-4-6: Location And Zoning Restrictions
3-4-7: License Required
3-4-8: Exemptions From License Requirements
3-4-9: Legitimate Artistic Modeling
3-4-10: Business Categories
3-4-11: Employee License Required
3-4-12: Application For License; Disclosures Required
3-4-13: Fees For License
3-4-14: Bond Required
3-4-15: Premises Location And Name
3-4-16: Issuance Conditions
3-4-17: Term Of License
3-4-18: Notice Of Change Of Information
3-4-19: Transfer Limitations
3-4-20: Display Of License
3-4-21: Statement In Advertisements
3-4-22: Regulations And Unlawful Activities
3-4-23: Outcall Services
3-4-24: Adult Businesses
3-4-25: Nude Entertainment Businesses
3-4-26: Seminude Dancing Bars
3-4-27: Nude And Seminude Dancing Agencies
3-4-28: Performers
3-4-29: Stage Requirements
3-4-30: Patrons
3-4-31: Nudity; Defenses To Prosecution
3-4-32: Existing Businesses; Compliance Time Limits
3-4-33: Hours Of Operation
3-4-34: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-4-35: Effect Of License Suspension Or Revocation
3-4-36: Appeal Procedures
3-4-37: Violation; Suit For Injunction
3-4-38: Penalty
3-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESSES AND EMPLOYEE LICENSING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations governing the time, place and manner of operation of
sexually oriented businesses and their employees in the Town that will reduce
the adverse secondary effect that such businesses have upon the community, and
to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the Town.
This chapter shall be construed to protect the governmental interests
recognized by this chapter in a manner consistent with constitutional
protections provided by the Constitutions of the United States and the State of
Utah. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-3: APPLICATION:
This chapter imposes regulatory standards and license requirements on certain
business activities, which are characterized as sexually oriented businesses,
and certain employees of those businesses characterized as sexually oriented
business employees. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the following
meanings:
ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial establishment which sells or
offers adult material for sale or rent, or any other form of consideration,
unless the individual items of adult material comprise less than ten percent
(10%) of the individual items as stock in trade and less than ten percent (10%)
of gross sales, are not publicly displayed, and are not accessible to minors at
the establishment.
ADULT BUSINESS: An adult theater, adult motion picture theater, adult
bookstore, adult video store or any other business which has as one (1) of its
principal purposes the offering of a product or service which is intended to
provide sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to patrons and is
characterized by an emphasis on nudity, seminudity or specified anatomical
areas.
ADULT MATERIAL: Any one (1) or more of the following, regardless of whether it
is new or used:
   A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, photographs,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other visual
representations, recordings or audio matter, the central theme of which depicts
or describes specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
   B.   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with specified sexual activities, except for legitimate, medically
recognized contraception.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment which regularly
features films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. Adult
arcades and adult booths are included within this definition.
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium or portion thereof, or
similar commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear in
a state of nudity or live performances which are characterized by the exposure
of specified anatomical areas.
BUSINESS LICENSE AUTHORITY: The Town Clerk or designee.
EMPLOY: Hiring an individual to work for pecuniary compensation, whether such
person is hired on the payroll of the employer, as an independent contractor,
as an agent or in any other form of employment relationship.
ESCORT: Any person who, for pecuniary compensation, dates, socializes, visits,
consorts with or accompanies or offers to date, consort, socialize, visit or
accompany another or others to or about social affairs, entertainment or places
of amusement or within any place or public or private resort or any business or
commercial establishment or any private quarters. "Escort" shall not be
construed to include persons who provide business or personal services such as
licensed private nurses, aides for the elderly or handicapped, social
secretaries or similar service personnel whose relationship with their patron
is characterized by a bona fide contractual relationship having a duration of
more than twelve (12) hours and who provide a service not principally
characterized as dating or socializing.
ESCORT SERVICE: An individual or entity who, for pecuniary compensation,
furnishes or offers to furnish escorts or provides or offers to introduce
patrons to escorts.
ESCORT SERVICE RUNNER: Any third person, not an escort, who, regardless of
pecuniary compensation, acts in the capacity of an agent or broker for an
escort service, escort or patron by contacting or meeting with escort services,
escorts or patrons at any location within the Town, whether or not such third
person is employed by such escort service, escort or patron, or by another
business or is an independent contractor or self-employed.
NUDE AND SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCY: Any person, agency, firm, corporation,
partnership or any other entity or individual which furnishes, books or
otherwise engages or offers to furnish, book or otherwise engage the service of
a professional dancer licensed pursuant to this chapter for performance or
appearance at a business licensed for nude entertainment, seminude dancing bars
or adult theaters.
NUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: A business, including an adult theater, where
employees perform or appear in the presence of patrons of the business in a
state of nudity or seminudity. A business shall also be presumed to be a nude
entertainment business if the business holds itself out as such a business.
NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY: A state of dress in which the nipple and areola of
the female breast or male or female genitals, pubic region, buttocks or anus
are covered by less than the covering required in the definition of seminude,
or the displaying of any identified anatomical area.
OUTCALL SERVICE: Escorts and businesses which provide, as any portion of their
business, nude or seminude services outside of the premises in any place of
private resort or private quarters by models, dancers or other similar
employees.
PATRON: Any person who contracts with or employs any outcall services or the
customer of any business licensed pursuant to this chapter.
PECUNIARY COMPENSATION: Any commission, fee, salary, tip, gratuity, hire,
profit, reward or any other form of consideration.
PERSON: Any person, unincorporated association, corporation, partnership or
other legal entity.
SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which opaque clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, anus and the nipple and areola of the female breast. In
accordance with the above, at a minimum, the genitals, pubic region and anus
shall be fully covered by an opaque covering no narrower than four inches (4")
wide in the front and five inches (5") wide in the back, which shall not taper
to less than one inch (1") wide at the narrowest point.
SEMINUDE DANCING BARS: Any business licensed by the Town which permits dancing,
modeling or other performance or appearance, however characterized, in a state
of seminudity.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Nude entertainment businesses, outcall services,
adult businesses, seminude dancing bars and nude and seminude dancing agencies,
as defined in this section.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES: Those employees who work on the premises
of the sexually oriented business in activities related to the sexually
oriented portion of the business. This includes all managing employees,
dancers, escorts, models and other similar employees, whether or not hired as
employees, agents or independent contractors. Employees shall not include
individuals whose work is unrelated to the sexually oriented portion of the
business, such as janitors, bookkeepers and similar employees. Sexually
oriented business employees shall not include cooks, serving persons,
bartenders and similar employees, except where they may be managers or
supervisors of the business, or in a state of seminudity or nudity. All persons
employed by an outcall service making outcall meetings under this chapter,
including dancers, escorts, models, guards, escort runners, drivers and other
similar employees, regardless of the employee's state of dress, shall be
considered sexually oriented business employees.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Less than completely and opaquely covered:
   A.   Human male and female genitals, pubic area and anus; or
   B.   The human female breast from the beginning of the areola, papilla or
nipple to the end thereof; or
   C.   The cleavage of the human buttocks; or
   D.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Acts of:
      1.   Masturbation;
      2.   Human sexual intercourse;
      3.   Sexual copulation between a person and a beast;
      4.   Fellatio;
      5.   Cunnilingus;
      6.   Bestiality;
      7.   Pederasty;
      8.   Buggery; or
      9.   Any anal copulation between a human male and another human male,
human female or beast;
   B.   Simulated acts of those activities set forth in subsection A of this
definition performed while in a state of nudity or seminudity.
   C.   Manipulating, caressing or fondling by any person of the human
genitals, pubic area, anus, buttocks or the female breast for the purpose of
arousing or gratifying the sexual desire of a person.
   D.   Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in undergarments, a
mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise
physically restrained on the part of the one so clothed.
TOWN: The Town of Stockton. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993; amd. 2017 Code)
3-4-5: OBSCENITY; STATUTORY PROVISIONS:
Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, nothing in this chapter
shall be deemed to permit or allow the showing or display of any matter which
is contrary to the provisions of any other Town ordinance or other applicable
Federal or State statutes prohibiting obscenity. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-6: LOCATION AND ZONING RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business at any
location within the Town not zoned for such business. Sexually oriented
businesses licensed as adult businesses, nude entertainment businesses or
seminude dancing bars pursuant to this chapter shall only be allowed in areas
zoned for their use according to the zoning ordinances and regulations of the
Town. Businesses licensed as outcall services and nude and seminude dancing
agencies are not limited to the zoning districts. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-7: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented business in the
Town without first obtaining a sexually oriented business regulatory license.
The license shall specify the type of business for which it is obtained. (Ord.
93-1, 5-17-1993; amd. 2017 Code)
3-4-8: EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any sex therapist or similar
individual licensed by the State to provide bona fide sexual therapy or
counseling, licensed medical practitioner, licensed nurse, psychiatrist or
psychologist, nor shall it apply to any educator licensed by the State for
activities in the classroom. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-9: LEGITIMATE ARTISTIC MODELING:
The Town does not intend to unreasonably or improperly prohibit legitimate
modeling which may occur in a state of nudity for purposes protected by the
First Amendment or similar State protections. The Town does intend to prohibit
prostitution and related offenses occurring under the guise of nude modeling.
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 3-4-22K of this chapter, a
licensed outcall employee may appear in a state of nudity before a customer or
patron providing that a written contract for such appearance was entered into
between the customer or patron and the employee at least twenty four (24) hours
before the nude appearance in accordance with the provisions of section
3-4-23 of this chapter. All of the other applicable provisions of this chapter
shall still apply to such nude appearance. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-10: BUSINESS CATEGORIES:
   A.   Scope: It is unlawful for any business premises to operate or be
licensed for more than one (1) category of sexually oriented business, except
that a business may have a license for both outcall services and nude and
seminude dancing agency on the same premises.
   B.   Categories Specified: The categories of sexually oriented businesses
are:
      1.   Outcall services;
      2.   Adult businesses;
      3.   Nude entertainment businesses;
      4.   Seminude dancing bars;
      5.   Nude and seminude dancing agencies. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-11: EMPLOYEE LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Sexually Oriented Businesses: It is unlawful for any sexually oriented
business to employ or for any individual to be employed by a sexually oriented
business in the capacity of a sexually oriented business employee in the Town
unless that employee first obtains a sexually oriented business employee
license from the Town.
   B.   Outcall Services: It is unlawful for any person performing outcall
services to work or perform in the Town unless such person is employed by a
licensed outcall service business or said person is licensed as an outcall
service business. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-12: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; DISCLOSURES REQUIRED:
Before any applicant may be licensed to operate a sexually oriented business or
as a sexually oriented business employee pursuant to this chapter, the
applicant shall submit, in writing, on a form to be supplied by the Town Clerk,
the following: (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993; amd. 2017 Code)
   A.   Name: The correct legal name of each applicant, corporation,
partnership, limited partnership or entity doing business under an assumed
name;
   B.   Partners, Principals: If the applicant is a corporation, partnership or
limited partnership, or individual or entity doing business under an assumed
name, the information required below for individual applicants shall be
submitted for each partner and each principal of an applicant and for each
officer and director. If the sexually oriented business application is for
outcall services, the applicant, in addition of the above, must also submit the
required information for any shareholder (corporate or personal) of more than
ten percent (10%) of the stock of any applicant. Any holding company or any
entity holding more than ten percent (10%) of an applicant shall be considered
an applicant for purposes of disclosure under this chapter;
   C.   Authorized Individuals: All corporations, partnerships or noncorporate
entities included on the application shall also identify each individual
authorized by the corporation, partnership or noncorporate entity to sign the
checks for such corporation, partnership or noncorporate entity;
   D.   Individuals: For all applicants or individuals, the application must
also state:
      1.   Any other names or aliases used by the individual;
      2.   The age, date and place of birth;
      3.   Height;
      4.   Weight;
      5.   Color of hair;
      6.   Color of eyes;
      7.   Present business address and telephone number;
      8.   Present residence and telephone number; (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
      9.   Driver's license or identification number; and (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-
1993; amd. 2017 Code)
      10.   Social security number;
   E.   Age Verification: Acceptable written proof that any individual is at
least eighteen (18) years of age or, in the case of employees to be employed in
businesses where a different age is required, proof of the required age;
   F.   Photographs, Fingerprints: Attached to the form as provided above, two
(2) color photographs of the applicant clearly showing the individual's face,
and the individual's fingerprints on a form provided by the Chief of Police.
For persons not residing in the Town, the photographs and fingerprints shall be
on a form from the law enforcement jurisdiction where the person resides. Fees
for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant directly to
the issuing agency; (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
   G.   Health Certificate: For any individual applicant required to obtain a
sexually oriented business employee license for outcall services as a model,
dancer or other similar employee or escort, or as a nude or seminude
entertainer employed by a nude entertainment business, a certificate from the
County Health Department stating that the individual has, within thirty (30)
days immediately preceding the date of the application, been examined and found
to be free of the following contagious diseases: gonorrhea, syphilis and
chlamydia, and is negative for the AIDS antibody. Said certificate shall be
updated quarterly during the license term by the applicant and submitted to the
Town Clerk. Said certificate shall also be required for the renewal of such
license; (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993; amd. 2017 Code)
   H.   Applicant History: A statement of the business, occupation or
employment history of the applicant for five (5) years immediately preceding
the date of the filing of the application;
   I.   License, Permit History: A statement detailing the license or permit
history of the applicant for the five (5) year period immediately preceding the
date of the filing of the application, including whether such applicant
previously operating or seeking to operate in this or any other County, City,
State or territory has ever had a license, permit or authorization to do
business denied, revoked or suspended, or has had any professional or
vocational license or permit denied, revoked or suspended. In the event of any
such denial, revocation or suspension, state the date and the name of the
acting jurisdiction, and state in full the reasons for the denial, revocation
or suspension, which shall be attached to the application;
   J.   Criminal Records: All criminal convictions or pleas of nolo contendere,
except those which have been expunged, and the disposition of all such arrests
for the applicant, individual or other entity subject to disclosure under this
chapter, for five (5) years prior to the date of the application. This
disclosure shall include identification of all ordinance violations, excepting
minor traffic offenses (any traffic offense designated as a felony shall not be
construed as a minor traffic offense), stating the date, place, nature of each
conviction or plea of nolo contendere and sentence of each conviction or other
disposition, identifying the convicting jurisdiction and sentencing court and
providing the court identifying case numbers or docket numbers. Application for
a sexually oriented business or employee license shall constitute a waiver of
disclosure of any criminal conviction or plea of nolo contendere for the
purposes of any proceeding involving the business or employee license;
   K.   Property Owner Approval: In the event the applicant is not the owner of
record of the real property upon which the business or proposed business is or
is to be located, the application must be accompanied by a notarized statement
from the legal or equitable owner of the possessory interest in the property
specifically acknowledging the type of business for which the applicant seeks a
license for the property. In addition to furnishing such notarized statement,
the applicant shall furnish the name, address and phone number of the owner of
record of the property, as well as the copy of the lease or rental agreement
pertaining to the premises in which the service is or will be located;
   L.   Description Of Services: A description of the services to be provided
by the business, with sufficient detail to allow reviewing authorities to
determine what business will be transacted on the premises, together with a
schedule of usual fees for services to be charged by the licensee, and any
rules, regulations or employment guidelines under or by which the business
intends to operate. This description shall also include:
      1.   The hours that the business or service will be open to the public,
and the methods of promoting the health and safety of the employees and patrons
and preventing them from engaging in illegal activity;
      2.   The methods of supervision preventing the employees from engaging in
acts of prostitution or other related criminal activities;
      3.   The methods of supervising employees and patrons to prevent
employees and patrons from charging or receiving fees for services or acts
prohibited by this chapter or other statutes or ordinances;
      4.   The methods of screening employees and customers in order to promote
the health and safety of employees and customers, prevent the transmission of
disease and prevent the commission of acts of prostitution or other criminal
activity. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-13: FEES FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Nonrefundable Application Fee: Each initial application shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable fee in such amount as established by the Town
Council to defray the costs of processing and investigating the application. If
the application for sexually oriented business is approved and a license is
granted, one-half (1/2) of the application fee shall be applied as credit
towards the annual license fee required for the first year.
   B.   Regulatory License Fees: Each applicant for a sexually oriented
business or employee license shall be required to pay regulatory license fees
in such amounts as established by the Town Council.
   C.   Multiple Licenses: Any individual applying for more than one (1)
license at the same time shall pay the higher of all applicable fees and an
additional fee in such amount as established by the Town Council for each
additional license requested.
   D.   Fees Additional: These fees are regulatory fees and shall be in
addition to the other licenses and fees required to do business in the Town.
(Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993; amd. 2017 Code)
3-4-14: BOND REQUIRED:
Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall post with the
Town Clerk a cash or corporate surety bond payable to the Town in the amount of
fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00). Any fines assessed against the business,
officers or managers for violations of Town ordinances shall be taken from this
bond if not paid in cash within ten (10) days after notice of the fine unless
an appeal is filed as provided by this chapter. In the event the funds are
drawn against the cash or surety bond to pay such fines, the bond shall be
replenished to fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) within fifteen (15) days
of the date of notice of any draw against it. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993; amd. 2017
Code)
3-4-15: PREMISES LOCATION AND NAME:
   A.   Location: It is unlawful to conduct business under a license issued
pursuant to this chapter at any location other than the licensed premises. Any
premises to which telephone calls are automatically forwarded by such business
shall require a separate license.
   B.   Name: It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business
in the Town under any name other than the business name specified in the
application. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-16: ISSUANCE CONDITIONS:
   A.   License Not Issued: The Town Clerk shall submit to the Town Council for
approval the issuance of a license to the applicant within thirty (30) days
after receipt of a complete application, unless the official finds one (1) or
more of the following: (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993; amd. 2017 Code)
      1.   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age or any higher age
if the license sought requires a higher age;
      2.   The applicant is overdue in payment to the Town of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed on the applicant
in relation to a sexually oriented business;
      3.   The applicant has falsely answered a material question or request
for information as authorized by this chapter;
      4.   The applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of
this chapter within two (2) years immediately preceding the application (the
fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the denial);
(Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
      5.   The premises to be used for the business has been disapproved by the
County Health Department, the Town Fire Department, the Town Chief of Police,
the Town Building Inspector or the Town zoning officials as not being in
compliance with applicable laws and ordinances of the Town; (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-
1993; amd. 2017 Code)
      6.   The license fees required by this chapter or by other ordinances
have not been paid;
      7.   All applicable sales and use taxes have not been paid;
      8.   An applicant for the proposed business is in violation of or not in
compliance with this chapter;
      9.   An applicant has been convicted of or has pled nolo contendere to a
crime: involving prostitution; exploitation of prostitution; aggravated
promotion of prostitution; aggravated exploitation of prostitution;
solicitation of sex act; sex acts for hire; compelling prostitution; aiding
prostitution; sale, distribution or display of material harmful to minors;
sexual performance by minors; possession of child pornography; public lewdness;
indecent exposure; any crime involving sexual abuse or exploitation of a child;
sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault; rape; forcible sodomy; forcible
sexual abuse; incest; harboring a runaway child; criminal attempt, conspiracy
or solicitation to commit any of the foregoing offenses or offenses involving
similar elements from any jurisdiction regardless of the exact title of the
offense for which:
         a.   Less than two (2) years have elapsed from the date of conviction
if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense or less than five (5) years if
the convictions are of two (2) or more misdemeanors within the five (5) years;
or
         b.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed from the date of conviction
if the offense is of a felony.
The fact that a conviction being appealed shall have no effect on the
disqualification pursuant to this section. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
   B.   Review; Extension: If any of the reviewing departments of the Town
specified above cannot complete their review of an application for a sexually
oriented business within the thirty (30) day period, the agency or department
may obtain from the Town Clerk an extension of time for their review of no more
than fifteen (15) days. The total time for the Town departments to recommend
the issuance or denial of a license for a sexually oriented business shall not
exceed forty five (45) days from the receipt of a completed application. (Ord.
93-1, 5-17-1993; amd. 2017 Code)
      1.   Upon receipt of an application, all departments required to review
the application shall determine within seven (7) days whether or not the
application is incomplete in items needed for processing. Incomplete
applications shall immediately be returned to the applicant specifying which
items are incomplete.
      2.   The time for processing applications specified in this section shall
begin to run from the receipt of a complete application.
      3.   In the event that a license for a sexually oriented business or an
employee of a sexually oriented business has not been disapproved based on a
complete application within thirty (30) days, or forty five (45) days if an
extension has been granted for the review of an application for a sexually
oriented business, the Town shall issue the license pending completion of the
Town review.
      4.   Any license issued pursuant to subsection B3 of this section may be
revoked by the Town pursuant to the revocation procedures of sections
3-4-34 through
3-4-36 of this chapter if the completed review determines that the license
application should have been denied.
   C.   Conditional Use Approval: Every sexually oriented business requiring
conditional use approval shall be required to obtain such approval before a
sexually oriented business license application will be accepted or processed by
the business licensing authority. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-17: TERM OF LICENSE:
Sexually oriented business and employee licenses issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be valid from the date of issuance through January 1 of the next
calendar year. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-18: NOTICE OF CHANGE OF INFORMATION:
Any change in the information required to be submitted under this chapter for
either a sexually oriented business license or sexually oriented business
employee license shall be given, in writing, to the business license authority
and the Police Department within fourteen (14) days after such change. (Ord.
93-1, 5-17-1993; amd. 2017 Code)
3-4-19: TRANSFER LIMITATIONS:
Sexually oriented business licenses granted under this chapter shall not be
transferable to a new location or to a new owner, except as provided below. It
is unlawful for a license held by an individual to be transferred. It is
unlawful for a corporation, partnership or other noncorporate entity holding a
sexually oriented business license to transfer any part of its business
interest or ownership in excess of ten percent (10%) thereof without filing a
new application and obtaining prior Town approval. If any transfer of the
controlling interest in a business licensee occurs, the license is immediately
null and void and the business shall not operate until a separate new license
has been properly issued by the Town as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 93-1,
5-17-1993)
3-4-20: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business located within the Town to
fail to display the license granted pursuant to this chapter in a prominent
location within the business premises. It is unlawful for any individual
licensed pursuant to this chapter to fail to carry their employee license on
their person at all times while engaged in licensed activities within the Town.
If the individual is nude, such license shall be visibly displayed within the
same room as the employee is performing. It is unlawful to fail to carry or
show the appropriate licenses while engaged in licensed activities within the
Town upon request of the Chief of Police, Town licensing or other enforcement
personnel or health official. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993; amd. 2017 Code)
3-4-21: STATEMENT IN ADVERTISEMENTS:
It is unlawful for any advertisement by the sexually oriented business or
employee to fail to include the Town license number. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-22: REGULATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business or sexually oriented business
employee to:
   A.   Allow persons under the age of eighteen (18) years, or the age of
twenty one (21) years if required by applicable liquor ordinance, on the
licensed premises, except that in adult businesses which exclude minors from
less than all of the business premises, minors shall not be permitted in
excluded areas;
   B.   Allow, offer or agree to conduct any outcall business with persons
under the age of eighteen (18) years;
   C.   Except for seminude dancing bars, to allow, offer or agree to allow any
alcohol being stored, used or consumed on or in the licensed premises;
   D.   Allow the outside door to the premises to be locked while any customer
is in the premises;
   E.   Allow, offer or agree to gambling on the licensed premises;
   F.   Allow, offer or agree to any sexually oriented business employee
touching any patron or customer during a performance, except that employees of
outcall services and patrons may touch; provided, that such touching does not
violate the provisions of subsection 3-4-23D of this chapter. It is further
provided that specified sexual activities between patrons and employees are
also prohibited;
   G.   Allow, offer or agree to or engage in the illegal possession, use, sale
or distribution of controlled substances on the licensed premises;
   H.   Allow sexually oriented business employees to possess, use, sell or
distribute controlled substances while engaged in the activities of the
business;
   I.   Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor or committing activities harmful to a
minor to occur on the licensed premises or, in the event of an outcall employee
or business, the outcall employee committing, offering or agreeing to commit
prostitution, attempting to commit prostitution, soliciting prostitution,
soliciting a minor or committing activities harmful to a minor;
   J.   Allow, offer, commit or agree to any specified sexual activity or sex
act as validly defined by Town ordinances or State statute;
   K.   Allow, offer or agree to any outcall services employee appearing before
any customer or patron in a state of nudity without first complying with the
provision of section
3-4-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-23: OUTCALL SERVICES:
It unlawful for any business or employee providing outcall services contracted
for in the Town to fail to comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Contract Requirements:
      1.   All businesses licensed to provide outcall services pursuant to this
chapter shall provide to each patron a written contract in receipt of pecuniary
compensation for services. The contract shall clearly state the address where
the services are to be performed, the type of services to be performed, the
length of time such services shall be performed, the total amount such services
shall cost the patron, and any special terms or conditions relating to the
services to be performed.
      2.   The contract need not include the name of the patron; however, the
contract shall clearly provide the patron the opportunity to give the patron's
name and address to the business for purposes of contact tracing by the County
Health Department, if the patron so desires, in the event the outcall services
employee contracted for subsequently tests positive for a sexually transmitted
disease on a quarterly test required pursuant to the provisions of subsection
3-4-12G of this chapter. The contract shall clearly state whether the patron
accepted or declined said opportunity. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
      3.   The business licensee shall keep and maintain a copy of each written
contract entered into pursuant to this section for a period of not less than
one (1) year from the date of provision of services thereunder. The contracts
shall be numbered and entered into a register, which shall also be kept for one
(1) year, listing the contract number, date, names of all employees involved in
the contract and pecuniary compensation paid. The register shall be made
available to the Chief of Police, County Sheriff and County Health Officials
for inspection during normal operating hours. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993; amd. 2017
Code)
   B.   Office Maintained: All outcall businesses licensed pursuant to this
chapter shall maintain an open office at which the licensee or licensee's
designated agent may be personally contacted during all hours outcall employees
are working. The address and phone number of the license location shall appear
and be included in all patron contracts and published advertisements. Outcall
businesses with premises licensed and located within the Town shall not provide
or allow private rooms or booths where the patrons may meet with outcall
employees, whether at the licensed premises or at any other location, nor shall
patrons meet outcall employees at the business premises.
   C.   Prohibited Advertising: Outcall services shall not advertise in such a
manner that would lead a reasonably prudent person to conclude that specified
sexual activities would be performed by the outcall employee.
   D.   Prohibitions: During an outcall appearance, it is unlawful:
      1.   To appear nude or seminude in the presence of persons under the age
of eighteen (18);
      2.   To allow, offer or agree to any touching of the outcall employee
appearing nude or seminude by the patron or other persons present to view said
performance;
      3.   To allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor or committing activities harmful to a
minor;
      4.   To allow, offer, commit, permit or agree to any specified sexual
activity or any other sex act as validly defined by ordinances or State
statute, or to remain in the presence of or continue an outcall performance if
a patron or other person engages in any specified sexual activity sex act;
      5.   For an outcall employee to be within five feet (5') of any other
person while nude or seminude. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-24: ADULT BUSINESSES:
   A.   Design Of Premises; Diagram Required: In addition to the general
requirements of disclosure for a sexually oriented business, any applicant for
a license as an adult business shall also submit a diagram, drawn to scale, of
the premises of the license. The design and construction, prior to granting a
license or opening for business, shall comply with all applicable building code
requirements, including the obtaining of applicable building permit and shall
conform to the following:
      1.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms.
      2.   Restrooms may not contain any video reproduction equipment or any of
the business merchandise. Signs shall be posted requiring only one (1) person
being allowed in the restroom per stall and only one (1) person in any stall at
a time, and requiring that patrons shall not be allowed access to manager's
station areas.
      3.   For businesses which exclude minors from the entire premises, all
windows, doors and other apertures to the premises shall be darkened or
otherwise constructed to prevent anyone outside the premises from seeing the
inside of the premises. Businesses which exclude minors from less than all of
the premises shall be designed and constructed so that minors may not see into
the area from which they are excluded.
      4.   The diagram required shall not necessarily be a professional
engineer's or architect's blueprint; however, the diagram must show marked
internal dimensions, all overhead lighting fixtures, and ratings for
illumination capacity.
   B.   Unobstructed Views: It shall be the duty of the licensee and the
licensee's employees to ensure that the views from the manager's station in
subsection A of this section remain unobstructed by any doors, walls,
merchandise, display racks or any other materials, at all times that any patron
is present in the premises and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to
any area of the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons
will not be permitted.
   C.   Illumination: The premises shall at all times be equipped and operated
with overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every
place to which patrons are permitted access at an illumination of not less than
one (1) foot-candle, measured at floor level. It shall be the duty of the
licensee and the licensee's employees present on the premises to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-25: NUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES:
   A.   Design Of Premises:
      1.   It is unlawful for business premises licensed for nude entertainment
to:
         a.   Permit a bed, sofa, mattress or similar item in any room on the
premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception room open to the
public or in any office to which patrons are not admitted, and except that in
an adult theater such items may be on the stage as part of a performance;
         b.   Allow any door on any room used for the business, except for the
door to an office to which patrons shall not be admitted, outside doors and
restroom doors to be lockable from the inside;
         c.   Provide any room in which the employee or employees and the
patron or patrons are alone together without a separation by a solid physical
barrier at least three feet (3') high and eighteen inches (18") wide. The
patron or patrons shall remain on one (1) side of the barrier and the employee
or employees shall remain on the other side of the barrier.
      2.   Adult theaters shall also require that the performance area shall be
separated from the patrons by a minimum of five feet (5'), which separation
shall be delineated by a physical barrier at least three feet (3') high.
   B.   Location Restriction: It is unlawful for any business licensed for nude
entertainment to be located within five hundred feet (500') of a school, church
or business licensed for the sale or consumption of alcohol. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-
1993)
3-4-26: SEMINUDE DANCING BARS:
   A.   Operation Prerequisites: It is unlawful for any business licensed for
the sale or consumption of alcohol pursuant to Town ordinances to:
      1.   Allow any person on the premises to dance, model or be or perform in
a state of seminudity without first obtaining a license pursuant to this
chapter;
      2.   Allow any person on the premises to dance, model or be or perform in
a state of nudity or expose any specified anatomical area.
   B.   Performer Restrictions: It is unlawful for any person to perform or
appear in a state of seminudity as a professional dancer, model, performer or
otherwise on the premises of a business licensed as a seminude dancing bar,
either gratuitously or for compensation, unless that person is licensed as a
sexually oriented business employee. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-27: NUDE AND SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCIES:
   A.   Business License Required: It is unlawful for any individual or entity
to furnish, book or otherwise engage the services of a professional dancer,
model or performer to appear in a state of seminudity or nudity for pecuniary
compensation in or for any nude entertainment business, adult theater or
seminude dancing bar licensed pursuant to this chapter unless such agency is
licensed pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Employee License Required: It is unlawful for any individual or entity
to furnish, book or otherwise engage or permit any person to perform as a
professional dancer, model or performer in a state of seminudity or nudity,
either gratuitously or for compensation, in or for any business licensed or
required to be licensed pursuant to this chapter unless such person is licensed
pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-28: PERFORMERS:
   A.   Prohibited Activities: It is unlawful for any professional dancer,
model or performer during a performance in any establishment requiring a
license as a seminude dancing bar pursuant to this chapter:
      1.   To touch in any manner any other person;
      2.   To throw any object or clothing off the stage area;
      3.   To accept any money, drink or any other object directly from any
person;
      4.   To allow another person to touch such performer or to place any
money or object on the performer or within the costume or person of the
performer;
      5.   For the performer to place anything within the costume or adjust or
move the costume while performing so as to render the performer in a state of
nudity; or
      6.   To engage in any specified sexual activity.
   B.   Costume Requirements: It is unlawful for performers in seminude dancing
bars to fail to comply with the following costume requirements:
      1.   Performers shall at all times be costumed during performances in a
manner not to violate any Town ordinance concerning disorderly or obscene
conduct, and such performers shall not perform or conduct themselves in such a
manner as to violate the provision of any Town ordinance. No performer shall
appear in any business required to be licensed as a seminude dancing bar during
a performance or appearance with less than opaque clothing which meets the
definition of seminude and, in the case of a female performer, covers the
areola and nipple of such performer in a shape and color other than the natural
shape and color of the nipple and areola.
      2.   While on the portion of a business licensed as seminude dancing bar
used by patrons, performers shall be dressed in opaque clothing covering the
performer's buttocks and pubic area and, in the case of a female, the breast
and nipples. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-29: STAGE REQUIREMENTS:
It is unlawful for any performer in a business licensed as a seminude dancing
bar to appear in costume other than on a stage which shall be at least three
feet (3') from the portion of the premises on which patrons are allowed and
which shall be separated from patrons by a solid barrier or railing, the top of
which shall be at least two and one-half feet (21/2') from the floor. (Ord. 93-
1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-30: PATRONS:
It is unlawful for any person or any patron of any seminude dancing bar or nude
entertainment business during a performance to touch in any manner a model,
dancer or performer, to place any money or object on or within the costume or
person of any performer, or to give or offer to give to any such performer any
drinks, money or object, except that money may be placed on the barrier which
shall not be picked up by the performer except by hand after the performance.
(Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-31: NUDITY; DEFENSES TO PROSECUTION:
It is a defense to prosecution or violation under this chapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   A.   By a proprietary school licensed by the State or a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   B.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation. (Ord. 93-1, 5-
17-1993)
3-4-32: EXISTING BUSINESSES; COMPLIANCE TIME LIMITS:
   A.   Specified: The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all
persons and businesses described herein, whether the herein described
activities were established before or after the effective date hereof and
regardless of whether such persons and businesses are currently licensed to do
business in the Town:
      1.   All such persons and businesses requiring outcall service licenses
shall have thirty (30) days from the effective date hereof or until their
current license expires, whichever is first in time, to comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
      2.   All seminude dancing bars and employees thereof requiring licenses
and nude and seminude dancing agency licenses shall have sixty (60) days from
the effective date hereof or until their license must be renewed, whichever is
first, to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   All nude entertainment businesses shall have sixty (60) days from
the effective date hereof or until their current license must be renewed,
whichever is first, to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   All adult businesses shall have sixty (60) days from the effective
date hereof or until their current license must be renewed, whichever is first
in time, to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Year 1993: For the year 1993, each business required by this chapter to
be licensed as a sexually oriented business shall be credited against the fees
required by this chapter with the regulatory license fees paid for the current
1993 license. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-33: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Businesses: It is unlawful for any operator of a nude entertainment
business, adult business, seminude dancing bar or nude and seminude dancing
agency to allow such establishment to remain open for business or to permit any
employee to engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale,
solicit a sale, provide a service or solicit a service between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. of any particular day.
   B.   Employees: It is unlawful for any employee of a nude entertainment
business, adult business, seminude dancing bar or nude and seminude dancing
agency to engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit
a sale, provide a service or solicit a service between the hours of one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. of any particular day. (Ord. 93-1, 5-
17-1993)
3-4-34: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authorized: In the event a licensed sexually oriented business is
operating in violation of a building, fire, health or zoning statute, code,
ordinance or regulation, whether Federal, State or local, the Town shall notify
the licensee of the violation and shall allow the licensee ten (10) calendar
days to correct that violation. If the licensee fails to correct the violation
within ten (10) calendar days, the Town shall schedule a license hearing. If it
is determined that a licensed establishment is in violation of a building,
fire, health or zoning statute, code, ordinance or regulation, whether Federal,
State or local, the Town shall forthwith suspend the license and shall notify
the licensee of the suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect until the
department or division responsible for enforcing the applicable ordinance
giving rise to the suspension notifies the Town Clerk in writing that the
violation of the provision in question has been corrected. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-
1993; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Notice; Violations: The Town may issue a notice suspending, placing on
probation or revoking a sexually oriented business or employee license granted
under this chapter if a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
      1.   Violated or is not in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter;
      2.   Refused to allow any inspection of the premises of the sexually
oriented business specifically authorized by this chapter, or by any other
statute or ordinance;
      3.   Failed to replenish the cost bond as provided in this chapter (such
a suspension shall extend until the bond has been replenished);
      4.   Given materially false or misleading information in obtaining the
license;
      5.   Knowingly operated the sexually oriented business or worked under
the employee license during the period when the business or employee license
was suspended;
      6.   Committed an offense which would be grounds for denial of a license
for which the period of civil disability has not elapsed;
      7.   Become delinquent in payment to the Town for ad valorem taxes or
sales taxes related to the sexually oriented business.
   C.   Effective Date: Suspension or revocation shall take effect within ten
(10) days of the issuance of notice, unless an appeal is filed as provided by
this chapter.
   D.   Appeal No Effect On Revocation: The fact that a conviction is being
appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the license.
   E.   Suspension: Upon violation of any provision of subsection B of this
section, a sexually oriented business license, if not revoked, shall be
suspended for a minimum of sixty (60) days. Upon a second violation of any of
the provisions of subsection B of this section within twenty four (24) months
of the initial violation, the license, if not revoked, shall be suspended for a
minimum period of ninety (90) days. Upon a third violation within thirty six
(36) months of the original violation of subsection B of this section, the
sexually oriented business license shall be revoked for a period of one (1)
year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this subsection requires that a
sexually oriented business license be suspended before it can be revoked by the
Town. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-35: EFFECT OF LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   Suspension: If a license issued pursuant to this chapter is suspended,
all operations within the licensed establishment shall cease for the period of
the suspension, and no other person shall be allowed to operate at that
location during the suspension period.
   B.   Revocation: When a license issued pursuant to this chapter is revoked,
the revocation shall continue for one (1) year from its effective date, and the
licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business or employee license
for one (1) year from the date of such revocation. The premises may be
relicensed for a business activity during the one (1) year revocation, but no
other sexually oriented business license shall be issued for the premises
during the period of revocation. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-36: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Authorized: If the license is denied or is approved with
qualifications, or if a notice of suspension, revocation or citation of a civil
fine is imposed, the applicant or licensee may file an appeal with the business
licensing authority.
   B.   Time Limit For Filing: Filing of an appeal must be within ten (10) days
of the date of service of the notice of any denial, qualified approval,
suspension, revocation or civil fine. Upon receiving the notice of such appeal,
the business licensing authority shall schedule a hearing before a designated
Hearing Officer within twenty (20) days from the date of the appeal unless such
time shall be extended for good cause.
   C.   Hearing: The Hearing Officer shall hold a public hearing on the record
and take such facts and evidence as necessary to determine whether the denial,
qualified approval, suspension, revocation or civil fine was proper under the
law.
   D.   Burden Of Proof: The burden of proof shall be on the Town.
   E.   Findings: After the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall have seven (7)
working days, unless extended for good cause, in which to render findings of
fact, conclusions of law and a recommended decision to the Town Council.
   F.   Objections: Either party may object to the recommendation of the
Hearing Officer by filing the party's objection and reasons, in writing, to the
Town Council within seven (7) days following the recommendation. In the event
the Hearing Officer recommends upholding a denial, suspension or revocation,
the license shall be immediately suspended and shall remain suspended until any
subsequent appeal is decided. If no objections are received within the seven
(7) days, the Town Council may immediately adopt the recommendation of the
Hearing Officer.
   G.   Consideration Of Objections: If objections are received, the Town
Council shall have ten (10) working days to consider such objections before
issuing its final decision. The Town Council may, in its discretion, take
additional evidence or require written memorandum on issues of fact or law. The
standard by which the Town Council shall review the decision of the Hearing
Officer is whether substantial evidence exists in the record to support the
Hearing Officer's recommendation.
   H.   Judicial Review: An applicant aggrieved by the decision of the Town
Council shall have judicial review of such decision pursuant to Rule 65B of the
Utah Rules of Civil Procedure, or any other applicable ordinance, statute or
rule providing for such review. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-37: VIOLATION; SUIT FOR INJUNCTION:
An entity or individual who operates or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business without a valid license or who employs or is employed as an
employee of a sexually oriented business or who operates such a business or
functions as such an employee in violation of the provisions of this chapter is
subject to a suit for injunction in addition to the civil and criminal
violations provided herein and any other remedy available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993)
3-4-38: PENALTY:
In addition to revocation or suspension of a license as provided in this
chapter, the violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a Class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate
offense. (Ord. 93-1, 5-17-1993; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 5
WRECKING YARDS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Location Requirements For New Wrecking Yards
3-5-2: License And State Permit Required
3-5-3: Yard Requirements
3-5-4: Existing Wrecking Yards
3-5-1: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW WRECKING YARDS:
New businesses applying for a wrecking yard license must be located in an area
zoned as industrial and must meet all State requirements for the location.
(Ord. 2000-6, 7-10-2000; amd. 2017 Code)
3-5-2: LICENSE AND STATE PERMIT REQUIRED:
Along with obtaining a local business license, the new business must obtain a
State wrecking yard permit from the State Transportation Department and must
meet all State requirements. (Ord. 2000-6, 7-10-2000)
3-5-3: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Vehicles may not be stacked one (1) upon another and an eight foot (8')
chainlink fence with privacy slats must be installed around the yard area.
(Ord. 2000-6, 7-10-2000)
3-5-4: EXISTING WRECKING YARDS:
Existing wrecking yards will be grandfathered in at their present location with
the following requirements:
   A.   Stacking Of Vehicles: Vehicles must not be stacked one (1) upon
another.
   B.   Expansion: The present site may not be expanded unless it is in an area
zoned as industrial and meets all the requirements set forth for a new wrecking
yard. (Ord. 2000-6, 7-10-2000)
   C.   Fencing Required: A minimum six foot (6') chainlink fence with privacy
slats must be installed around the yard areas as a visual barrier. Any other
visible barrier must be approved by the Planning Commission. (Ord. 2000-6, 8-
13-2001; amd. 2017 Code)
   D.   Failure To Obtain Required Licenses: Failure to get a State and local
license for six (6) consecutive months shall cause this grandfather clause to
be null and void and the business will be dissembled and moved to the proper
area within ninety (90) days.
   E.   Ownership Changes: If a business changes ownership, this grandfather
clause immediately becomes null and void. (Ord. 2000-6, 7-10-2000)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Collection Of Garbage
4-1-3: Service Charges
4-1-4: Time And Place Of Pick Up
4-1-5: Regulations And Requirements
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
COMMERCIAL GARBAGE: Garbage produced in commercial establishments, public or
quasi-public institutions or establishments, including restaurants, hotels,
motels and similar establishments.
COMMUNITY WASTE: Lawn cuttings, clippings from bushes and shrubs, leaves and
trees, and tree branches.
CONTAINER OR REGULATION CONTAINER: The automated refuse collection container
provided by the Town of Stockton.
GARBAGE: Waste from the preparation, handling, storing, cooking or consumption
of food and food products.
REFUSE: All waste matter, except garbage, attending or resulting from the
occupancy of residences, apartments, hotels or other places of dwelling and
from the operation of a business. "Refuse" shall not be deemed to include
industrial waste or waste matter resulting from the construction, demolition or
repair of a building or other structure.
RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE: Garbage produced in places of private residences and
dining halls not open to the public. (2017 Code)
4-1-2: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE:
   A.   Residential: The Town, or its agent, shall collect, remove and dispose
of all residential garbage, the removal of which is not otherwise provided for
by the establishment or institution hereunder provided. All garbage and refuse
shall be collected, removed and disposed of with such frequency and in such
manner as the Town Council may from time to time establish by regulation.
   B.   Commercial, Residential Not Mixed: Commercial and residential garbage
shall not be mixed in the same vehicle and transported to point of disposal.
Commercial garbage disposal shall not be a normal function of the Town.
   C.   Hauling: Except as otherwise expressly permitted by this chapter, no
garbage or refuse shall be moved or hauled away or transported upon the streets
or public ways of the Town, except by the Town or its agent, and except by
authorized persons hauling commercial garbage or refuse as hereinafter
provided. It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person, except as
permitted in this chapter, to haul or remove garbage or refuse in the Town.
   D.   Commercial Garbage: Commercial establishments, public or quasi-public,
institutions and establishments creating commercial garbage, may remove
commercial garbage themselves or may employ the services of authorized
contractors to remove commercial garbage. Haulage of refuse must be done in the
manner, at such times and in such vehicles as may be approved for such purposes
as the Town Council may from time to time by regulation provide.
   E.   Charge Not Eliminated: Nothing in this section shall be construed as
eliminating the charge made for garbage service. (2017 Code)
4-1-3: SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Required: All residents within the Town shall pay monthly garbage
service charges in such amounts as specified in the comprehensive fee schedule.
   B.   Vacancies: If a dwelling unit or a place of business has remained
vacant for an entire month, the owner or possessor of the site may make
arrangements with the Town Clerk for no garbage collection charges during the
continued vacancy of the premises.
   C.   Method Of Payment Of Service Charges: The garbage service charges
imposed by this section shall be added to the charge made for water furnished
through the water system of the Town, and shall be billed and collected in the
same manner as water service charges are billed and collected. (2017 Code)
4-1-4: TIME AND PLACE OF PICK UP:
   A.   Placement: All garbage and refuse subject to garbage collection by the
Town shall be placed at a pick up point at or near the premises designated from
time to time by regulation adopted by the Town Council. The container must be
placed by seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on Thursday, the designated day of
collection (holidays may cause the day to be adjusted from time to time,
notification will be announced by notice contained within the water bill), and
at such time or times as shall be designated by regulations of the Town
Council. All garbage containers placed for collection must be at least four
feet (4') apart from any other garbage container or other object. Any container
placed too close may be denied collection.
   B.   Day Of Collection: Until otherwise provided by regulation, garbage and
refuse must not be set out upon the street for collection any more than the
prior evening of the day before collection and must be set out on the day of
collection before the hour of collection designated by regulation of the Town
Council. The container shall be placed at the edge of the street with the
wheels of the container facing away from the street. The lid of the container
must be completely closed. In cases of construction in the curbside area or in
cases of other obstructions, the container shall be placed for collection in
the nearest accessible point of access to the regular point of collection. The
point of collection must be clear of trees, overhead wires, poles, mailboxes,
cars and any other overhead obstruction or at grade obstruction (mailboxes and
fences) which would prevent or interfere with the mechanical lifting mechanism
from grasping, raising and emptying the container without the driver having to
reposition the collection vehicle and allowing the driver to pull directly away
to the next stop without backing the vehicle. The collector (service provider)
will not collect any residential refuse which is not contained within the
garbage container.
   C.   Removal Of Empty Receptacles: All empty receptacles must be removed
from the street as soon as practicable after being emptied, and in every case,
must be removed from the street the same day they are emptied. Receptacles
shall not be permitted to remain on the street longer than may be necessary for
the removal of the contents. (2017 Code; amd. Ord. 2022-01, 3-10-2022)
4-1-5: REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Accumulation Of Garbage Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
to accumulate garbage or refuse, or cause garbage or refuse to be deposited
upon any street or alley, or upon any premises in the Town, without express
permission from the Town. The Town may permit the feeding or processing of
garbage or refuse upon premises properly equipped and maintained so as to
prevent the creation of a nuisance or a hazard to health, or permit the
depositing of ashes and other dry material for filling purposes at such places
as the Town may designate and under such restrictions as the Town Council may
by regulation impose. Additionally, the Town may grant to any person permission
for sorting, bailing and marketing trade waste upon premises properly equipped
and maintained.
   B.   Containers: Approved garbage containers consist of ninety (90) to one
hundred five (105) gallon containers designed specifically for automated
collection, equipped with wheels for easy movement by Town users. All
containers have permanently attached, tightfitting lids.
   C.   Closing Of Garbage Containers Required: All garbage and market waste
must be placed in securely tied bags of such quality as to prevent waste from
spilling or blowing out. All bags must be placed in approved containers and the
container shall be tightly closed in such a manner as to prevent offensive
odors or flies.
   D.   Disposal Of Community Waste: From time to time the Town may have a
"Town clean up" and provide a location and receptacle for some small
construction debris and green waste. The Town will provide a time and location
for such events.
   E.   Burning Refuse Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to burn
garbage, market waste, manure or other refuse or rubbish in the open air or in
any furnace or stove within the Town.
   F.   Dumping Refuse Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit or dump garbage, ashes, market waste, paper boxes, cartons,
trade waste, manure or night soil, or any other refuse, upon any lot within the
Town, whether such lot is occupied or vacant and whether such person so
placing, depositing or dumping such refuse is the owner, tenant, occupant or
lessor thereof, or has the same under his jurisdiction and control.
   G.   Limitations Upon Dumping: Dumping waste and garbage shall be permitted
only in such places as are designated by the Town Council. Dumping shall be
subject to such rules and regulations as may be formulated by the Town Council.
   H.   Regulations Adopted: The Town Council may adopt such regulations as in
its opinion are necessary to implement this chapter and its objectives.
   I.   Authority:
      1.   Utah Code Annotated sections 10-8-84 and 10-3-702 provide that the
Town may pass all ordinances and rules and make all regulations not repugnant
to law necessary for carrying into effect or discharging the powers and duties
conferred by State law any ordinance necessary and proper to provide for the
safety and preserve the health and promote the prosperity of the Town and the
inhabitants thereof; and
      2.   The Utah Solid Waste Management Act provides, among other things,
that the Governing Body of a public entity may:
         a.   Regulate the collection, transportation and disposition of all
solid waste within its jurisdiction;
         b.   Require that all such solid waste generated within its
jurisdiction be delivered to a solid waste management facility;
         c.   Control the right to collect, transport and dispose of all solid
waste generated within its jurisdiction. (2017 Code; amd. Ord. 2022-01, 3-10-
2022)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Findings And Purpose
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Code Enforcement Officer
4-2-4: Prohibited Nuisances; Exception For Wrecking Yards
4-2-5: Procedure
4-2-6: Proof Of Service
4-2-7: Hearing
4-2-8: Failure To Comply
4-2-9: Itemized Statement
4-2-10: Collection
4-2-11: Penalty
4-2-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
The Town Council has found that the unabated accumulation of weeds, unlicensed
motor vehicles and other nuisances within the Town have created a potential
danger to health, in that the said vehicles are a source of contamination or
pollution to property and are a breeding place or habitation for insects,
rodents and other forms of life deleterious to human habitation and are
unsightly and deleterious to human habitation and their surroundings. Motor
vehicles are expressly declared to be unsightly or deleterious when they are
junked, wrecked, unlicensed, abandoned or inoperable and not kept within an
enclosed structure or carport. Therefore, this chapter is for the purpose of
establishing a means whereby the Town may cause that said weeds, unlicensed
vehicles and other nuisances be regulated and removed, or abated, when
necessary. (Ord. 98-2, 5-4-1998)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle as defined in Utah Code Annotated
section 41-6a-1408.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle which is mechanically not
functionable for a period of over thirty (30) days. The thirty (30) day period
may be extended upon proof by the owner of ongoing restoration or other
justifiable reason for the extension.
JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE: A motor vehicle which has outlived its usefulness in its
original form and which is commonly gathered up and sold to be converted into
another product, either of the same or of a different kind.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motorized vehicle which initially was designed or
constructed to be self-propelled.
OTHER NUISANCES: Junk and debris as interpreted by the Code Enforcement
Officer.
UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle which is not currently registered
or licensed by the State of Utah; provided, that such exempt vehicle is
operable. "Unlicensed motor vehicle" does not include motor vehicles kept or
stored at an approved impound lot or commercial storage yard.
WRECKED MOTOR VEHICLE: A motor vehicle which has been destroyed, disabled or
seriously damaged. (Ord. 98-2, 5-4-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
4-2-3: CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The Office of Code Enforcement Officer is hereby created for the purpose of
administering the provisions of this chapter and the powers delegated to the
Town by Utah Code Annotated section
10-11-1 et seq., subject to such control and review as the Mayor may from time
to time direct. Until such time as the Mayor may otherwise appoint a Code
Enforcement Officer, the Building Inspector, Fire Chief and the Chief of Police
shall perform the function of Code Enforcement Officers. The Mayor may appoint
such Assistant Code Enforcement Officers and delegate to them such powers and
duties as may from time to time be determined. The powers and duties of the
Assistants shall be the same as those of the Code Enforcement Officer. (Ord.
98-2, 5-4-1998)
4-2-4: PROHIBITED NUISANCES; EXCEPTION FOR WRECKING YARDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership or other
legal entity owning or occupying real property in the Town to permit, cause or
to allow:
   A.   Weeds: Weeds to be upon real property in excess of ten inches (10") in
height within twenty feet (20') of any structure, or to permit weeds to exist
between the sidewalk and the curb line of any street fronting such property, or
to the pavement or street edge if there is no sidewalk;
   B.   Garbage And Other Deleterious Objects: Garbage, refuse, unsightly or
deleterious objects or structures to exist upon such real property, unless in
connection with a business enterprise lawfully situated and licensed for the
same; or
   C.   Inoperable Motor Vehicles: Junked, wrecked, unlicensed, abandoned or
inoperable motor vehicles to exist upon public property longer than seventy two
(72) hours, or private property longer than thirty (30) days, except that up to
two (2) such vehicles or parts thereof may be stored within an enclosed
building or completely screened by a sight obscuring fence.
   D.   Exception For Wrecking Yards: Automobile impound and wrecking yards,
which are lawfully established and operated within the Town, are regulated by
State law and must conform to those laws. (Ord. 98-2, 5-4-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
4-2-5: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Inspection Of Property: The Code Enforcement Officer is hereby
authorized and directed to inspect and examine real property situated within
the Town for the purpose of determining whether or not it contains weeds,
garbage, junked, wrecked, unlicensed, abandoned or inoperable motor vehicles,
refuse or unsightly or deleterious objects or structures, and for the purpose
of determining whether or not the existence of those weeds or objects create a
fire hazard or constitutes a source of contamination or other danger to health
and safety, or otherwise creates nuisances, as declared in section
4-2-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Notice Required: If the Code Enforcement Officer concludes that such
conditions exist in whole or in part, the Officer shall, with the approval of
the Mayor:
      1.   Ascertain the names of the owners and occupants and description of
the premises where such objects and conditions exist;
      2.   Serve notice in writing upon the owner and occupant of such land,
either personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner
and occupant at their last known post office address, as disclosed by the
records of the County Assessor, or as otherwise ascertained, requiring such
owner or occupant, or both, as the case may be, to eradicate or destroy and
remove the same within such time as the Code Enforcement Officer may designate,
which shall not be less than ten (10) days from the date of service of such
notice;
      3.   Inform the owner or occupant or both by means of the notice or an
attached document that in the event he disagrees with the determination of the
Code Enforcement Officer and does not wish to remove the objects or
objectionable conditions, he may request in writing a hearing before the Town
Council at a time and place to be set by the Town Council. A written
application for a hearing shall state the time within which the owner or
occupant must conform to the decision of the Code Enforcement Officer.
   C.   Request For Hearing: In the event the owner or occupant makes such
request for a hearing, the Town Council shall set the time and place for
hearing the objections and the Town Clerk shall notify the owner or occupant in
writing of the time and place at which he may appear and be heard. The hearing
shall not be held within less than five (5) days from the date of service or
mailing of the notice. (Ord. 98-2, 5-4-1998)
4-2-6: PROOF OF SERVICE:
   A.   One (1) notice shall be deemed sufficient on any lot or parcel of
property for the entire season of weed growth during that year.
   B.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall make proof of service of any notice
given pursuant to section
4-2-5 of this chapter, under oath, and file the same in the Office of the Town
Treasurer. (Ord. 98-2, 5-4-1998)
4-2-7: HEARING:
   A.   Evidence; Time Limit For Decision: At the written request of an owner
or occupant ordered to informal hearing, the owner or occupant may present such
evidence and argument as is pertinent to the questions of whether or not the
removal or abatement of the objects or conditions is properly within the
purview of this chapter. The Town Council shall also permit the presentation of
evidence and argument by the Code Enforcement Officer and other interested
parties. Thereafter, within not more than ten (10) days, the Governing Body
shall, over the signature of the Mayor or such other member of the Town Council
as it may designate by resolution, render its written decision, a copy of which
shall be mailed to or served upon the owner or occupant by the Code Enforcement
Officer.
   B.   Decision:
      1.   In the event the Town Council upholds the determination of the Code
Enforcement Officer, the notice originally given by the Code Enforcement
Officer shall be deemed to be sufficient to require the owner or occupant to
remove or abate the objects or conditions and he shall have not less than ten
(10) days from the date of notice of the decision within which to conform
thereto. The time limit for compliance shall be specified in the notice.
      2.   In the event the Town Council either overrules or modifies the
determination of the Code Enforcement Officer, the written decision of the Town
Council shall apprise him of that fact and set forth the details and extent to
which the owner or occupant must make removal or other abatement of the objects
or conditions, if any. The owner or occupant shall be required to conform to
the decision of the Town Council not less than ten (10) days after service or
mailing of a copy of the decision and the decision shall be deemed to be the
modified decision of the Code Enforcement Officer. The time limit for
compliance shall be specified in the notice.
   C.   Amended Notice And Proof Of Service Required: The Code Enforcement
Officer shall file an amended notice and proof of service of the notice in the
Office of the Town Treasurer. (Ord. 98-2, 5-4-1998)
4-2-8: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
If any owner or occupant of lands described in such notice or decision shall
fail or neglect to conform to the requirements thereof relating to the
eradication or destruction or removal of such weeds, motor vehicles, garbage,
refuse, objects or structures, the Code Enforcement Officer shall employ all
necessary assistance to cause such materials to be removed or destroyed at the
expense of the Town, to be repaid by any method as described in sections
4-2-9 and
4-2-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 98-2, 5-4-1998)
4-2-9: ITEMIZED STATEMENT:
   A.   Requirements: The Code Enforcement Officer shall prepare an itemized
statement of all expenses incurred in the removal and destruction of the
materials and shall mail a copy thereof to the owner or occupant, or both,
demanding payment within twenty (20) days of the date of mailing. The notice
shall be deemed delivered when mailed by registered mail addressed to the
property owner's or occupant's last known address.
   B.   Failure To Make Payment: In the event the owner or occupant fails to
make payment of the amount set forth in the statement to the Finance Department
within the twenty (20) days, the Code Enforcement Officer may either cause suit
to be brought in an appropriate court of law or may refer the matter to the
County Treasurer as provided in section
4-2-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 98-2, 5-4-1998)
4-2-10: COLLECTION:
   A.   Lawsuit: In the event collection of expenses of destruction and removal
are pursued through the courts, the Town may sue for and receive judgment for
all of the costs of destruction and removal, together with reasonable attorney
fees, interest and court costs, and may execute upon such judgment in the
manner provided by law.
   B.   Taxes: In the event that the Code Enforcement Officer elects to refer
the expenses of destruction or removal to the County Treasurer for inclusion in
the tax notice of the property owner, he shall make, in triplicate, an itemized
statement of all expenses incurred in the destruction and removal of the same
and shall deliver the three (3) copies of the statement to the County Treasurer
within twenty (20) days after the completion of the work of destroying or
removing such weeds, motor vehicles, refuse, garbage, objects or structures.
Thereupon, the costs of the work shall be pursued by the County Treasurer in
accordance with the provision of Utah Code Annotated section
10-11-4, as amended, and the recalcitrant owner shall have such rights and
shall be subject to such powers as are thereby granted. (Ord. 98-2, 5-4-1998)
4-2-11: PENALTY:
   A.   A violation of this chapter is a Class B misdemeanor. A person
convicted of an offense may be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Each and every day that violation of this chapter continues may be
deemed to constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 98-2, 5-4-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Established
5-1-2: Appointment Of Chief Of Police
5-1-3: Chief Of Police Powers
5-1-4: Powers And Duties
5-1-5: Register Of Arrest
5-1-6: Receipts For Property Taken From Persons Arrested
5-1-7: Disposition Of Stolen Property
5-1-8: Department Division
5-1-9: Authority Beyond Town Limits
5-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is established a regularly constituted police force, to be known as the
Stockton Police Department, which shall consist of a Chief of Police and such
other police officers as needed by the Town. (2017 Code)
5-1-2: APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
The Mayor shall appoint a qualified person to be Chief of Police, with the
consent of the Town Council. (2017 Code)
5-1-3: CHIEF OF POLICE POWERS:
The powers of the Chief of Police shall be as set out in Utah Code Annotated
sections 10-3-913 through 10-9-922. In addition, he shall:
   A.   Organize, supervise and be responsible for all the activities of the
Police Department, and shall define and assign the duties of the different
police officers;
   B.   When required, attend meetings of the Governing Body to consult with
and advise them on matters of public safety. He shall execute all lawful orders
of the Mayor and Governing Body and see that all orders and judgments of the
Justice Court Judge are carried out. (2017 Code)
5-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Chief of Police and all police officers of the Town shall have the
following powers and duties, in addition to those that may be assigned to them
as provided in this chapter:
   A.   To suppress disturbances and breaches of the peace, and to apprehend
all persons committing any offense against the laws of the State or the
ordinances of the Town;
   B.   To execute and serve all warrants, processes, commitments and writs
whatsoever issued by the Justice Court Judge;
   C.   To preserve the public peace, prevent crime, detect and arrest
offenders, protect persons and property, remove nuisances existing in the
public streets, roads, highways and other public places, enforce every law
relating to the suppression of offenses, render such assistance in the
collection of licenses as may be required by the license collector and perform
all duties enjoined upon them by law and ordinance;
   D.   Respond to calls for emergency assistance;
   E.   Investigate traffic accidents;
   F.   Recover lost, stolen property and maintain the same until said property
is disposed of, as provided by law;
   G.   Supervise school crossings by the Town.
The enumeration of the foregoing duties and responsibilities shall not be
deemed to prevent or limit the Mayor from prescribing additional duties or
responsibilities for the Police Chief or assigning the designated duties and
responsibilities to another officer, as the Mayor shall deem appropriate. (2017
Code)
5-1-5: REGISTER OF ARREST:
The Chief of Police shall provide and cause to be kept a register of arrest.
Upon such register shall be entered a statement showing the date of such
arrest, the name of the person arrested, the name of the arresting officer, the
offense charged and a description of any property found upon the person
arrested. (2017 Code)
5-1-6: RECEIPTS FOR PROPERTY TAKEN FROM PERSONS ARRESTED:
   A.   Triplicate Receipts: When money or other property is taken from a
person arrested upon a charge of a public offense, the officer taking it must
at the time issue triplicate receipts therefor specifying particularly the
amount of money or kind of property taken. One (1) of the receipts he must
deliver to the person arrested. Another he must forthwith file with the Court
Clerk to which the complaint and other papers in the case are required by law
to be sent. The third receipt must be sent at once to the Office of the Police
Department.
   B.   Register Of Property: The Chief of Police must enter or cause to be
entered in a suitable book a description of every article of property alleged
to be stolen or embezzled and brought into his office or taken from the person
of the prisoner and must attach a number to each article and make a
corresponding entry thereof. (2017 Code)
5-1-7: DISPOSITION OF STOLEN PROPERTY:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to keep all lost or stolen property
that comes into the possession of the Police Department or any of its members.
He shall make all reasonable efforts to discover the owners thereof. (2017
Code)
5-1-8: DEPARTMENT DIVISION:
The Police Chief may, with the concurrence of the Mayor, make such work
assignments and assign such duties for the personnel within his/her department
as s/he deems appropriate. (2017 Code)
5-1-9: AUTHORITY BEYOND TOWN LIMITS:
   A.   The Chief, or his qualified officers or deputies, may exercise a peace
officer's authority beyond the Town limits of the Town as follows:
      1.   When in fresh pursuit of an offender for the purpose of arresting
and holding that person in custody or returning the suspect to the jurisdiction
where the offense was committed.
      2.   When a public offense is committed in such officer's presence.
      3.   When participating in an investigation of criminal activity which
originated in such officer's normal jurisdiction in cooperation with the local
authority.
      4.   When called to assist peace officers of another jurisdiction.
   B.   Any peace officer, prior to taking such authorized action, shall notify
and receive approval of the local law enforcement authority, or if such prior
contact is not reasonably possible, notify the local law enforcement authority
as soon as is reasonably possible. Unless specifically requested to aid a
police officer of another jurisdiction or otherwise as provided for by law, no
legal responsibility for a police officer's actions outside his normal
jurisdiction and as provided herein, shall attach to the local law enforcement
authority. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-2-1: Created
5-2-2: Chief Of Fire Department
5-2-3: Appointment Of Chief
5-2-4: Powers And Duties Of Chief And Officers
5-2-5: Compensation
5-2-6: Employees
5-2-7: Emergency Vehicles
5-2-8: Removal Of Obstructions At Fire
5-2-9: Control Of Persons
5-2-10: Investigation And Fire Report
5-2-11: Right To Enter And Inspect Premises
5-2-12: Persons Present At Fire Subject To Orders
5-2-13: Fire Alarm Systems
5-2-14: Open Burn Permit Required
5-2-15: Fire Protection To Other Communities
5-2-1: CREATED:
   A.   There is created a Fire Department, to be known as the Stockton
Volunteer Fire Department.
   B.   The members of the department may adopt a Constitution, bylaws and such
other rules and regulations as may be necessary for the effective operation of
the department, including requirements for membership therein. (2017 Code)
5-2-2: CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT:
There is created the position of Chief of the Fire Department. (2017 Code)
5-2-3: APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF:
   A.   The members of the duly selected firefighters may choose from their
members a Chief for a period of two (2) years, subject to Mayor and Town
Council approval.
   B.   The Mayor, with the advise and consent of the Town Council, may appoint
a qualified person to be Chief of the Stockton Volunteer Fire Department until
the members choose as provided in subsection A of this section. (2017 Code)
5-2-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF AND OFFICERS:
   A.   Supervision Of Department: The Chief shall have responsibility for the
general supervision of the department.
   B.   Power To Appoint And Remove Members: The Chief of the Fire Department
shall have the power to appoint members and to remove any officer or member of
the department at any time he/she sees fit, subject to the confirmation of the
Mayor and Town Council. The Mayor may also remove any officer from the Fire
Department at any time, with the approval of the Town Council.
   C.   Special Peace Officer: During a fire, the Chief shall have full
authority to take all measures as he shall deem necessary, subject to State
law, to control and extinguish the fire and for that purpose is made a special
peace officer.
   D.   Report To Governing Body: The Chief shall, at least monthly, report to
the Governing Body the condition of the fire equipment, the number of fires and
their causes and the estimated loss therefrom, together with such other
information as the Governing Body may request or as he shall deem appropriate.
   E.   Enforcement: The Chief shall strictly enforce all of the provisions of
the ordinances of the Town relating to the protection against and prevention of
fire.
   F.   Maintenance Of Equipment: The Chief shall maintain the equipment of the
department in good repair and order and ready for use. The members of the
department shall keep the fire apparatus and other fire equipment necessary to
properly protect life and property from fire owned by the Town in proper
condition for immediate use and shall make such reports as to its condition to
the Mayor and Town Council as from time to time requested.
   G.   Operational Rules And Regulations: The Chief, subject to the approval
of the Mayor and Governing Body, shall establish rules and regulations for the
operation of the department.
   H.   Delegation Of Duties: The Chief may delegate his duties to any person
employed by the department, but such delegation shall not relieve the Chief of
his responsibility for the performance thereof.
   I.   Statutes Applicable: The members of the Fire Department shall have the
power and authority as set forth in Utah Code Annotated. (2017 Code)
5-2-5: COMPENSATION:
Compensation for all members of the Fire Department shall be fixed by ordinance
of the Town Council, as determined at the yearly budget hearing. (2017 Code)
5-2-6: EMPLOYEES:
The Chief may make recommendations to the Mayor relating to the employment of
firefighters and such other personnel as may be necessary to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. The Chief may employ such additional personnel as
the Mayor and Governing Body may direct or authorize, including a Deputy Chief
and such other officers as may be provided for in the Constitution, bylaws or
other rules and regulations adopted by the department. (2017 Code)
5-2-7: EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Fire trucks are designated authorized emergency vehicles. (2017 Code)
5-2-8: REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS AT FIRE:
The officer in charge at any fire may order the removal or destruction of any
fence, building or structure, or that any utility be closed, cut or removed
when deemed necessary to control, extinguish or prevent the spread of fire.
(2017 Code)
5-2-9: CONTROL OF PERSONS:
All persons present at a fire shall obey the orders of any firefighters. (2017
Code)
5-2-10: INVESTIGATION AND FIRE REPORT:
The Chief, or such other persons as he shall designate, shall, after
extinguishing a fire, make a prompt and thorough investigation of the cause of
the fire, the time the fire began, the amount of loss and insurance, a
description of the affected buildings and premises, and shall secure all other
useful information available, and record the same in a record book kept for
that purpose in the Office of the department, and shall report the same to the
Governing Body at such time as it may direct. (2017 Code)
5-2-11: RIGHT TO ENTER AND INSPECT PREMISES:
The Fire Chief, or his deputies, upon presentation of proper credentials, shall
have the right to enter upon any premises at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of making inspections in emergency situations, or where consent has
been obtained. (2017 Code)
5-2-12: PERSONS PRESENT AT FIRE SUBJECT TO ORDERS:
Every male or female person eighteen (18) years or older present at a fire
shall be subject to the orders of the officer in command and shall render
assistance in the manner directed by the officer in command. (2017 Code)
5-2-13: FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS:
It is unlawful for any person to tamper with or remove all or any part of a
fire alarm system, whether public or private. (2017 Code)
5-2-14: OPEN BURN PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be required that any open burning within the Town limits shall first
have a burn permit issued by the Fire Department. The burn permit shall be
based on the burn index of the State and the County. Issuance is only if the
index is in the approved safety zone. (2017 Code)
5-2-15: FIRE PROTECTION TO OTHER COMMUNITIES:
   A.   Authorized: The Town is hereby authorized to enter into agreements or
contracts with nearby incorporated communities or Governing Bodies of other
organizations to provide the members of such communities or organizations with
fire protection, or to establish a mutual aid system.
   B.   Apparatus: No apparatus shall be hired out or permitted to leave the
Town area, except in response to a call for aid at a fire in a neighboring
community, without the consent of the Public Safety Chief. The officer in
charge shall have the power to assign equipment for response to calls for
outside aid as set out in subsection A of this section, and in other cases only
when the absence of such equipment will not jeopardize protection for the Town.
(2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Criminal Code And Code Of Criminal Procedure Adopted
5-3-2: Firearms - Explosive Discharges
5-3-3: Flooding Streets And Sidewalks
5-3-1: CRIMINAL CODE AND CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah Criminal Code, Utah Code Annotated title
76, as amended, and the Utah Code of Criminal Procedure, Utah Code Annotated
title 77, as amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction, Class C
misdemeanor or Class B misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the Town. Any and all
violations thereof shall be considered violations of this section and each such
violation shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 81-A, 1981; amd. 2017 Code)
5-3-2: FIREARMS - EXPLOSIVE DISCHARGES:
   A.   Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge firearms of
any description within the limits of the Town, with the exception of the
following:
      1.   Law enforcement officers acting in their official capacity;
      2.   Persons who are justified in discharging a firearm in lawful defense
or persons or property as defined in UCA Section 76-2-401, as amended;
      3.   Persons acting to protect their livestock and pets from attack from
other animals.
   B.   Fireworks:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, or discharge any
fireworks other than Class C common state-approved explosives, as defined in
UCA Section 53-7-202, as amended, without a permit approved by the State Fire
Marshall Division under UCA Section 53-7-223, as amended, and by the Stockton
Town Fire Chief.
      2.   Class C fireworks may be discharged only on days and during times
allowed by Utah Code Section 53-7-225, as amended.
      3.   The Stockton Town Fire Chief may close certain areas of the Town for
discharge of Class C fireworks as provided by Utah Code Section 53-7-225, as
amended.
      4.   A violation of this section is a class C misdemeanor. (1960 Code §
9-5; amd. 2017 Code; Ord. 2020-01, 2-13-2020)
5-3-3: FLOODING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
Every person who knowingly, recklessly, or negligently obstructs, injures, or
floods any street or sidewalk by the flow or seepage of water, or who
knowingly, recklessly, or negligently permits water under the person's control
to escape in any manner so as to obstruct, injure, or flood any street or
sidewalk within the limits of the Town, is guilty of a Class C misdemeanor.
(1960 Code § 9-10; amd. Ord. 2020-02, 2-13-2020)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Title
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Administration And Enforcement
5-4-4: Licensing Requirements
5-4-5: Rabies Control
5-4-6: Regulations For Protection Of Animals And Persons
5-4-7: Kennels
5-4-8: Cats Regulated
5-4-9: Pigs
5-4-10: Impoundment
5-4-11: Liability
5-4-12: Revocation Of License Or Permit
5-4-13: Violations
5-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as ANIMAL CONTROL, OF THIS CODE. (Ord. 04-02, 3-8-
2004)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall mean:
ANIMAL: Any live, vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any facility operated by a humane society or Municipal
corporation, or its authorized agents, for the purpose of impounding or caring
for animals held under the authority of this chapter or State law.
COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any pet shop, grooming shop, auction, riding
school or stable, zoological park, circus, performing animal exhibition or
kennel.
EUTHANIZED/DEATH: The humane killing of an animal.
FAMILY: Any group of persons, whether related by blood or marriage, or not
related, residing in a structure and sharing common living facilities, such as
bathroom, kitchen, living room and bedroom.
GROOMING SHOP: A commercial establishment where animals are bathed, clipped,
plucked or otherwise groomed.
HARBOR: Keeping, feeding, maintaining, sheltering, owning or caring for an
animal for three (3) or more successive days.
HUMANE OFFICER: Any person designated by the State of Utah, a Municipal
government or humane society as a Law Enforcement Officer who is qualified to
perform such duties under the laws of this State.
HUMANE SOCIETY: Any organization for the prevention of cruelty to animals
incorporated under the laws of the State of Utah.
KENNEL: A location where a business or person engages in boarding, breeding,
buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling dogs, or other animals.
A person who harbors dogs shall be deemed to operate a kennel when there are
four (4) or more dogs at the residence than are allowed by zoning, and when
such dogs are at least four (4) months old.
OWNER: Any person, partnership, corporation or other legal entity harboring one
(1) or more animals.
PERSON: Any entity legally recognized by the State of Utah, including, but not
limited to, citizens and aliens for the United States, partnerships,
corporations, sole proprietorships and families.
PET: Any animal kept for pleasure rather that utility.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: Any animal or animals which are causing a disturbance to a
resident or residents, or are in a prohibited area.
RESTRAINT: The control of any animal by means of a leash or lead, commands of a
responsible person, or by retention upon the real property of the owner.
RUNNING AT LARGE: Being off of or away from the premises of the owner or not
under the constant restraint of the said owner.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal or animals that constitute a physical threat to
human beings or other animals, whether because of an apparent propensity or an
attempt to bite, step upon, knock over another, or otherwise injure said person
or animal. (Ord. 04-02, 3-8-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
5-4-3: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Animal Shelter: There should be provided by the Town an enclosure,
either mobile or permanently mounted, to keep and safely hold all animals
impounded by the Town, which shall be known and designated as the animal
shelter. The Town may contract for such facility.
   B.   Animal Control Officer: The Animal Control Officer shall be a person
employed/appointed by the Town who may, in addition to any other duties, be
known as the Animal Control Officer, and shall have, among other implied and
additional duties, the following:
      1.   To provide and maintain for the harboring of all animals impounded
by the Town curing the seventy two (72) hours or more of their impoundment by
transporting to the contractor.
      2.   Shall give notice to owners, when possible, of the impoundment of
their animals.
      3.   Maintain proper accounting records of all receipts and disbursements
and records of impoundment and disposal of all animals impounded by the Town.
   C.   Right To Enter Private Property:
      1.   The Animal Control Officer or Humane Officer may enter private
property, including a dwelling or accessory structure, only when in pursuit of
an animal which is running at large or vicious, or any animal which the Animal
Control Officer has reasonable cause to believe is rabid.
      2.   The Animal Control Officer or Humane Officer may enter private
property in pursuit of, or in order to apprehend and impound, any animal in
violation of any provision of this chapter when an impound order has been
issued by a Judge or magistrate court having jurisdiction to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Said impoundment order may also include a search
warrant, which shall specify that a dwelling, accessory building or other
structure may be entered in enforcing the order and whether the same shall be
enforced during the daylight hours or also during the nighttime as specified by
the warrant.
      3.   Any Judge, Justice of the Peace or Magistrate of a court having
jurisdiction of the provisions of this chapter, upon a petition and affidavit
of any citizen exhibiting probable cause that an animal in violation of any
provision of this chapter is harbored on private property, may issue a search
warrant. (Ord. 04-02, 3-8-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
5-4-4: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to own any dog in
excess of seven (7) days without obtaining a license therefor.
   B.   Application For License:
      1.   Each person obtaining a license, pursuant to this chapter, shall
provide the Town with the name and address of the applicant, the name, sex,
breed, age and color of the dog to be licensed, and the number of dogs on the
premises wherein the applicant resides.
      2.   The applicant shall also display to the Town official taking the
application, an identifying tag or certificate indicating that said dog has had
a rabies vaccination within the allowable time specified by State law, and
shall provide a certificate showing the date and place of the person
administering said vaccination, and if the applicant claims said dog to have
been neutered or spayed, a statement signed by the veterinarian who performed
such neuterization, indicating the date of the operation and the description of
the dog neutered.
   C.   Fee For License: The license fee, penalty for late payment fee and
kennel fee shall be in such amounts as established by the Town Council.
   D.   Renewal Fee: Each license sold a person, pursuant to this chapter,
shall be valid for the calendar year in which it is purchased, and a new
license must be purchased for each succeeding year the dog is harbored in the
Town.
   E.   Issuance Of Tags: Upon acceptance of the required information and fee,
the Town shall issue a durable tag, stamped with an identifying number to the
applicant, for attachment to the collar of the dog to which it was issued.
   F.   License Tags And Collars: All dogs subject to the license provisions of
this chapter, shall wear a suitable collar with the tag attached thereto at all
times when not on the premises of the person harboring that animal.
   G.   Replacement Of Lost Tags: Should a dog lose its license tag issued by
the Town for the then current year, a new one shall be issued upon application
for a replacement of said tag and payment of a replacement fee in such amount
as established by the Town Council.
   H.   Altering Or Removing Tags: No person shall put a tag on any dog for
which it was not issued, or use the license of any dog for any purpose other
than for the identification of the dog to which it was issued, nor deprive any
dog of its tag or collar, or alter said tag in any manner. (Ord. 04-02, 3-8-
2004; amd. 2017 Code)
5-4-5: RABIES CONTROL:
A dog or animal which is known to have bitten or injured any person or animal
so as to cause a perforation of the skin, or any animal suspected of being
rabid, shall be placed in confinement by the Animal Control Officer and should
be under the observation of a veterinary hospital or other responsible
individual, and shall not be killed or released until at least ten (10) days
after said impoundment or said skin perforation caused by such animal did
occur, whichever is the latter. Any animal of a species subject to rabies that
has bitten a person shall likewise be confined and observed for at least ten
(10) days after such occurrence. If the animal dies or has been killed, its
head shall be removed and shall be taken by the Animal Control Officer to a
veterinary or State health laboratory to be examined for rabies. (Ord. 04-02,
3-8-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
5-4-6: REGULATIONS FOR PROTECTION OF ANIMALS AND PERSONS:
   A.   Animal Care; Cruelty: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Fail to provide any animal, which he/she is harboring, with
sufficient good and wholesome food, water, proper shelter and protection from
the weather, humane care and treatment and clean shelter, free of offensive
odors or accumulation of waste.
      2.   Beat, cruelly ill treat, torment, overload, overwork, maim or
otherwise abuse an animal.
      3.   Abandon an animal under circumstances where the abandoning person
does not make prior arrangements for the proper harboring of such animals.
      4.   Wilfully fail to report injury or death to an animal caused by a
motor vehicle striking the same. Such notice shall be given immediately upon
the occurrence to the owner by the party striking said animal with a motor
vehicle and if the owner cannot be ascertained, to the Police Department.
      5.   To wilfully kill any animal by poison, or to expose any poisonous
substance with the intent that it shall be taken by any animal. This provision
does not apply to the baiting of rodents with commercially purchased and
treated grain.
      6.   To allow an animal to remain standing fastened or otherwise, on any
cement, asphalt, metal or other hardened surface, for more than five (5)
continuous hours in any twenty four (24) hour period.
      7.   To encourage or urge dogs or other animals or fowl to fight, to
commence to fight, or otherwise engage in combat.
      8.   To secrete or impound the animals of another without the prior
knowledge of the owner.
      9.   To wilfully kill any animal without a humane or individual public
safety reason.
   B.   Running At Large: No animal shall be allowed to run at large or be
herded upon any street, sidewalk or any other public place, and all such
animals are declared to be strays, to be captured by the Humane Officers and
impounded at an animal shelter, to be sold as provided by law if not reclaimed
by the owner as provided by this chapter.
   C.   Retaking Animals Unlawfully: Any person who shall take an animal out of
the possession of any person lawfully holding the same under the provisions of
this chapter, or shall intercept or hinder any person lawfully taking or
attempting to take such animal, shall be deemed guilty of a Class B misdemeanor
and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   D.   Fowl; Trespassing, Distance To Inhabited Buildings: It is unlawful for
the owner or any person harboring domestic fowl, such as turkeys, geese, ducks
or chickens, to permit such fowl to trespass upon the premises of another, or
to house, keep, run or feed any such fowl within fifty feet (50') of any house
used for human habitation.
   E.   Restraint Required: All dogs or other animals shall be kept under
restraint when not on the premises of the owner of said dog or other animal.
   F.   Public Nuisance:
      1.   Prohibited: No person shall allow an animal which he harbors to
become a public nuisance.
      2.   Acts Constituting Nuisance: No animal or animals shall:
         a.   Molest passersby or passing vehicle drivers;
         b.   Attack other animals or persons;
         c.   Trespass on school or Town park grounds;
         d.   Be repeatedly at large;
         e.   Damage private or public property;
         f.   Bark, whine or howl in an excessive manner, or make any
disturbing noises on a continuous or untimely fashion, create an unsightly
habitat or an odoriferous aroma, either of which is offensive to human beings,
or create a breeding place for flies and other insects.
   G.   Vicious Animals: No animal or animals shall cause a physical threat to
human beings or other animals, whether because of an apparent propensity or an
attempt to bite, step upon, knock over or otherwise injure said person or
animal.
   H.   Prohibited Animals:
      1.   Specified: It shall be unlawful to possess or to own any of the
following animals within the Town without a conditional permit:
         a.   Any animal which is considered wildlife, such as skunks,
raccoons, wolves, etc.
      2.   Conditional Permit Regulated: All conditional permits shall, at
minimum, be regulated by the following:
         a.   All conditional permits must be reviewed by the Planning
Commission and thereafter be granted or denied by the Town Council.
         b.   All permits shall have a maximum number limit of said animals
placed on the conditional permit.
         c.   All permits shall have an annual inspection by the Animal Control
or Police Officer to provide proof of a safe, clean and sanitary living
environment and the maximum number of animals allowed is being met.
         d.   All animals must have proof of vaccinations.
         e.   All the above requirements and any other conditions on the permit
ordered by the Town Council must be fully complied with or the permit will be
immediately revoked and a criminal judicial action may be taken.
      3.   Violations: It shall be a Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, for any individual, after receiving an official letter from
an Animal Control/Police Officer, of their permit being revoked and said
individual refusing to get rid of the animal or animals within a forty eight
(48) hour period. (Ord. 04-02, 3-8-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
5-4-7: KENNELS:
   A.   Area Requirements:
      1.   Areas where dogs are kept in a kennel shall be seventy five feet
(75') from any habitable building on an adjacent lot and forty feet (40') from
any habitable building on the lot wherein the kennel is located.
      2.   Kennels shall not be located closer than fifty feet (50') to a
public street.
      3.   Each dog kept in a kennel must have a separate area of four feet by
six feet (4' x 6').
   B.   Odors And Disturbances: All kennels shall be required to control
unreasonable odors, barking, whining, howling or other disturbing noises.
   C.   Sanitation: Kennels and dog areas shall be kept clean.
   D.   Inspections: Annual inspections shall be required before renewal of any
kennel license.
   E.   Revocation: Any kennel receiving three (3) violations in one (1) year
shall have the license revoked and the animals moved within thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 2000-5, 7-10-2000; amd. 2017 Code)
5-4-8: CATS REGULATED:
It shall be required for all owners of cats to have the following regulations
met within the Town:
   A.   Rabies Vaccination: It shall be required for all cats to have
vaccinations within the Town limits for rabies. It shall be the owner's
responsibility to keep such records of proof and must be provided to the Animal
Control Officer or Police Officer upon request.
   B.   Number Permitted; Conditional Use:
      1.   No more than three (3) cats per property location are permitted
without a conditional permit.
      2.   All conditional permits must be reviewed by the Planning Commission
and thereafter granted or denied by the Town Council.
      3.   All permits shall have a maximum number limit of cats placed on the
conditional permit.
      4.   All permits shall have an annual inspection by the Animal Control or
Police Officer to provide proof of a safe, clean and sanitary living
environment and the maximum number of cats allowed is being met.
   C.   Revocation Of Permit: All the above requirements and any other
conditions on the permit ordered by the Town Council must be fully complied
with or the permit will be immediately revoked and a criminal judicial action
may be taken.
   D.   Redemption From Shelter: If a cat is captured by the Animal Control
Officer or Police Officer, all impoundment fees and proof of vaccination will
be required before a cat is released from the animal shelter or a private
shelter contracted by the Town. (Ord. 04-02, 3-8-2004)
5-4-9: PIGS:
As of June 1, 1991, it shall be unlawful for anyone to have a pig or pigs
within the Town boundaries, except as provided in section
10-6A-2 or
10-6B-2 of this Code. (Ord. 90-3, 8-6-1990; amd. 2017 Code)
5-4-10: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Duty To Impound For Violation: It is the duty of the Animal Control
Officer, Police Officer or Humane Officer to take, impound and safely keep any
animals which are in violation of this chapter, and specifically, but not by
way of limitation, to impound any animal which:
      1.   The Animal Control Officer or Humane Officer has probable cause to
believe is committing or has committed a public nuisance, been running at
large, is a vicious animal, has no license, vaccination or tags as required by
this chapter or is in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Is staked, tied, herded or pastured upon any street, lane, court,
alley, square, park or any other place belonging to or under the control of the
Town.
   B.   Citation May Be Issued: In addition to, or in lieu of, as the Animal
Control Officer or Humane Officer shall decide, impounding an animal violating
the provisions of this chapter, the Animal Control Officer or Humane Officer
may issue to the owner of such animal, a citation for each violation of this
action which has occurred.
   C.   Destruction Of Impounded, Unfit Animals: It shall be the duty of the
Animal Control Officer or Police Officer to issue and sign a death report for
and to order destruction of any animal taken into custody which, in the opinion
of the Animal Control Officer is, by reason of old age, unfit for use, or which
is in an incurable, crippled condition, or which is adjudged by a verbal or
written report of a licensed Veterinarian to be afflicted with any painful
incurable disease or injury. If an animal sustains a serious injury, it may
require the Animal Control Officer or Police Officer at his discretion to put
the animal to an immediate death as to relieve the animal from its misery by
whatever means possible by the Officer.
   D.   Impoundment Order: A Judge, Justice of the Peace or Magistrate of the
court having jurisdiction of the provisions of this chapter, upon any ex-parte
petition and affidavit of any citizen exhibiting reasonable cause to believe a
violation of this chapter to have occurred, may issue an impoundment order.
Also, if a Prosecutor files a formal information or citation with an ex-parte
petition, or petition requesting an official court impoundment order and
affidavit by an Animal Control Officer or Police Officer that exhibits probable
cause to believe a violation of this chapter has occurred, the court may issue
a court impoundment order. If a person refuses to release an animal after being
served with a court impoundment order for the said animal, they shall be guilty
of a Class B misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   E.   Redemption Of Impounded Animals:
      1.   License Required: Any dog impounded pursuant to this chapter which
is not wearing a tag for the then current year shall not be released from the
impound animal shelter unless the owner shall obtain a license as provided by
this chapter.
      2.   Fees: Any owner reclaiming an impounded dog shall pay a minimum fee
in such amount as established by the Town Council and all shelter fees. The
court may increase the reclaiming fee at its discretion and the Mayor may set
the shelter fees in a reasonable amount and have said fees ratified by the Town
Council. If the Town has contracted with a private individual or company for
shelter, then those fees shall also have to be paid.
   F.   Unclaimed; Disposition: Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within
seventy two (72) hours of notice of its impoundment being given orally to said
owner, shall become the property of the local governmental authority or humane
society for not less the accrued impoundment fee, or may be humanely disposed
of if the owner of said animal cannot be ascertained by the impounding
authority within forty eight (48) hours of its impoundment, said animal may
likewise be sold, placed or disposed of as herein provided at the expiration of
said seventy two (72) hours.
   G.   Interference With Impounding Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to hinder, delay, interfere with or obstruct the Animal Control Officer,
Humane Officer or any Police Officer while engaged in capturing, securing or
taking, or apprehending any dog, to break open or in any manner directly or
indirectly to aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of any animal shelter,
kennel, cage or commercial animal establishment so as to permit or allow the
escape from such vehicle or establishment of any animals contained therein.
(Ord. 04-02, 3-8-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
5-4-11: LIABILITY:
The owner of any animal which damages private or public property or injures any
animal or person shall be civilly and/or criminally liable according to the
laws of the State to the person suffering said damage or injury for the amount
of damage or injury suffered, plus costs of suit and reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 04-02, 3-8-2004)
5-4-12: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Authority: The Town may revoke any kennel, commercial animal
establishment, animal shelter or permit, or a license issued to any such
person, if such person refuses or fails to comply with this chapter or any
applicable law governing the protection or keeping of animals. (Ord. 04-02, 3-
8-2004)
   B.   Disposal Of Animals: Any person whose permit or license is revoked
shall, within thirty (30) days thereafter, humanly dispose of all animals
harbored by such person for which the license or permit has been revoked, and
no part of the permit or license fee shall be refunded. (Ord. 04-02, 3-8-2004;
amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Inspection: It shall be a condition of the issuance of any permit or
license as herein provided, that the Town shall be permitted to inspect all
animals and the premises where such animals are harbored at any reasonable
time, and shall, if permission for such inspection is refused, revoke the
permit or license of the refusing person harboring said animals.
   D.   Persons Convicted Of Cruelty To Animals: No person who has been
convicted of cruelty to animals shall be issued a permit to operate any of the
above mentioned establishments, or a license to harbor animals within the Town
for one (1) year from the date of conviction, and only thereafter, if, in the
opinion of the Animal Control Officer, a similar offense shall not again occur
due to said person's action or inaction. (Ord. 04-02, 3-8-2004)
5-4-13: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Judge Has Discretion Regarding Repeated Violations: Any animals which
violate any provisions of this chapter on more than one (1) occasion, or is
found to have been in violation of more than one (1) count of any prohibited
act or failure to act according to this chapter shall, at the discretion of the
court having jurisdiction to reach judgment in the matter, be destroyed unless
the court decides the owner of said animal shows good cause why said animal
should not be destroyed. However, the decision is at the discretion of the
Judge.
   B.   Destruction Of Vicious Animals: Any animal which is found to be a
vicious animal according to the provisions of this chapter shall be destroyed
at the court's discretion after the first such offense, unless the court
decides the owner shows good cause why the same should not be destroyed.
However, the decision is at the discretion of the Judge.
   C.   Mandatory Court Appearance Required: If any person or individual is
cited or is summoned in for court for any of the following violations, it shall
be mandatory to appear before the court:
      1.   Cited or summoned for a vicious animal;
      2.   Cited or summoned for a second violation of any provision of this
chapter within a six (6) month period of the first citation or summons. This
can be with either the same owner/individual or same property location of the
animal; (Ord. 04-02, 3-8-2004)
      3.   Cited or summoned for a violation to remove animals after receiving
an official letter of revoked conditional use permit. (Ord. 04-02, 3-8-2004;
amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Discharge Of Fireworks
5-5-2: Sales Of Fireworks
5-5-1: DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for anyone within the limits of the Town to discharge,
explode or set off any rocket, squib, fire cracker, Roman candle, sparkler,
cannon or any other fireworks, or combustible or explosive matter whatsoever,
without first obtaining permission of the Town Council to do so. Such
permission shall be granted only on written application made therefor and after
the application has been submitted to the Chief of the Fire Department and a
report thereon made by him to the Town Council. The permission herein provided
for shall be in writing and shall specify the time when and the place where
such fireworks or combustible matter may be discharged, set off or exploded.
(1960 Code § 9-9; amd. 2017 Code)
5-5-2: SALES OF FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or to offer for sale or have in his
possession or custody, any rocket, squib, firecracker, Roman candle, toy
pistol, fire balloon or other combustible or explosive fireworks, or any
article for the making of pyrotechnical displays, without first obtaining from
the Town Council permission in writing to sell or offer for sale or have in his
custody any such article. (1960 Code § 9-9)
CHAPTER 6
COST RECOVERY FOR FIRE EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Purpose
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Recovery Authorization And Procedure
5-6-4: No Admission Of Liability
5-6-5: Action To Recover Expenses
5-6-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter shall provide procedures for recovering costs incurred by the Town
for assistance rendered by the Town in responding to hazardous materials
emergencies, aggravated fire emergencies and aggravated emergency medical
responses. (Ord. 2000-7, 7-17-2000)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
AGGRAVATED FIRE EMERGENCY:
   A.   A fire proximately caused by the owner or occupier of property or a
structure, which presents a direct and immediate threat to public safety and
requires immediate action to mitigate the threat, and the fire:
      1.   Is caused or contributed to by the failure to comply with an order
from any Town agency, department or official; or
      2.   Occurs as a direct result of a deliberate act in violation of the
ordinances or regulations of the Town; or
      3.   Is caused by arson.
   B.   An alarm that results in a Town fire unit being dispatched, and the
person transmitting or causing the transmission of the alarm knows at the time
of said transmission that no fire or fire related emergency exists.
AGGRAVATED MEDICAL EMERGENCY: An alarm that results in a Town fire unit or a
Town emergency medical unit being dispatched, and the person transmitting, or
causing the transmission of, the alarm, knows at the time of said transmission
that there are no reasonable grounds for believing that a medical emergency
exists.
EXPENSES: The actual costs of government and volunteer personnel, including
workers' compensation benefits, fringe benefits, administrative overhead, costs
of equipment, costs of equipment operation, costs of materials, costs of
disposal and the costs of any contract labor and materials.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY: A sudden or unexpected release of any substance
that, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics, presents a direct and immediate threat to public
safety or the environment and requires immediate action to mitigate the threat.
(Ord. 2000-7, 7-17-2000)
5-6-3: RECOVERY AUTHORIZATION AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Procedure Specified: The Town is hereby empowered to recover expenses
incurred by virtue of the Town response to a hazardous materials emergency,
aggravated fire emergency or an aggravated medical emergency from any person,
corporation, partnership or other individual or entity who caused such an
emergency, pursuant to the following procedure:
      1.   The Fire Department shall determine responsibility for the emergency
or response as defined above and notify the responsible party by mail of the
department's determination of responsibility and the expenses to be recovered.
      2.   The notice shall specify that the determined responsible party may
appeal the Department's decision before a Hearing Officer designated by the
Town Council and establish a date by which the notice of appeal shall be filed.
The appeal date shall be no less than fifteen (15) days from the date of the
notice.
   B.   Appeal; Hearing: In the event the determined responsible party appeals
the determination, the Hearing Officer shall hold a hearing to consider any
issues raised by the appeal, at which hearing the appealing party and the Town
shall be entitled to present evidence in support of their respective positions.
   C.   Recommendation; Decision: After the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall
make a recommendation to the Town Council, which shall issue a decision
determining responsibility and assessing expenses. The Town Council may adopt,
modify or remand the recommendation of the hearing examiner for further
proceedings. The Town Council may, in its sole discretion, hear additional
evidence prior to issuing its decision. (Ord. 2000-7, 7-17-2000)
5-6-4: NO ADMISSION OF LIABILITY:
The payment of expenses determined owing under this chapter does not
constitute:
   A.   An admission of liability or negligence in any legal action for
damages; or
   B.   A criminal fine. (Ord. 2000-7, 7-17-2000)
5-6-5: ACTION TO RECOVER EXPENSES:
In the event the parties determined to be responsible for the repayment of
expenses incurred due to the Town response to such an emergency fail to make
payment to the Town within thirty (30) days after a final administrative
determination of any appeal to the Town, or thirty (30) days from the deadline
for appeal in the event no appeal is filed, the Town may initiate legal action
to recover from the determined responsible parties the expenses determined to
be owing, including the Town's reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 2000-7, 7-17-
2000)
CHAPTER 7
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
5-7-1: Prohibited Noise
5-7-2: Regulated Noise
5-7-3: Factors For Determining Violation
5-7-4: Exceptions
5-7-5: Special Permit
5-7-6: Penalty
5-7-1: PROHIBITED NOISE:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully or with reckless disregard create the
following noise disturbances within the Town:
   A.   Disruption Of Dwelling: To make, cause or permit any excessive noise
which annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of any
home, business, neighborhood or person residing therein which, under the
circumstances, would disturb a person of average and reasonable sensitivities.
   B.   Disruption Of Meeting: To make, cause or permit any excessive noise
which prevents or disrupts a lawful meeting, gathering, business or other
lawful activity, which under the circumstances would disturb a person of
average and reasonable sensitivities.
   C.   Automobiles: To operate or permit the operation of a motor vehicle
which causes excessive noise levels as a result of a defective or modified
exhaust system, an audio system within or on the vehicle, or as a result of any
unnecessary rapid acceleration, deceleration, engine revving or tire squealing.
   D.   Street Performances: To use or permit the use of bells, whistles,
sirens, music horns or any other noise making device for the purpose of
business, amusement or otherwise which tends to cause persons to congregate on
the streets or sidewalks of the Town.
   E.   Emergency Signals: To make, cause or permit the sounding of any fire,
burglar, automobile or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle or similar emergency
signaling device other than for emergency or testing purposes. Any testing
permitted herein shall be conducted between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and shall be conducted for the minimum test
cycle time not to exceed three (3) minutes. (Ord. 2016-10-13, 10-13-2016)
5-7-2: REGULATED NOISE:
It shall be unlawful to cause, permit or perform the following acts between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. within the Town
when such acts create a noise disturbance within a residential area:
   A.   Loading Operation: To load, unload, open, close or otherwise handle
boxes, crates, containers, building materials, garbage containers or similar
objects.
   B.   Construction Work: To operate any tools or equipment used in
construction, drilling, repair, alteration or demolition work on buildings,
structures or streets.
   C.   Power Equipment: To operate any mechanically powered saw, drill,
sander, grinder, lawn or garden tool, lawn mower or other similar device, other
than powered snow removal equipment.
   D.   Garbage Collection: To collect garbage, waste or refuse.
   E.   Loudspeakers: To operate or use any loudspeaker, public address system
or mobile sound vehicle amplifying sound therefrom.
   F.   Instruments Or Devices: To operate or play any radio, television,
musical instrument or similar audio device. (Ord. 2016-10-13, 10-13-2016)
5-7-3: FACTORS FOR DETERMINING VIOLATION:
The factors to be considered in determining whether a violation of the
provisions of this chapter exists include, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
   A.   The level of the noise;
   B.   The nature of the noise, i.e., usual or unusual;
   C.   The origin of the noise, i.e., natural or unnatural;
   D.   The level and intensity of any background noise;
   E.   The proximity of the noise to residential areas;
   F.   The nature and zoning of the surrounding area;
   G.   The density of inhabitants in the surrounding area;
   H.   The time of day of the noise; and
   I.   The recurrence or consistency of the noise. (Ord. 2016-10-13, 10-13-
2016)
5-7-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to emergency situations, the
lawful exercise of free speech, except as regulated herein by reasonable time,
place and manner restrictions, and conduct permitted by license or permit of
the Town, or otherwise authorized by law. In addition, this chapter shall not
apply to agricultural equipment or operation, unless such equipment or
operation is determined by the Town to constitute a nuisance from the negligent
or improper operation of any such equipment or operation. (Ord. 2016-10-13, 10-
13-2016)
5-7-5: SPECIAL PERMIT:
Persons may file an application with the Town for a special temporary noise
permit authorizing the applicant to take certain action or conduct certain
activities not otherwise permitted herein. Any permit issued hereunder shall be
in addition to any and all other licenses or permits required by law, and shall
be subject to all other State and County laws regarding noise emissions.
   A.   Application: Applications for a special temporary noise permit shall be
made in writing to the Town Clerk and shall include the following items:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant;
      2.   Activity or purpose for which the permit is desired;
      3.   Reasons why the permit is necessary, including an explanation of
undue hardship and lack of reasonable alternatives;
      4.   The specific date, time and location to be covered by the permit;
      5.   Any other relevant information requested by the Town.
   B.   Fees: Each application for the special temporary noise permit filed
hereunder shall be accompanied by any required permit fees set forth in the
Town consolidated fee schedule. No permit shall be issued until the proper fees
have been paid to the Town. Unless otherwise provided, the fees required herein
shall be in addition to any and all other license or permit fees imposed by any
other law.
   C.   Issuance: The Mayor or his/her designee shall review all applications
filed hereunder and may issue or deny a permit, in whole or in part, based upon
consideration for public health and safety. Any permit issued hereunder shall
contain any conditions upon which the permit has been granted, including the
effective dates, time restrictions, location and other reasonable requirements
necessary to minimize adverse effects upon surrounding areas and any persons
therein.
   D.   Denial: If the proper fees have not been paid, or the Mayor determines
that the application does not conform with applicable law or it is not in the
public's best interest to issue the permit, the Mayor shall deny the permit and
notify the applicant in writing of such denial. The notice shall state the
reasons for denial and inform the applicant that he or she may file a written
appeal of such denial pursuant to subsection I of this section.
   E.   Term: Any permit issued hereunder shall specifically state the term and
purpose for which it was issued, not to exceed thirty (30) days.
   F.   Limitation: Except as provided herein, each permit issued hereunder
shall be valid only for the person to whom it is issued. Permit holders shall
ensure that the permit is available for inspection by Town officials at the
place and time for which it is issued.
   G.   Records: The Town Clerk shall keep a record of all permits issued
hereunder, including the name of the person to whom the permit was issued, the
type of permit issued, and the fees collected.
   H.   Revocation: Any permit issued hereunder may be revoked or suspended by
the Mayor due to the permit holder's failure to comply with the provisions
hereof or other applicable law. Prior to revocation of any permit, proper
notice and an opportunity to be heard shall be provided to the permit holder.
   I.   Appeal: Any determination made by the Mayor relative to the issuance,
denial or revocation of a permit hereunder may be appealed to the Town Council
by filing, within ten (10) days from the date of said determination, a written
notice of appeal setting forth the grounds for the appeal and any other
pertinent information. Such notice of appeal shall be filed by delivering an
original and five (5) copies to the Town Council during regular business hours.
Upon receipt of the appeal, the Town Council shall thoroughly and objectively
investigate the matter and issue a written decision stating the reasons for the
decision and informing the appellant of any right to judicial review provided
by law. The Town Council may hold a hearing on the appeal within thirty (30)
days of the date of the appeal; and may delegate its duty to investigate the
matter to one (1) of its members, or to another person. Any petition for review
of the Town Council's decision shall be filed with the District Court within
thirty (30) days of the date of the decision. (Ord. 2016-10-13, 10-13-2016)
5-7-6: PENALTY:
Any person found in violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class C
misdemeanor and subject to imprisonment and/or fines as provided by law.
Violations of this chapter shall also constitute a public nuisance and may be
enjoined and abated as such by the Town. (Ord. 2016-10-13, 10-13-2016)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted By Reference
6-1-2: Motor Vehicle Usage On Public Or Private Property
6-1-3: Speed Limits
6-1-4: Vehicle Weight Limits
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah Traffic Code, Utah Code Annotated title 41,
as amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction, Class C misdemeanor or
Class B misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the Town. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this section and each such violation
shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 81-A, 1981; amd. 2017 Code)
6-1-2: MOTOR VEHICLE USAGE ON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Gaining Entry Requires Permission: It shall be unlawful for any person
to take down any fence, let down any bars, open any gate, or to ride or drive
upon the premises of another without the permission of the owner or the
occupant thereof.
   B.   Town Owned Property Not Designated: It is unlawful for any person to
drive or park any motor vehicle, motorcycle or motor driven cycle upon any Town
owned property not designated for vehicular traffic, or park on the same,
without the permission of the Town Council.
   C.   Private Property: It is unlawful for any person to operate any type of
motor vehicle, including, but not limited to, motorcycles, trail bikes, dune
buggies, motor scooters, jeeps or all-terrain vehicles, upon the private
property of another, without first obtaining written permission of the person
in lawful possession of the premises, or if the property is unoccupied, the
owner of the property.
   D.   Public Property: It is unlawful for any person to operate any type of
motor vehicle, including, but not limited to, motorcycles, trail bikes, dune
buggies, motor scooters, jeeps or all-terrain vehicles, upon any public
property, except dedicated streets, highways or alleys, without first obtaining
the written permission of the public entity which is in possession of such
property, or if the property is unoccupied, the public entity which owns said
property.
   E.   Written Permission: Every person who operates any type of motor vehicle
upon the private property of another or upon any public property, except as
hereinabove provided, at all times while so operating such motor vehicle, shall
maintain in his possession the written permission required by subsections C and
D of this section, except that, if the same document grants permission to two
(2) or more persons, a person named in said document need not have in his
possession, while another person named in the said document riding in the same
group, and not more than three hundred feet (300') from said person, has such
document in his possession.
   F.   Exceptions: This section shall not prohibit the use of such property by
the following:
      1.   Emergency vehicles;
      2.   Vehicles of commerce in the course of normal business operation;
      3.   Vehicles being operated on property devoted to commercial or
industrial purposes where such operating is in conjunction with the commercial
or industrial use, and permission for such operation is implied or expressly
given by the person in possession of said property;
      4.   Vehicles operated on property actually used for residential purposes
when such vehicles are there at the expressed or implied invitation of the
owner or occupants;
      5.   Vehicles being operated on public or private parking lots where
permission to do so is implied or expressly given by the person in possession
of such lot. (Ord. 76-4, 1976)
6-1-3: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Posted Limit:
      1.   It is unlawful for a person to operate a vehicle at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the
actual and potential hazards then existing.
      2.   Any speed in excess of the limits specified in subsection C of this
section is prima facie evidence that the speed is not reasonable or prudent and
that it is unlawful under subsection A1 of this section. (Ord. 98-1, 4-6-1998)
      3.   The Mayor may determine, on the basis of an engineering and/or
traffic investigation, a reasonable and safe prima facie speed limit different
than that specified in subsection C of this section. Such speed limit is
effective when appropriate signs giving notice are erected at an intersection
or other place or part of a street. When such signs are in place, any speed in
excess of the posted limits is prima facie evidence that the speed is not
reasonable or prudent and that it is unlawful under subsection A1 of this
section. (Ord. 98-1, 4-6-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Safe And Appropriate Speeds At Certain Locations:
      1.   A person may not operate a vehicle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the existing conditions, giving regard to the
actual and potential hazards then existing, including, when:
         a.   Approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade
crossing;
         b.   Approaching and going around a curve;
         c.   Approaching a hill crest;
         d.   Traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway; and
         e.   Special hazards exist due to pedestrians, other traffic, weather
or highway conditions.
      2.   If no special hazard exists, and subject to subsection A of this
section, the following speeds are lawful:
         a.   Twenty (20) miles per hour in a reduced speed school zone as
defined in subsection C of this section;
         b.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour in any residential district,
unless otherwise posted;
         c.   Forty (40) miles per hour on Connor Avenue (Highway 36) within
the Town limits.
      3.   Except as provided in subsections A and C of this section, any speed
in excess of the limits provided in subsection B2 of this section, is prima
facie evidence that the speed is not reasonable or prudent and that it is
unlawful.
   C.   School Zones:
      1.   As used in this section "reduced speed school zone" means a
designated length of a highway or street extending from a school speed limit
sign while the warning lights are operating to an end school zone sign.
      2.   While children are going to or leaving school during opening and
closing hours, all reduced speed school zones shall have:
         a.   The warning lights operating on each school speed limit sign; and
         b.   A school crossing guard present if the reduced speed school zone
is for an elementary school.
      3.   A person may not operate a vehicle at a speed greater than twenty
(20) miles per hour in a reduced speed school zone, as defined in subsection C1
of this section.
      4.   a. A violation of this subsection C is an infraction and the minimum
fine is as follows:
            (1)   For a first offense, the fine shall be calculated according
to the following schedule:
 
Vehicle Speed              Minimum Fine
21 - 29 miles per hour     $ 50.00
30 - 39 miles per hour     125.00
40 miles per hour and over 275.00
 
            (2)   For a second and subsequent offense within three (3) years or
a previous conviction or bail forfeiture, the fine shall be calculated
according to the following schedule:
 
Vehicle Speed              Minimum Fine
21 - 29 miles per hour     $ 75.00
30 - 39 miles per hour     225.00
40 miles per hour and over 525.00
 
         b.   (1) Except as provided under subsection C4a(2) of this section,
the court may order the person to perform community service in lieu of a fine,
or any portion of the fine.
            (2)   The court shall order the person to perform community service
observing a crossing guard if the conviction is for a:
               (A)   First offense with a vehicle speed of thirty (30) miles
per hour or more; or
               (B)   Second and subsequent offenses within three (3) years of a
previous conviction or bail forfeiture.
            (3)   The court may waive the community service required under
subsection C4b(2) of this section if the court makes the reasons for the waiver
part of the record.
   D.   Driving Too Slow: A person may not operate a motor vehicle at a speed
as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except
when:
      1.   Reduced speed is necessary for safe operation;
      2.   Upon a grade; or
      3.   In compliance with official traffic control devices.
   E.   Speed Or Acceleration Contests:
      1.   A person may not engage in any vehicle exhibition of speed or engage
in any speed contest on any street or alley or aid or abet in any motor vehicle
speed contest on any street or alley.
      2.   A person may not, for the purpose of facilitating, aiding or
inducing any vehicle speed contest or exhibition or vehicle acceleration
contest or exhibition in any manner obstruct or place any barricade or
obstruction or assist or participate in placing any barricade or obstruction
upon any street or alley.
   F.   Violations; Speed Stated In Citation: In every charge of violation of
any speed provision of this section, the complaint and summons or notice to
appear shall specify the speed at which the defendant is alleged to have
operated a vehicle, and the prima facie speed applicable within the district or
at the location. (Ord. 98-1, 4-6-1998)
   G.   Bail Amount: Exhibit A on file in the Town, shall have the breakdown of
bail amounts for speeding over the limit, which said exhibit may be changed
from time to time as necessary. (Ord. 98-1, 4-6-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
6-1-4: VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS:
There is a weight limit hereby established on Town streets to be thirty five
thousand (35,000) pounds. Anything over that weight limit is restricted, except
that those contractors doing building construction may apply to the Town for a
temporary permit allowing a greater weight limit for a stated period of time.
Other vehicles needing a temporary permit for greater weight limit will be
looked at on a case by case basis by the Road Department and/or Town Engineer.
All permit fees will be set by resolution adopted by the Town Council. (Ord.
02-10, 10-21-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
RAILROADS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Adoption Of State Manuals
6-2-2: Electricity Rates
6-2-3: Service Of Citations
6-2-4: Operation Regulations
6-2-5: Construction Of Tracks
6-2-6: Repair Of Streets And Sidewalks
6-2-7: Penalty
6-2-1: ADOPTION OF STATE MANUALS:
   A.   The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, as adopted by the U.S.
Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, effective April
1, 1977, shall be incorporated herein as a part of this chapter and enforceable
under the enforcement provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways,
as adopted by the State Highway Commission, shall be incorporated herein as a
part of this chapter and enforceable under the enforcement provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 07-01, 1-11-2007)
6-2-2: ELECTRICITY RATES:
It shall be the duty of any person furnishing any lights to the Town to furnish
electric lights at the crossings where lights or signals are to be maintained,
at and for the same prices furnished by the Town for street lighting. (Ord. 07-
01, 1-11-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
6-2-3: SERVICE OF CITATIONS:
Citations for offenses against this chapter by a railroad corporation shall be
served upon any responsible local officer, freight agent or passenger agent of
the railroad by any Police Officer or Court Bailiff of the Town. (Ord. 07-01,
1-11-2007)
6-2-4: OPERATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Switchyards: The switchyards of the Town shall be defined as follows:
starting at north end of Stockton Bar and ending south end of Stockton Bar;
starting south of the Silver Avenue armed crossing and ending approximately
one-half (1/2) block south of Silver Avenue.
   B.   Warning Signals On Gates Required:
      1.   All railroads passing through any part of the Town who maintain
safety at the intersection of their respective right- of-way with any public
highway in the Town at grade crossings shall equip all the gates with electric
lights or warning signals of sufficient power and intensity to warn approaching
vehicles or pedestrians that the gates are closed.
      2.   All railroads operating in the Town and having or using a railroad
crossing in the Town are hereby required to maintain in continuous and proper
working condition all grade crossing equipment and safety devices so as not to
unnecessarily impede or adversely affect traffic or adversely affect the health
and welfare of the community.
      3.   All railroads operating in the Town and having or using a railroad
crossing shall be required to install all crossing equipment as required by the
Department of Transportation.
   C.   Restrictions On Traffic; Exception:
      1.   Railroad traffic shall not obstruct, block or otherwise impede
vehicular traffic on any crossing within the Town during any hours, except as
provided herein.
      2.   Prohibited railroad traffic shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
         a.   Traffic originating outside of and moving into the Town utilizing
public streets for this movement with the hours set forth in this section, when
the traffic shall have as its next destination or stopping point a point
outside of the Town.
         b.   Traffic originating outside of and moving into the Town utilizing
public streets for this movement within the hours set forth in this section,
when the traffic shall have its next destination or stopping point a point
inside of the Town.
         c.   Traffic originating within the Town to any other point within the
Town over any public street or railroad crossing within the Town within the
hours set forth in this section.
         d.   Traffic originating inside of and moving outside of the Town
utilizing public streets for this movement with the hours set forth in this
section, when the traffic shall have as its next destination or stopping point
a point outside of the Town.
      3.   Subsection C1 of this section shall not apply to those specific
railroad trains carrying passengers for hire and operating as interstate or
intrastate common carriers.
   D.   Lights Required: Every locomotive engine, railroad car or train of
cars, running in the nighttime on any railroad track in the Town, shall have
and keep while so running a brilliant and conspicuous light on the forward end
of the locomotive engine or train of cars, and in case any engine, car or train
shall be run backward at that time, the light shall be kept at the rear end
thereof.
   E.   Speed: Locomotive engines moving in a northerly or southerly direction
on any railroad crossing in the Town shall not exceed a speed of forty five
(45) miles per hour.
   F.   Watchman Required: It shall be unlawful for any railroad company,
conductor, engineer or any other person managing any car, locomotive or train
of cars to run the same backward in or through the Town without a watcher or
other person on the rear end of the car, locomotive or train, or to shove any
car in the Town by means of locomotive engine power without a watchman on the
forward end of the car.
   G.   Standing Cars: It is unlawful for any railroad company or any person
operating or having charge or control of any railroad train, railroad car or
engine within the Town:
      1.   To permit, allow or cause any train, railroad car or engine to stand
at any intersection of any street, sidewalk or alley, for a period longer than
fifteen (15) minutes at any one (1) time, without allowing vehicles and
pedestrians to cross the railroad tracks, except when necessary to comply with
governmental safety regulations or where the train, railroad car or engine
cannot be removed by reason of circumstances over which the railroad company
has no control.
      2.   To obstruct any intersection of any street, sidewalk or alley for a
period longer than fifteen (15) minutes at any one (1) time by switching,
without allowing vehicles and pedestrians to cross the railroad tracks over any
such street, sidewalk or alley, except when necessary to comply with
governmental safety regulations or where the train, railroad car or engine
cannot be removed by reason of circumstances over which the railroad company
has no control.
      3.   This section shall not apply to trains, railroad cars or engines in
motion, other than those engaged in switching.
      4.   This section is enacted to promote the public interest and welfare
of the residents of the Town and those using its public streets and alleys, not
to control railroad safety, thus its enactment shall not supplant current Utah
law governing "negligence" or the lack thereof by railroads, their employees
and/or agents at street, sidewalk and alleyway crossings.
   H.   Cattle Cars:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company owning and controlling
any railroad running through the Town or any person in their employ to permit
cattle cars, which have been in recent use and are unclean, to stand on any
siding or sidetrack within the Town for a longer period of four (4) hours.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or controlling a railroad
through the Town or persons in their employ to remove the straw manure from a
cattle car and to clean the cars within the Town. (Ord. 07-01, 1-11-2007)
6-2-5: CONSTRUCTION OF TRACKS:
   A.   Permission Required To Lay Tracks: It shall be unlawful for any person
to lay on or across any street, alley or public place in the Town any railroad
track without first obtaining permission from the Town Council.
   B.   Conformity With Street Grades Required:
      1.   When any street or highway in the Town is to be built and improved
to an established grade, then any person owning, constructing, maintaining or
operating any street railway over, across or along any street or highway in the
Town shall conform all railway tracks, including switches, turnouts, spur
tracks and crossovers to the established grade.
      2.   Whenever a contract shall be let for the building and improvement of
any street or highway in the Town to an established grade and any street
railway track established grade, then the Town shall notify, in writing, the
person owning or maintaining the tracks that the work necessary to conform the
tracks to an established grade shall be commenced within fifteen (15) days
after the service of the notice and complete as soon as reasonably possible.
      3.   Whenever a contract has been let for the building and improvement of
any street or highway in the Town to an established grade, and any street car
tracks running over, across or along the street do not conform to the
established grade, the Town Engineer, upon request, shall furnish a grade and
also, the lines of the street occupied by the tracks to the person maintaining
the tracks.
      4.   All railroads operating in the Town and having or using a railroad
crossing in the Town are hereby required to maintain the street crossing grade
so as not to impede traffic or adversely affect traffic.
   C.   Permission Required To Change Track Elevation On Highway: It shall be
unlawful for any railroad operating through, along, upon and across any public
highway in the Town at grade to either raise or lower the rails of the railroad
at the point where the railroad intersects any highway without first procuring
from the Town Council permission to do so in writing.
   D.   Removing Tracks In Violation:
      1.   Upon the direction from the Mayor or the Town Council, the Road
Department shall tear out any railroad track so laid in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, and remove the same from any street, alley or
public place on which it is found or has been laid.
      2.   The Road Department shall keep an itemized account for the expense
incurred by him or her in the tearing up and removal of tracks, and he/she
shall thereupon institute suit against the offending person for the recovery of
the expense.
   E.   Materials To Be Used: It shall be the duty of all railroads or railroad
companies operating a line of railroads through the Town to erect and construct
all street crossings over which their railroad crosses, with asphalt, concrete
slabs or other materials specified by the Town for the full width of their
right-of-way. (Ord. 07-01, 1-11-2007)
6-2-6: REPAIR OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Authority Of Town Council To Order Construction Or Repair:
      1.   Whenever any street or sidewalk crossing on property owned by any
railroad company shall be out of repair, the Town Council may, by resolution,
order the owner to construct a new sidewalk, repair, raise or lower the street
or sidewalk crossing and may also order that the width and riding quality of
the roadway surface at a grade crossing should, as a minimum, be restored to
correspond with the approaches to the crossing. (Ord. 07-01, 1-11-2007)
      2.   The Town Council shall, in the resolution, prescribe the time in
which the repairs shall be completed, material to be used therein, and the
manner of doing the repairs.
   B.   Notice:
      1.   a. When the resolution has passed, the Town Clerk shall, as soon as
practicable thereafter, issue and cause to be served by the police force a
written notice informing the company or companies of the adoption of the
resolution which is filed in the Town Clerk's Office, where it may be inspected
by them. (Ord. 07-01, 1-11-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
         b.   The notice shall specify the time limited for making a new
construction or repair and description of the street and sidewalk crossing to
be so repaired. In case the company is a nonresident of the Town, the notice
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the crossing or parts thereof.
         c.   It shall be the duty of the company or companies to make the new
construction or repairs in the manner prescribed in the ordinance and within
the time limited therefor under the direction of the Town Engineer and to his/
her satisfaction and acceptance.
      2.   a. In case any street or sidewalk crossing shall be so out of repair
as to be dangerous for use, the Road Department shall, without action of the
Town Council, at once give a written notice to the company or companies in case
they are a resident of the Town and in case they are nonresidents of the Town
or cannot be found, no notice shall be required to immediately repair the
street or sidewalk crossing.
         b.   In case of failure to do so, the Road Department shall cause the
new construction or repairs to be made, at once, under the direction of the
Town Engineer and to his/her satisfaction and acceptance.
         c.   Thereupon, proceedings shall be had for the assessment of the
costs on the property and the collection of the costs as provided for in this
chapter. (Ord. 07-01, 1-11-2007)
   C.   Failure To Comply; Construction Or Repair By Town:
      1.   In case any company shall fail or refuse to comply with the
requirements of the resolution in the new construction or repair of a sidewalk,
the Town Engineer shall notify the Road Department of the failure or refusal,
and the Road Department shall, as soon as practicable, make the new
construction or repairs specified and required under the direction of the Town
Engineer and to his/her satisfaction and acceptance. In the event the Road
Department does not have the necessary personnel or equipment available to make
the new construction or repairs, the Town Engineer, with the approval of the
Town Council, may, in accordance with the law, assign the work to a private
contractor. (Ord. 07-01, 1-11-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
      2.   The Road Department shall report to the Town Council the costs of
the new construction or repair in detail, giving the name of the owner and a
description of the street or sidewalk crossing liable therefor, and the amount
for which each is chargeable and the certificate of the Town Engineer attached
showing that the work has been properly done and brought to the established
grade.
   D.   Town To Have Lien; Assessment And Collection Of Costs:
      1.   The Town shall hold and have a lien on all lots and parts thereof
abutting on any street or sidewalk crossing so newly constructed or repaired by
the Road Department or private contractor for the costs thereof; and the lien
shall begin at the time of the completion of the repairs. (Ord. 07-01, 1-11-
2007)
      2.   The Town Council shall assess the expenses on the lots or property,
respectively. Thereupon, the Town shall demand payment from the parties against
whom the assessments shall be made.
      3.   In case any of the owners of lots or property or parcels of ground
on which the assessments have been made shall fail or refuse, for the space of
twenty (20) days after the date of the assessment by the Town Council, to pay
the amount due by the company to the Town, it shall be the duty of the County
Treasurer, in behalf of the Town, to file his/her affidavit in the Town Clerk's
Office, stating that the whole or some part of the assessment remains unpaid,
showing the amount paid and the amount due and remaining unpaid, and stating
that the estimate thereof has been duly made and that work estimated has been
done according to the provisions of this chapter and the resolution ordering
the work. (Ord. 07-01, 1-11-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
      4.   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk, at the next regular meeting
of the Town Council, to report the affidavit to the Town Council, whose duty it
shall be to cause a precept to be issued for the collection of the assessments
or unpaid balance thereof, in accordance with the provisions of State law.
(Ord. 07-01, 1-11-2007)
6-2-7: PENALTY:
   A.   A violation of this chapter is a Class B misdemeanor. A person,
corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality convicted
of an offense may be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 07-01, 1-11-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Each and every day that violation of this chapter continues may be
deemed to constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 07-01, 1-11-2007)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Obstructions
7-1-2: Discharging Water
7-1-3: Driving Or Riding On Sidewalk
7-1-4: Depositing Material On Street
7-1-5: Snow Event Parking Restrictions; Removal Of Vehicles; Penalty
7-1-6: Snow To Be Removed From Public Sidewalks; Penalty
7-1-7: Unlawful Acts And Activities
7-1-1: OBSTRUCTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control of any
premises to place or permit placing upon the sidewalk or the half of the street
next to the premises:
   A.   Any broken ware, glass, filth, rubbish, refuse matter, ice, water, mud,
garbage, ashes, tin cans or other substances.
   B.   Any vehicle, lumber, wood, boxes, fencing, building materials, dead
trees, tree stumps, merchandise or other thing which shall obstruct such public
street or sidewalk, or any part thereof, or the free use and enjoyment thereof,
or the free passage over and upon the same, or any part thereof, without the
permission of the Town Council. (1960 Code § 12-1)
7-1-2: DISCHARGING WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control of any
premises to suffer or permit irrigation or well water or water from any other
source under the control of such person, to be discharged and spread upon the
surface of any sidewalk or street. (1960 Code § 12-2)
7-1-3: DRIVING OR RIDING ON SIDEWALK:
No person shall drive, ride, lead or leave, or cause to be driven, ridden, led
or left, any animal or vehicle upon or along any public sidewalk, except at
established crossings. (1960 Code § 12-3)
7-1-4: DEPOSITING MATERIAL ON STREET:
It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally or carelessly to throw, cast,
put into, drop or leave in any street, gutter, sidewalk or public place any
stones, gravel, sand, coal, dirt, manure, garbage, leaves, lawn or hedge
clippings or rubbish of any kind, or any other substances which shall render
such highway unsafe or unsightly, or shall interfere with travel thereon. (1960
Code § 12-7)
7-1-5: SNOW EVENT PARKING RESTRICTIONS; REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; PENALTY:
   A.   No person shall park a vehicle on any street for a period longer than
one hour during or within twenty four (24) hours of a snow event. "Snow event"
shall be defined to mean: 1) any occasion on which snow is falling, or 2) the
twenty four (24) hours following a snow fall to a depth of one inch (1") or
more.
   B.   Any vehicle parked upon the roadway that is in violation of this
section may be removed at the discretion of the Stockton Police Department for
obstructing the Town's snow removal efforts.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   Emergency vehicles and personnel in the performance of their duties.
      2.   Stockton Town Public Works employees in the performance of their
duties.
   D.   A violation of this section is an infraction punishable by up to a one
hundred dollar ($100.00) fine. (Ord. 2019-04, 2-14-2019)
7-1-6: SNOW TO BE REMOVED FROM PUBLIC SIDEWALKS; PENALTY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person owning or exercising control over any
real property abutting any public sidewalk to fail to remove or cause to be
removed from such sidewalk all hail, snow, or sleet falling thereon, or ice
forming thereon, within twenty four (24) hours after such hail, snow, or sleet
has ceased falling or ice has formed.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to place or propel, or cause to be placed
or propelled, snow, ice, hail, or sleet into the public way or in any manner
which poses a hazard to vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   C.   Any person who fails to comply with this section shall be liable for a
civil penalty in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) per violation, which
penalty shall be in addition to other penalties provided by law.
   D.   For purposes of this section:
    PERSON: Shall include, but not be limited to, individuals, corporations,
partnerships, associations, organizations, groups, and other entities.
   PUBLIC WAY: Shall include, but not be limited to, sidewalks, roadways,
alleys, and other courses traveled by the public. (Ord. 2019-05, 2-14-2019)
7-1-7: UNLAWFUL ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Opening Sidewalks: It is unlawful to construct or maintain any open
holes or other openings regardless whether they are covered with gateways,
doors or other passages in any sidewalks. This provision shall not be
interpreted as to prevent the erection of utility poles or mailboxes on the
first foot of property inside the curb line.
   B.   Water From Roof Discharging On Sidewalks: It is unlawful for any person
owning or occupying or having control of any premises to suffer or permit water
from the roof or eaves of any house, building or structure, or from any other
source under the control of such person, to be discharged upon the surface of
any sidewalk.
   C.   Receiving Goods: It is unlawful for any person to place or keep, or
suffer to be placed or kept, upon any sidewalk or adjacent to the premises of
said person, any goods, wares, or merchandise without leaving at least six feet
(6') of open passage upon said sidewalk, or to leave any wares, goods or
merchandise upon a sidewalk for more than one hour.
   D.   Driving Or Riding Upon Sidewalks: It is unlawful for any person to
drive a self-propelled vehicle or team, or lead, drive or ride any animal or
vehicle, upon any sidewalk, except to cross the sidewalk at established
crossings.
   E.   Games On Sidewalks Or Streets: It is unlawful for any person to
obstruct any sidewalk or street by playing games thereon, or to annoy or
obstruct the free travel of any foot passenger or vehicle.
   F.   Clogging Gutters: It is unlawful for any person to deposit dirt, leaves
or other debris in any gutter so as to prevent the unhindered flow of water
therein, or so as to provide for the carriage of said debris by the water
flowing therein.
   G.   Sweeping In Front Of Retail Businesses: It is unlawful for the owner,
occupant, lessee or agent of any commercial, retail or professional
establishment within the Town to fail to cause the sidewalk abutting said
establishment to be swept clean each morning before the hour of nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M.
   H.   Encroachments: It is unlawful for any fence, building or other
structure to encroach upon any street or sidewalk within the Town. The Town
may, in writing, require the encroachment to be removed by a date certain, not
to exceed thirty (30) days from the date of notice. If the person responsible
for the encroachment is not known, the notice of such removal shall be posted
on the encroachment and on all major buildings located adjacent to the
encroachment. Should the encroachment, in the opinion of the Mayor, constitute
a hazard to traffic or to life, limb or property, the same may be removed
immediately by the Town and the cost thereof levied upon the owner. Any
encroachment not removed by the owner within the thirty (30) day period, or
less if a lesser period was provided by the notice, the Town shall remove the
same at the owner's expense, levying the cost thereof against the premises as
part of the ad valorem Property Taxes.
   I.   Obstructions: No person shall place or cause to be placed anywhere upon
a public street or sidewalk, and no person owning, occupying or having control
of any premises shall, after reasonable notice by the Town, suffer to be or
remain in front thereof upon the sidewalk or the half of the street next to any
premises:
      1.   Any broken ware, glass, filth, rubbish, refuse, garbage, ashes, tin
cans or other like substances.
      2.   Any vehicles, lumber, wood, boxes, fencing, building material,
merchandise or other thing which shall obstruct such public street or sidewalk,
or any part thereof, without the permission of the Mayor.
      3.   Any goods, wares, merchandise for sale or show, or otherwise beyond
the front line of the lot where goods, wares or merchandise may be sold. (Ord.
2019-12, 8-8-2019)
CHAPTER 2
STREETS IN UNDEVELOPED AND UNIMPROVED AREAS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Construction Requirements
7-2-2: Recoup Of Expenses
7-2-3: Corner Lots
7-2-4: Receipts Required Prior To Inspection Or Certificate Of Occupancy
7-2-5: Construction By Town
7-2-1: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
Any person or developer applying for a new primary residential building permit
in an undeveloped or unimproved area shall put in the street to the property
line from an existing improved street. Said street will be paved, at the
property owner's expense, to the minimum standards of twenty four feet (24')
wide, with the pavement twelve feet (12') on both sides of the centerline.
Streets will have eight inches (8") of road base and three inches (3") of
asphalt, and plans shall be approved by the Town Engineer before construction
begins. Contractors putting in the streets must be bonded. (Ord. 99-5a, 8-13-
2001)
7-2-2: RECOUP OF EXPENSES:
Any person or developer required to put in more street than just abutting his
property shall have ten (10) years to recoup actual expenses from anyone
connecting to said street. (Ord. 99-5a, 8-13-2001)
7-2-3: CORNER LOTS:
Any person or developer building on a corner lot will be responsible for paving
both streets. If there is access to the property from a paved street, a permit
will be issued and the unimproved street will be assessed to the property when
the street is constructed. (Ord. 99-5a, 8-13-2001)
7-2-4: RECEIPTS REQUIRED PRIOR TO INSPECTION OR CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
Before a final inspection or certificate of occupancy is issued, the street
must be finished and the builder must furnish the Town with original receipts
and a list of expenses for use in determining what new builders on that street
will be charged. (Ord. 99-5a, 8-13-2001)
7-2-5: CONSTRUCTION BY TOWN:
If the Town constructs any unimproved street, the cost will be assessed to the
property owners on that street at actual cost. (Ord. 99-5a, 8-13-2001)
CHAPTER 3
PARKS AND RECREATION
SECTION:
7-3-1: Intent And Purpose
7-3-2: Supervision Of Parks
7-3-3: Use Of Facilities For Profit
7-3-4: Permit Required
7-3-5: Application For Permit
7-3-6: Restrictions To Park Use
7-3-7: Penalty
7-3-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
It is the intent and purpose of the Town Council, in a manner that will promote
the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare
to the present and future inhabitants of the Town, to regulate the Parks and
Recreation Departments as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 01-08, 7-9-2001)
7-3-2: SUPERVISION OF PARKS:
All parks and recreation facilities of the Town shall be under the supervision
of the Mayor or a designee. (Ord. 01-08, 7-9-2001; amd. 2017 Code)
7-3-3: USE OF FACILITIES FOR PROFIT:
No amusement for gain or profit, or for which a charge of admission is taken,
shall be conducted upon a Town park or recreation facility without the consent
of the Town Council being given first and obtained in writing. All such uses
shall be subject to all rules and regulations imposed by the Town Council by
ordinance or as a condition of the granting of permission to so use the park or
facility. (Ord. 01-08, 7-9-2001)
7-3-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or organize any assembly
or group of people, or make any speeches, conduct any musical program, festival
or party in any park or recreation facility unless a permit has been first
obtained from Town Clerk, or the Mayor or a designee, for the said activity.
(Ord. 01-08, 7-9-2001; amd. 2017 Code)
7-3-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
A park or recreation permit shall be granted with applicable fees paid, to any
person who completes an application therefor, which includes the following
information and is filed at the Town office at least ten (10) days prior to the
date of anticipated use; provided, that no prior permit for the same facility
during conflicting time periods has been issued:
   A.   The name, address and phone number of the person or organization
wishing to conduct an activity.
   B.   The date, time and place the said activity shall be conducted.
   C.   The name of the responsible person conducting said activity on behalf
of the organization, including the residential address, mailing address and
phone number of said person.
   D.   If applicable, the business address and mailing address of the
sponsoring organization, and its telephone number.
   E.   A description of the activity to be conducted.
   F.   The hour the activity will commence and terminate.
   G.   A statement signed by a representative of the organization or group
making application to the effect that the persons responsible will not permit
any person attending said facility to:
      1.   Breach any Town ordinance or State law;
      2.   Damage the park, recreation facility or any appurtenances or
property used in connection with said park or recreation facility;
      3.   Interfere with any other lawful activity being conducted upon any
park or recreation facility;
      4.   Deposit litter, garbage, refuse, wastepaper, cans, bottles or other
waste or nuisance material upon said park or recreation facility, except in
containers specifically provided for such;
      5.   Engage in any activity which will require the diversion of peace
officers to the location of the activity upon a park, recreation facility or
property adjacent thereto, other than as required by normal patrol;
      6.   Conduct any activity which is reasonably likely to cause injury to
person or property, incite violence, crime or disorderly conduct;
      7.   Conduct any activity which is reasonably likely to interfere or
detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety and recreation.
   H.   Confirm the date of use one week prior to scheduled date of use.
   I.   If keys to park areas are needed for the activity, they need to be
picked up the day before the event or Friday if the activity is on the weekend.
Keys are to be turned in the day after the activity or Monday if the activity
is on the weekend.
   J.   Cancellations must be received at the Town Hall three (3) working days
prior to the reservation date to receive a full refund.
   K.   Requests for a refund may be made in writing or by phone and, if a
refund is granted, it will be mailed to the person or organization making the
reservation. Refunds will not be issued to anyone who fails to cancel
reservations as outlined. (Ord. 2019-08, 3-14-2019)
7-3-6: RESTRICTIONS TO PARK USE:
It is unlawful for any person to either perform or permit to be performed any
of the following acts upon a Town park or recreation facility:
   A.   Wilfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or
remove any building, bridge, table, bench, fireplace, railing, backstop, sign,
notice, monument, stake, post or other appurtenance to said park or recreation
facility, including landscaping or garbage containers.
   B.   Fail to clean up all debris, extinguish all fires when such are
permitted to be built, or leave said premises in good order and neat and
sanitary condition.
   C.   Throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed or left in
any waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream or other body or container of
water in or adjacent to any park or recreation facility any material or
substance which will or may result in the pollution of said water.
   D.   Bring in or dump, deposit, leave or cause to be deposited or left
anywhere on the grounds of any park or recreation facility any bottles, broken
glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse or
trash, except in proper receptacles for the same where provided, and if none
are provided or the same are already full, failing to carry said items away
from the park or recreation facility and properly dispose of the same
elsewhere.
   E.   Disturb the peace and good order of the Town or other persons lawfully
upon the premises of said park or recreation facility.
   F.   Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or act.
   G.   Commit any assault or engage in any fight.
   H.   Drive or park any automobile upon the premises of said park or
recreation facility in any place except a properly designated parking area or
street.
   I.   Paste, glue, tack, post or make any sign or other lettering,
advertisement or inscription whatsoever upon any appurtenance or personal
property of a park or recreation facility.
   J.   Allow any pets or animals of any kind inside fenced areas of any park
or recreation facility, unless said animal is for the purpose of assisting
handicapped persons or for law enforcement purposes.
   K.   Allow any motorized vehicle inside fenced areas of any park or
recreation facility, unless said motorized vehicle is for the purpose of
assisting handicapped persons or is for law enforcement or park maintenance
purposes. (Ord. 2019-08, 3-14-2019)
7-3-7: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any rule or regulation governing
conduct in any Town park or recreation facility, including the provisions of
this chapter. Any such violation shall be a Class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 01-08, 7-9-2001; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CEMETERY
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Name Of Cemetery
7-4-3: Cemetery Sexton
7-4-4: Fees And Charges
7-4-5: Interments
7-4-6: Disinterments
7-4-7: Sale Of Burial Rights
7-4-8: Reclamation
7-4-9: Perpetual Care
7-4-10: Capital Improvement Fund
7-4-11: Monuments And Markers
7-4-12: Decoration Of Graves
7-4-13: Fencing, Copings Or Plantings
7-4-14: Hours Of Operation
7-4-15: Traffic And Safety Regulations
7-4-16: Defacement And Littering
7-4-17: Animals In Cemetery
7-4-18: Penalty
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words or phrases shall have the following meanings, unless the
context otherwise clearly indicates:
BLOCK: A land area of one (1) or more lots.
CEMETERY: Any cemetery owned or maintained by the Town of Stockton for the
purpose of receiving the remains of deceased humans for earth interments.
CEMETERY OFFICE: The main office maintained at the Stockton Town Hall.
CERTIFICATE: A burial right certificate.
CERTIFICATE HOLDER: The owner or purchaser of burial rights and privileges, or
the collateral right of use of any burial plot, evidenced by a burial right
certificate or by proved and recognized descent or devise from the original
owner.
COUNCIL OR TOWN COUNCIL: The Town Council of the Town of Stockton, Utah.
HUMAN REMAINS: Any portion relating to that of a deceased human being.
LOT: Numbered divisions as shown on the record plat, which consists of two (2)
or more plots.
LOT MARKER: The cement blocks approximately six inches by six inches by twelve
inches (6" x 6" x 12") used by the cemetery and located in the northeast corner
of the lot or plot.
MARKER: A headstone flush with the surface of the ground made of granite,
marble or metal substances.
MONUMENT: A tombstone or headstone of granite, marble or metal substances,
which shall extend above the surface of the ground or at least twelve inches
(12") in height or higher, but not exceeding four and one-half feet (41/2') in
height.
PERPETUAL CARE: The maintenance care that the Town agrees to give and shall
consist of care of the cemetery generally, but shall not include repairing or
replacing marker or monument structures of any nature, except when the need for
repair or replacement is directly caused by the Town.
PERSON: An individual, group, partnership, firm, corporation or association.
PLAT: A land area designated by a letter in the alphabet (namely A, B, C, D and
E) that is bordered by roadways and is one (1) or more blocks.
PLOT: A space of sufficient size to accommodate one (1) adult interment,
approximately forty inches by ninety six inches (40" x 96"), or one (1) infant
interment approximately twenty eight inches by fifty two inches (28" x 52").
RESIDENT: A. Any person who was domiciled within the Town limits of Stockton,
Utah, at the time of death, regardless of the actual place of death.
   B.   Any person owning real property within the Town limits of Stockton,
Utah, at the time of death, regardless of the residence or domicile of such
person.
   C.   Any person who was a legal resident of Stockton, Utah, at the time of
death, regardless of domicile.
   D.   Any person who was formerly domiciled within the Town limits of
Stockton, Utah, immediately prior to moving from the Town for the purpose of
receiving medical or residential care.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Any person selected by the family of the deceased to act in
its behalf and can include the heir apparent, religious leader, mortician,
funeral director, or any other person the family selects in choosing graves,
making available information on the deceased party, and taking full liability
for the family obligations concerning the services performed on the cemetery's
property.
SEXTON: The appointed keeper of the cemetery as appointed by the Town Council
and whose duties are described in this chapter.
TOWN: The Town of Stockton, Utah, whether or not so designated.
WORDS: Single words shall include the plural, and masculine words shall include
the feminine and neuter. (Ord. 01-15, 10-15-2001)
7-4-2: NAME OF CEMETERY:
The burial ground of this Town shall be known and designated by the name of
Stockton Cemetery. (Ord. 01-15, 10-15-2001)
7-4-3: CEMETERY SEXTON:
   A.   Created: The position of Cemetery Sexton is hereby created. The hiring
of the Cemetery Sexton shall be under the direction of the Parks Director, or
the Mayor or a designee, and approved by the Town Council. (Ord. 01-15, 10-15-
2001)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Maintenance Of Cemetery: It shall be the duty of the Cemetery
Sexton, or his representative, to supervise, manage, operate, maintain and
improve the cemetery in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the
rules and regulations adopted by the Town Council.
      2.   Cemetery Records: It shall be his duty to keep a true and correct
plat of the cemetery, showing the location of all burial plots and such other
information as the Town Council may prescribe, and shall keep or have kept such
other records regarding the cemetery as the Town Council shall direct.
      3.   Layout, Digging Of Ground: He shall direct the layout and digging of
all graves required for burial therein, to direct all removals, changes and
other authorized operations.
      4.   Funeral Corteges: He shall take charge of all funeral corteges while
in the environs of said cemetery and to regulate all traffic within the
cemetery as deemed necessary.
      5.   Claims Against Cemetery: He shall approve all claims chargeable
against the cemetery and shall furnish such information regarding the cemetery
as the Town Council may from time to time require.
      6.   Employment Of Others: He may employ such help as shall be necessary
to carry out the duties prescribed by the Town Council and with the approval of
the Town Council.
      7.   Additional Regulations: He shall have the authority to promulgate
additional regulations, with the approval of the Town Council, concerning the
care, use, maintenance and government of the cemetery not in conflict herewith,
as shall from time to time prove necessary.
      8.   Authorization Of All Work: Any person or firm desiring to perform
any work within the cemetery must first secure the approval and written
permission of the Sexton. All settings of vases, markers and monuments and all
plantings of trees, shrubs and flowers must be approved by the Sexton before
the work is commenced, and all work shall be performed under his direction.
      9.   Removal Of Grave Decorations And Floral Displays: It shall be the
duty of the Sexton to remove floral pieces or displays left on any grave as he
deems necessary. (Ord. 01-15, 10-15-2001)
7-4-4: FEES AND CHARGES:
The Town Council shall establish fees and charges for the care, use, operation
and maintenance of the cemetery from time to time by resolution. (Ord. 01-15,
10-15-2001)
7-4-5: INTERMENTS:
   A.   Dead Must Be Buried In Cemetery: Nothing other than human remains shall
be interred within the Stockton Cemetery, and no cemetery shall be established
without the express written permission of the Town Council.
   B.   Interment Order Required: Before burying human remains in the cemetery,
there shall be procured from the Cemetery Office an interment order for the
deceased person in such plot, lot, block and plat as may be designated by the
responsible party. This order must be executed forty eight (48) hours prior to
the scheduled funeral service.
   C.   Orders And Responsibilities: Under no circumstances will the Town
assume responsibilities for errors in opening graves when orders are given by
telephone or for any mistake occurring from want of precise and proper
instructions as to the particular plot, size of grave and location where
interment is desired.
   D.   Schedule Use Of Cemetery: Funeral directors must schedule the use of
the cemetery, have the interment order signed, and have fees paid in full
before arrangements with the family are concluded.
   E.   Right Of Ownership To Bury: No person, except the certificate holder of
a lot upon which interment is to be made, shall use a plot or lot in the
cemetery, without first obtaining written permission from the certificate
holder of said lot, or nearest relative of the certificate holder thereof, or
legal heirs, which permission shall be filed with the Cemetery Office.
   F.   Number Of Bodies Per Interment: No interment of two (2) or more bodies
shall be made in one (1) grave, except in the case of a parent and child, or
two (2) infants buried in one (1) casket. In the case of cremation, the number
of vaulted urns per burial plot shall be no more than four (4).
   G.   When Body Must Be Delivered For Burial: The human remains must be
delivered at the cemetery at or before three o'clock (3:00) P.M. November 1 to
April 30, and at or before four o'clock (4:00) P.M. May 1 to October 31 for
interment if the grave is to be filled in with earth the same day.
   H.   No Interments On Sunday Or Holidays: Except in cases of emergency,
there shall be no interments on Sundays or legal holidays observed and approved
by the Town Council. No interments or removals whatsoever will be permitted
between twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the Friday before Memorial Day and
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the Tuesday after Memorial Day.
   I.   All Interments Must Be In Vaults: It shall be unlawful for any remains
to be interred in the cemetery unless the casket or urn shall be placed in a
vault made of reinforced concrete, stone or metal.
   J.   Fees Paid For Opening Grave: No grave will be opened in the cemetery
until the payment of interment fee, burial right fee and other applicable fees
as established from time to time by resolution of the Town Council are paid in
full to the satisfaction of the Town Clerk. The presentation of the interment
order from the Cemetery Office to the Sexton will be his authority to open or
cause to be opened a grave for the burial of the deceased. However, upon a
verbal or written contract being entered into between the mortician and the
Town wherein the said mortician agrees to guarantee, be responsible and liable
for fees for the opening of a grave, or any other applicable fees related to
the interment, and be personally liable for such fees, the Cemetery Office may
give the Sexton authority to open graves. The said mortician then has thirty
(30) days from date of interment to pay in full all outstanding fees related to
his guaranteeing of payment.
   K.   Casket Within Cemetery: Once a casket containing the human remains is
within the confines of the cemetery, no funeral director nor his embalmer,
assistant, employee, agent, or any other person, shall be permitted to open the
casket or to touch the body without the written consent of the legal
representative of the deceased or an order signed by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   L.   Persons Permitted To Open Graves: The Sexton, and those employees of
the Town designated by the Sexton, are the only persons who will be permitted
to open graves with the following exceptions:
      1.   When the cemetery is directed to make a disinterment by order of a
court of competent jurisdiction and a certified copy of such order has been
filed with the Cemetery Office.
      2.   When the coroner directs the disinterment for the purpose of holding
an inquest and has filed with the Cemetery Office his signed authorization to
release the body to himself and his lawful agents. In such case, the
disinterment must be made by the coroner or his lawful agents. Town employees
will not be permitted to assist the coroner or his agents.
   M.   Deceased Identity: The Town will not be liable for the identity of the
person to be interred.
   N.   Burial Of Indigents: The Town Council, with the advice of the Sexton,
may designate a portion of the cemetery for the burial of indigents whenever it
is made to appear to the Sexton, by proof submitted to him by the Town Clerk,
that any person who has died does not have an estate sufficient to pay the
purchase price of burial rights in the cemetery, and the nearest relative or
responsible party of such deceased person desired to have the body of such
deceased interred in said cemetery, the Sexton may grant burial space
privileges for such deceased person at the request made to him by the Town
Clerk. The Sexton shall give report of his decision, whether affirmative or
negative, to the Town Council at their next regular meeting.
   O.   Remuneration To Certificate Holder: Certificate holders shall not allow
interments in their plots or lots in return for remuneration of any kind.
   P.   Interment Responsibility Of Responsible Party: Persons responsible for
the deceased will have full liability for the remains of the deceased when it
enters the grounds of the cemetery and will have complete charge of those
remains and will cause the deceased to be lowered into the grave site. After
this has been accomplished, the Sexton or his representative will take charge
of the remains and will proceed thenceforth with the closing of the grave.
   Q.   Access To Interment Area: The Sexton or his representative has the
perpetual right of ingress and egress over any part of the cemetery burial plat
areas and shall use reasonable care in protecting all existing turf, markers,
monuments, grave flowers, grave decorations, trees or existing shrubbery in
order to cause the opening and closing of graves with the required vehicles,
equipment, tools and personnel.
   R.   Overtime Charges: Saturday services will be charged an additional fee
as set forth by resolution of the Town Council in addition to the standard
interment fee. (Ord. 01-15, 10-15-2001; amd. 2017 Code)
7-4-6: DISINTERMENTS:
   A.   Direction Of Disinterment: No person shall disinter any human remains
in the cemetery, except under the direction of the Sexton. All disinterments
shall comply with applicable State law.
   B.   Order For Disinterment: The order for disinterment shall include the
name of the deceased, when and where born, when and where the place of death
occurred, together with the name of parents and spouse, also the date of
burial, as well as the name of the cemetery, with the initial letter of the
plat, as well as the number of block, lot and burial plot number, and the place
of destination if disinterred and transferred beyond the environs of the
cemetery.
   C.   Burial Transit Permit: If the disinterment is to be transported outside
the environs of the cemetery, the Cemetery Office shall require a written order
for disinterment, together with a burial transit permit from the County
Department of Health, to be executed by the certificate holder or his heirs
authorizing such removal at least one (1) week prior to the day of the
disinterment.
   D.   Disinterment Responsibility: The Town assumes no responsibility
whatsoever for the condition of any casket or vault involved in any removal.
   E.   Disinterment Of Bodies Of Persons Dying From Contagious Diseases: It
shall be unlawful for any person to remove the body of a person who has died of
a contagious disease within two (2) years from the date of burial, unless the
body has been buried in a hermetically sealed coffin or vault, and is found to
be so encased at the time of removal.
   F.   Disinterment Fee: Fees for a disinterment will be charged according to
the work involved, with a base fee established by the Town Council.
   G.   Correction Of Errors: The cemetery reserves and shall have the right to
correct any errors that may be made by it, either in making an interment, a
disinterment or removal, or the description, transfer or conveyance of any
interment property, either by canceling such conveyance and substituting any
conveying in lieu of other interment property of equal value and similar
location as far as possible, or as may be selected by the Cemetery Office, or,
in the sole discretion of the Cemetery Office, by refunding the amount of money
paid on account of said purchase. In the event such error shall involve the
disinterment of the remains of any person in such property, the cemetery
reserves and shall have the right to remove or transfer such remains so
interred to such other property of equal value and similar location as may be
substituted and conveyed in lieu thereof.
   H.   Right Reverts To Town: In the event of disinterment, the right to
burial of said plot reverts to the Town and the value at time of purchase will
be applied to reinterment, if in the Town Cemetery. (Ord. 01-15, 10-15-2001)
7-4-7: SALE OF BURIAL RIGHTS:
   A.   Duties Of Town Clerk: The Town Clerk, and such other persons as the
Town Clerk may designate, are hereby authorized to sell the use of burial plots
in the cemetery for interment purposes only, and to collect all sums arising
from such sale. The Town Clerk shall keep a complete record of all sales, which
record shall describe the location of the burial plots purchased and the price
paid therefor. The purchaser shall receive a receipt describing each right of
use so purchased, together with the amount paid and the balance, if any. The
Town Clerk shall retain a duplicate copy in the cemetery receipt book.
   B.   Price Set By Town Council: The Town Council may establish by resolution
the burial right fee for all cemetery lots or parts thereof, and shall include
the perpetual care fee on said lots or parts thereof.
   C.   Lot Payment Required Prior To Burial: It shall be unlawful for any
person to bury the remains of a deceased person in the cemetery without first
paying in advance, and before the opening of the plot to be occupied, the full
cost for use of said plot.
   D.   Burial Right Certificate: A burial right certificate shall be exempt
from execution, taxation or assessment for care and maintenance from and after
full payment of the purchase price. Payments made pursuant to this section
shall not be construed to be in payment for any cemetery service.
   E.   Restrictions Of Resale: Burial rights to any plot or lot shall not be
sold, transferred, conveyed or assigned by the purchaser or certificate holder
except to the Town or to the direct heirs. The Town hereby agrees to buy back
the use of any plot or lot for the original price paid.
   F.   Certificate Transfer Fee: Whenever plots or lots are transferred, or
revert to the Town, or become vested in the Town for any reason, the original
certificate shall be cancelled, and the record shall be so changed before a new
certificate is issued. A transfer fee, as set forth from time to time by
resolution of the Town Council, shall be paid to the Town Clerk for such
transaction. The Town shall be the sole judge of the size of the plot or the
number of plots to be sold to any person or family.
   G.   Installment Purchase Contract: Upon adoption of this chapter, the
creation of the installment purchase contract will take effect. Said contract
will be executed in accordance with the following conditions:
      1.   Nonrefundable deposit of twenty five percent (25%) of cost of each
space made on the date of purchase.
      2.   Balance paid within six (6) months of purchase date.
      3.   No interest charged on balance.
      4.   Installment purchase contract executed on the date of purchase.
      5.   If default occurs, the spaces revert to the Town and payments made
are forfeited to the Town.
The provisions of said contract shall be governed by the Town Council and
changes, amendments or alterations may be implemented by the Town Council as
the need may arise. In no event shall title to any plot or lot pass to the
purchaser, nor shall any person be buried therein until the purchase price for
the use of said plot or lot thereof has been paid in full.
   H.   Forfeiture Of Burial Rights: When any party to whom the burial right to
a lot or portion of a lot in the cemetery has been sold shall have failed to
pay to the Town of full purchase price of the same for a period of six (6)
months since the date of the installment purchase contract on such lot or
portion of lot, and who, after ten (10) days' notice by registered mail, shall
fail or refuse to make such payment, then and in that event such party shall
forfeit all rights and privileges in such lot or portion of lot, except such
portion thereof as has been actually used for the burial place of deceased
persons, and the Town shall have the right to sell such lot or portion thereof.
   I.   Plot Exchange: In the event the Sexton or any party desires to exchange
plots inside the cemetery with another plot, they may do so by informing the
Town Clerk of their desire and paying for the certificate transfer fee.
   J.   Correction Of Errors: See subsection 7-4-6G of this chapter.
   K.   Right To Replat: The right to enlarge, reduce, replat or change the
boundaries or grading of the cemetery, or a section or sections, from time to
time, including the right to modify or change the locations of or remove or
regrade roads, drives or walks, or any part thereof, is hereby reserved. The
right to lay, maintain, operate, alter or change pipelines for sprinkling
systems, drainage, etc., is also expressly reserved, as well as is the right to
use cemetery property not sold to individual plot owners or plots reclaimed for
cemetery purposes, including interment of the dead, or for anything necessary,
incidental or convenient thereto. (Ord. 01-15, 10-15-2001)
7-4-8: RECLAMATION:
   A.   Reclamation Of Unused Lots: The Town shall reclaim any unused burial
site "which has been unused for burial purposes for more than sixty (60)
years". The Town Council, by virtue of its adoption of this chapter, authorizes
and mandates the Sexton to reclaim any such site. Prior to reclaiming any lot
or portion thereof, proper notification procedures, as provided in the
statutes, will be followed. The Town Council reserves the right to amend the
notification procedure as to extend the process of said procedure. Descendants
or other heirs shall have preference over nonheirs or nondescendants in
purchasing a burial right on the lots or portions thereof being reclaimed. The
cost of the burial right will be at current purchase price.
   B.   Forfeiture Of Burial Rights: See subsection 7-4-7H of this chapter.
(Ord. 01-15, 10-15-2001)
7-4-9: PERPETUAL CARE:
   A.   Perpetual Care Fund: A perpetual care fee in the amount set forth from
time to time by resolution of the Town Council shall be required for each
burial plot upon the sale of the burial plot use. The fee paid for perpetual
care shall be kept in a special fund. The annual interest income from the
Perpetual Care Fund shall be used to assist in the care, maintenance and
operation of the cemetery.
   B.   Perpetual Care Defined: Perpetual care shall be deemed to include
general grounds maintenance, but shall not include repairing or replacing
monuments of any nature, except when the need for repair or replacement is
directly caused by the Town. (Ord. 01-15, 10-15-2001)
7-4-10: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND:
There is hereby established a Capital Improvement Fund for future expansion of
new burial sites and portions thereof, and construction of fixtures as deemed
necessary in the cemetery, and there shall be deposited in the fund one-third
(1/3) of the burial right fees after the effective date hereof. The sum total
of these monies collected and deposited and interest accrued thereon will go
solely for the purposes of capital improvement or expansion of the cemetery.
(Ord. 01-15, 10-15-2001)
7-4-11: MONUMENTS AND MARKERS:
   A.   Installation, Removal: The certificate holders of spaces or relatives
of the deceased person buried in the cemetery may not install or remove, or
cause the installation or removal, of any type of marker or monument on any
grave space without first obtaining the approval of the Sexton.
   B.   Height Requirement: Grave markers shall either be flush with the ground
or between twelve inches (12") and four and one-half feet (41/2') in height.
   C.   Cement Border: Grave markers shall have and be set in a finished, grass
level cement base or apron (commonly known as a mow strip) extending outward
from the outer perimeters of the stone or metal grave markers for at least four
inches (4"), so that the lawn may be cut conveniently without contact to the
headstone or marker.
   D.   Length Of Grave Marker: The combined length of the mow strip and grave
marker shall not exceed forty inches (40") for a single headstone; eighty
inches (80") for a double headstone; or one hundred twenty inches (120") for a
triple headstone.
   E.   Inscription: The inscription with the name of the deceased on all grave
markers in the cemetery shall be so inscribed on the stone or metal marker so
that a person may be able to read it when facing the east.
   F.   Installation: The installation of all grave markers or monuments will
be under the supervision of the Sexton. A notice to the Cemetery Office by the
monument company or responsible party must be made at least twenty four (24)
hours prior to the installation.
   G.   Location Of Grave Markers: All grave markers and monuments shall be set
with the outside west edge of the burial space on the marker placement line as
established by the Sexton or his representative.
   H.   Failure To Comply: Failure to comply with the above regulations for
grave markers and monuments will justify the Town in refusing the placement of
said markers or monuments. Any and all costs involved with altering said
markers in order to comply with the above regulations will be borne by those
having ordered said markers.
   I.   Burial Right Paid Prior To Setting Of Headstone: Before any marker or
monument may be placed on any plot, the full purchase price for use of said
plot must be paid in full whether or not the plot is occupied with human
remains.
   J.   Marker, Monument Moving Fee: When the need arises to move from its
location either a marker or monument in order to inter human remains, a fee
will be assessed on the interment order in addition to the interment fees. This
fee will be governed and set forth by the Town Council and may change from time
to time as the Town Council may deem necessary. The monies collected will be
designated part of the operating budget of the cemetery.
   K.   Family Monument: A family monument will be allowed to be installed if
the certificate holder has burial rights to the entire lots. (Ord. 01-15, 10-
15-2001; amd. 2017 Code)
7-4-12: DECORATION OF GRAVES:
   A.   Removal Of Funeral Flowers And Decorations: Funeral flowers and floral
pieces or decorations will be removed and discarded without notice when they
become unsightly.
   B.   Artificial Flowers: Artificial (dried, silk or plastic) flowers or
grave decorations are not permitted from April 1 to November 1, with the
exception of holidays. Any fresh cut flowers are permitted in a sunken vase at
any time but will be removed when they become unsightly.
   C.   Holiday Decorations: All holiday decorations will be removed within
seven (7) days (with the exception of Christmas). Christmas decorations will be
removed and discarded no later than the first Monday in March of the following
year.
   D.   General Cemetery Cleanup: Complete general cleanup of all flowers and
grave decorations will be scheduled at the following times:
      1.   The first Monday in April (for mowing until Memorial Day).
      2.   The Monday following Memorial Day.
      3.   The first Monday in November.
   E.   Removal Of Personal Property: The cemetery claims no responsibility or
liability, nor will accept any claims against it, for loss or destruction of
personal property left in the cemetery, and disclaims all responsibility for
loss or damage from causes beyond its reasonable control, and especially from
damage caused by the elements, an act of God, common enemy, thieves, vandals,
explosions, invasions, insurrections, riots or order of any military or civil
authority, whether the damage be direct or collateral, other than as herein
provided. (Ord. 01-15, 10-15-2001)
7-4-13: FENCING, COPINGS OR PLANTINGS:
No person shall erect a fence, coping or corner post, or plant trees, flowers,
shrubbery, hedges or other boundary markers or obstructions upon any burial
plot or lot, nor grade the ground thereof. Any such obstructions in the
cemetery shall be removed under the direction of the Sexton. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit the planting and maintaining of trees, shrubs, flowers,
bushes, fences and other installations by the Sexton in his official capacity.
(Ord. 01-15, 10-15-2001)
7-4-14: HOURS OF OPERATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be in the cemetery without the
permission of the Town Council after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and before six
o'clock (6:00) A.M., and the presence of any unauthorized person during such
hours shall constitute trespassing. (Ord. 01-15, 10-15-2001)
7-4-15: TRAFFIC AND SAFETY REGULATIONS:
   A.   Speed Limit: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive at a speed
greater than fifteen (15) miles per hour in the cemetery.
   B.   Driving Or Parking On Lawn Areas: It shall be unlawful to drive or park
any vehicle over or across any lawn area or lot within the confines of the
cemetery.
   C.   Approved Vehicles, Equipment: Only vehicles and equipment that have
been approved by the Sexton, or his representative, may traverse any lawn area.
   D.   Decorum: Because cemetery ground is devoted to interment and repose of
the dead, strict observance of decorum due such a place shall be required of
all persons.
   E.   Motorcycles: No motorcycles will be permitted within the environs of
the cemetery, except those being involved with a funeral cortege.
   F.   Observance Of Properties: It is of the utmost importance that there
should be strict observance of the properties in the cemetery. Hence, all
persons within the cemetery should avoid conduct unbecoming a sacred place.
   G.   Noise: No loud, boisterous or turbulent noise of any kind which is
deemed undesirable or interferes with the decorum of the cemetery, or which is
marked by intensity or volume of sound, will be permitted within the environs
of the cemetery.
   H.   Alcoholic Beverages: No alcoholic beverages of any kind will be
permitted within the environs of the cemetery.
   I.   Loitering: No idling or loafing on the grounds or in any of the
buildings will be permitted within the environs of the cemetery.
   J.   Food: The bringing of lunches or refreshments into the cemetery or
consuming them on the grounds will not be permitted within the environs of the
cemetery.
   K.   Soliciting: Peddling or soliciting the sale of any commodity within the
cemetery will not be permitted.
   L.   Signs: Placing of signs or notices of advertisements of any kind within
the cemetery will not be permitted.
   M.   Firearms: Bringing firearms into the cemetery except by a military or
police escort accompanying a veteran's funeral or attending memorial services
will not be permitted within the environs of the cemetery. (Ord. 01-15, 10-15-
2001)
7-4-16: DEFACEMENT AND LITTERING:
   A.   Injury To Articles Or Property: It is unlawful for any person to
injure, molest, deface or otherwise damage, or remove any headstone from its
foundation, curbing, urn, monument, tree, shrub, flowers, funeral flowers,
floral pieces, vases and containers, or any other property in the cemetery.
This section shall not apply to the Sexton or employees of his department who
are performing their assigned work. This section shall not apply to any person
who is removing flowers, vases or containers which such person has placed upon
a cemetery burial plot or lot.
   B.   Litter: It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit in any part
of the cemetery the carcass of any dead animals, meat, fish, rubbish, refuse,
filth, trash, garbage, building materials or any like substance, or any object
or substance that detracts from the beauty of said cemetery.
   C.   Responsibility For Costs: Any person convicted of the above actions
will be responsible for payment of the cost and expenses involved to restore
the property to its original state and any court costs incurred for the
incident. (Ord. 01-15, 10-15-2001)
7-4-17: ANIMALS IN CEMETERY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to take any animal into the cemetery or
permit any animal owned or in the custody of such person to enter the cemetery,
except an animal kept in the confines of a vehicle will be allowed only if such
animal is retained within the confines of said vehicle while the vehicle
remains in the cemetery. (Ord. 01-15, 10-15-2001)
7-4-18: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or any rules or
regulations established herewith shall be deemed guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 01-15, 10-15-2001; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 5
STREET EXCAVATION
SECTION:
7-5-1: Excavation Permits Required
7-5-2: Applications
7-5-3: Fees
7-5-4: Licensed Contractor Required
7-5-5: Approved Contractors
7-5-6: Manner Of Excavating
7-5-7: Sidewalks
7-5-8: Restoring Surfaces
7-5-9: Supervision
7-5-10: Protective Measures And Routing Of Traffic
7-5-11: Clearance Of Vital Structures
7-5-12: Protection Of Traffic
7-5-13: Relocation And Protection Of Utilities
7-5-14: Abandonment Of Substructures
7-5-15: Protection Of Adjoining Property
7-5-16: Care Of Excavated Material
7-5-17: Cleanup Procedure
7-5-18: Protection Of Water Courses
7-5-19: Breaking Through Pavement
7-5-20: Depth Of Structures
7-5-21: Backfilling
7-5-22: Trenches In Pipe Laying
7-5-23: Prompt Completion Of Work
7-5-24: Urgent Work
7-5-25: Emergency Work
7-5-26: Noise, Dust, And Debris
7-5-27: Preservation Of Monuments
7-5-28: Inspections Required
7-5-29: Location Records
7-5-30: Violation And Penalty
7-5-1: EXCAVATION PERMITS REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person or business entity to tunnel under, or to make
any excavation in, any street, alley, or other public place or right-of-way
within the limits of Stockton Town without having first obtained an excavation
permit as required herein or without complying with the provisions of this
chapter or in violation or variance of and from the terms of any such permit.
For the purposes of this chapter, the term "department" shall refer to the
Highways Department or other successor department, and the term "Director"
shall refer to the department's Director. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-2: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for excavation permits shall be made to the department and shall
describe the location of the intended excavation, including boring, the size
and scope of the excavation, the purpose for the excavation, and the person or
business entity doing the actual excavation work, and the name of the person or
business entity for whom or for which the work is being done. The application
shall contain an agreement that must be signed by the applicant stating that
the applicant and all contractors will comply with all ordinances and laws
relating to the work to be done. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-3: FEES:
The fee for each excavation permit shall be based upon the number of
inspections required for the project at a rate per inspection established by
the Town Council. The minimum permit fee will be the amount of a single
inspection. Should any person fail to secure a permit prior to commencement of
any excavation, an investigation fee shall be assessed equal to the amount of
and in addition to the permit fee. The investigation shall not apply to the
case of emergency work as outlined in section
7-5-25 of this chapter. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-4: LICENSED CONTRACTOR REQUIRED:
There shall be no excavation of Town streets, alleys, or other public places or
rights-of-way except by authorized employees of Stockton Town, Tooele County,
or the State of Utah, or any of its agencies, or by a contractor licensed by
the State of Utah to perform street excavation. Prior to the commencement of
any excavation work by a licensed contractor, the contractor shall deposit a
cash bond with Stockton Town in an amount established by the Town Council to
insure proper restoration of the ground, laying of pavement, and restoration of
landscaping, if any. The bond shall be automatically forfeited by the
contractor should the Town be required to undertake, or cause to be undertaken,
any work which the contractor is required by the provisions of this chapter to
do. The permittee shall guarantee the materials and workmanship for a period of
two (2) years from completion of the excavation work, reasonable wear and tear
excepted. Upon completion of the work by the contractor to the satisfaction of
the Town, the two-year warranty period shall begin. At the successful
completion of the warranty period the bond shall be returned to the contractor.
In addition, no contractor shall be allowed to obtain an excavation permit
unless the contractor first provides proof of liability insurance and signs an
indemnity agreement to be prepared by the Stockton Town Attorney and the form
approved by the Stockton Town Mayor. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-5: APPROVED CONTRACTORS:
The Director shall institute and maintain a list of approved contractors for
street excavations within Stockton Town.
   A.   Any contractor who is licensed by the State of Utah to perform street
excavations may be placed on the approved contractors list provided that they
submit to the Director the following:
      1.   A written request to be placed on the approved contractors list;
      2.   An irrevocable letter of credit or cash bond to the Town, in an
amount established by the Town Council to secure completion of repairs to the
street in a timely manner to Town specifications;
      3.   Documentation demonstrating that the contractor is properly licensed
and in good standing to do business as a contractor within the State of Utah;
      4.   A signed indemnity agreement, to be on a form provided by the Town,
covering any work performed in their capacity as a contractor performing
excavation work within a Stockton Town rights-of-way or on public property;
and,
      5.   Proof of liability insurance.
   B.   Contractors identified on the official approved contractors list shall
not be required to post a bond for individual excavation permits within a
Stockton Town right-of-way or on public property so long as their on-going
approved contractor's bond remains in full effect at the time an excavation
permit is filed with the department.
   C.   Contractors identified on the official approved contractors list shall
be required to pay only permit fees for individual excavation permits so long
as their on-going approved contractor's bond remains in full effect at the time
an excavation permit is filed with the department.
   D.   Failure to meet the conditions and requirements of this chapter,
failure to maintain a state of good standing on the approved contractors list,
failure to properly perform street excavations, failure to properly complete
any street repairs, or failure to seek and be issued permits for excavation
work shall be grounds for removal from the approved contractors list at the
discretion of the Director.
   E.   In the event the Director elects to remove a contractor from the
approved contractors list, the contractor shall have a right to appeal in
writing the removal to the Mayor within ten (10) days of written notice of
removal. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-6: MANNER OF EXCAVATING:
It shall be unlawful to make any excavation or boring within or under a public
right-of-way or on public property in any way contrary to or at variance with
the terms of the excavation permit. Proper bracing shall be maintained to
prevent the collapse of adjoining ground; and in excavations, the excavation
shall not have anywhere below the surface any portion which extends beyond the
opening at the surface. No damage shall be caused to any pipes, cables, wires,
or conduits in the making of excavations or borings; and notice shall be given
to the person maintaining pipes, cables, wires, or conduits, or to the Town
department or officer charged with the care thereof which are or may be
endangered or affected by the making of any excavation or boring before pipes,
cables, wires, or conduits are disturbed. It shall be the responsibility of the
permittee to comply with Blue Stakes laws, and to obtain directions from public
utility companies as well as Stockton Town, as to the location of subsurface
conduits, pipes, wires, cables, lines or utility appurtenances prior to the
opening of any tunnel or excavation. Stockton Town shall not be responsible for
any damages caused by the permittee or any party excavating or tunneling
pursuant to a permit issued by the Town for damages caused to any pipes,
cables, wires, lines, conduits, or appurtenances. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-7: SIDEWALKS:
If any sidewalk or pedestrian path or right-of-way is blocked by any excavation
work, a temporary sidewalk, path or right-of-way shall be constructed or
provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for pedestrian users.
(Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-8: RESTORING SURFACES:
Any person or business entity making any excavation or boring in or under any
public street, alley or other public place or right- of-way in Stockton Town,
shall restore the surface to the construction standards and specifications of
the Town existing at the time of the excavation, or, if none, to APWA
standards; all backfill shall comply with the requirements of the currently
adopted edition of the State of Utah Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction and the standards of the American Public Works Association
(APWA). Any opening in a paved or improved portion of the street shall be
repaired and the surface replaced, including crack sealing, by the permittee
within three (3) working days of excavation, in compliance with the above-
referenced standards and under the supervision of the Director. With all
excavations, the contractor shall guarantee the materials and workmanship for a
period of two (2) years from completion of the work, reasonable wear and tear
excepted. All landscaping surfaces affected by excavation work shall also be
restored with materials matching those present before the excavation work
commenced, to the greatest degree possible. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-9: SUPERVISION:
The Director shall from time to time inspect or cause to be inspected all
excavation activities being made in or under any public street, alley, public
place, or right-of-way in the Town to see to the enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter. Notice shall be given to the department in the form of a
scheduled inspection before the work of backfilling any such excavation
commences. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-10: PROTECTIVE MEASURES AND ROUTING OF TRAFFIC:
It is the duty of every person cutting or making an excavation in or upon any
public place, street, alley, or right-of-way to place and maintain barriers and
warning devices necessary for the safety of the general public. Barriers,
warning signs, lights, etc., shall conform to the requirements and
recommendations of the Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) and
APWA, as a minimum, and those of the Director. Warning lights shall be
electrical markers or flashers used to indicate a hazard to traffic from sunset
of each day to sunrise of each day. Reflectors or reflecting material may be
used to supplement but not replace light sources. The permittee shall take
appropriate measures to assure that during the performance of the excavation
work traffic conditions as near as normal as possible shall be maintained at
all times so as to minimize inconvenience and risk of injury to the general
public and the occupants of the adjoining property. When traffic conditions
permit, the Director may authorize the closing of a street or alley to all
traffic for a period of time prescribed by him if, in his opinion, it is
necessary to expedite the excavation work or maintain the safety of the
excavation crews or the general public. The approval shall be based upon
submission and approval of an appropriate and acceptable traffic control,
signage, and detouring plan and may require the permittee to give notification
to various public agencies and to the general public in advance of the closing.
The approval shall not be valid until the notice has been given. (Ord. 2019-09,
5-9-2019)
7-5-11: CLEARANCE OF VITAL STRUCTURES:
The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere
with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes, water valves, valve
housing structures, and all other vital equipment as designated by the
Director. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-12: PROTECTION OF TRAFFIC:
The permittee shall maintain safe crossings for two (2) lanes of vehicle
traffic at all street intersections where possible and safe crossings for
pedestrians at intervals of not more than three hundred feet (300'). If an
excavation is made across any public street, alley, or sidewalk, adequate
crossings shall be maintained for vehicles and for pedestrians. Excavated and
repair stock materials shall not be stored on an adjacent sidewalk, a
passageway, or in the curb and gutter. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-13: RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES:
The permittee shall not interfere with any existing facility without the
written consent of the Director and the owner of the facility. If it becomes
necessary to relocate an existing facility to accommodate the excavation, this
shall be done by the permittee under the facility owner's direction. No
facility owned by the Town shall be moved to accommodate the permittee unless
the cost of such work be borne by the permittee. The cost of moving privately
owned facilities shall be similarly borne by the permittee unless it makes
other arrangements with the person owning the facility. The permittee shall
support and protect by timbers or otherwise all pipes, conduits, poles, wires,
cables, and other apparatus which may be in any way affected by the excavation
work, and do everything necessary to support, sustain, and protect them under,
over, along, and across the excavation work. The permittee shall secure
approval of method of support and protection from the owner of the facility. In
case any pipes, conduits, poles, wires, cables, lines, or apparatus are
damaged, and for this purpose, pipe coating or other encasement or devices are
to be considered as part of the substructure, the permittee shall promptly
notify the owner thereof. All damaged facilities shall be repaired by the
agency or person owning them, and the expense of any repairs shall be borne by
the permittee. It is the intent of this paragraph that the permittee shall
assume all liability for damages to facilities and any resulting damage or
injury to anyone because of facility damage, and such assumption of liability
is a contractual obligation of the permittee. The only exception will be
instances where damage is exclusively due to the negligence of the owning
utility. The Town shall not be made a party to any action because of this
section, and permittee's signature on the permit application shall constitute
the permittee's release of the Town from liability. The permittee shall inform
itself as to the existence and location of all underground facilities and
protect the same against damage. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-14: ABANDONMENT OF SUBSTRUCTURES:
Whenever the use of a substructure is abandoned, except the abandonment of
service lines designated to serve single properties, the owner owning, using,
controlling, or having an interest therein shall within thirty (30) days after
such abandonment file with the Director a statement in writing giving in detail
the location of the substructure so abandoned. If the abandoned substructure is
in the way, or subsequently becomes in the way, of an installation of the Town
or any other public body, which installation is pursuant to a governmental
function, the owner shall remove such abandoned substructure or pay the cost of
its removal during the course of excavation for construction of the facility by
the Town or other public body. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-15: PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY:
The permittee shall at all times and at their own expense preserve and protect
from injury any adjoining property by providing proper foundations and taking
other measures suitable for that purpose. Where in the protection of property
it is necessary to enter upon private property for the purpose of taking
appropriate protective measures, the permittee shall obtain consent from the
owner of the private property, and, if he cannot obtain consent, shall, after
consulting the Director, take measures as are possible for the purpose of
making the property safe. The permittee shall, at their own expense, shore-up
and protect all buildings, walls, fences, or other property likely to be
damaged during the progress of the excavation work and shall be responsible for
all damaged public or private property or highways resulting from their failure
to properly protect and carry out the work. Whenever it may be necessary for
the permittee to trench through any lawn area, that area shall be re- seeded or
re-sodded, or the sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and replaced, after
ditches have been backfilled as required by this chapter. All construction and
maintenance work shall be done in a manner calculated to leave the lawn area
free of dirt and debris and in a condition as nearly as possible to that which
existed prior to the commencement of the work. The permittee shall not remove,
even temporarily, any tree or shrub which exists in any park strip without
first obtaining the consent of the Town. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-16: CARE OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL:
All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the trench or in any
street shall be piled and maintained in a manner so as not to endanger those
working in the trench, pedestrians, or users of the streets, and so that as
little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using the streets and
adjoining properties. Where the confines of the area being excavated are too
narrow to permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench, such as
might be the case in a narrow alley, the Director shall have the authority to
require that the permittee haul the excavated material to a temporary storage
site approved by the Director and then re-hauled to the trench site at the time
of backfilling. It shall be the permittee's responsibility to secure the
necessary permission and make the necessary arrangements for all acquired
storage and disposal sites. All material excavated shall be laid compactly and
kept trimmed so as not to impede vehicular and pedestrian traffic. Whenever
necessary, in order to expedite the flow of traffic or to abate dust or dirt,
toe boards or bins may be required by the Director to prevent the spreading of
dirt onto traffic lanes. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-17: CLEANUP PROCEDURE:
As the excavation work progresses, all streets shall be fairly cleaned of all
rubbish, excess earth, rock, and other debris resulting from the work. All
cleanup operations at the location of the excavation shall be accomplished at
the expense of the permittee and shall be completed to the satisfaction of the
Director. From time to time, as may be ordered by the Director, the permittee
shall at their own expense clean up and remove all debris, refuse, and unused
material resulting from the work, and upon failure to do so within twenty four
(24) hours after having been notified to do so by the Director, said work may
be done by Town crews, the cost thereof charged to the permittee, and the
permittee shall be liable for the cost thereof under the surety bond provided
hereunder. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-18: PROTECTION OF WATER COURSES:
The permittee shall maintain all gutters and swales free and unobstructed for
the full depth of the adjacent curb and property lines and for at least one
foot (1') in width from the face of the curb at the gutter line. Whenever a
gutter or swale crosses an intersection street, an adjacent waterway shall be
provided and at all times maintained. The permittee shall make provisions to
take care of all surplus water, mud, silt, slickings, or other runoff pumped or
removed from excavations or resulting from sluicing or other operations and
shall be responsible for any damage resulting from their failure to so provide.
(Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-19: BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT:
   A.   Heavy duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by the Director when the
use thereof endangers existing substructures or other property.
   B.   Saw cutting of concrete may be required by the Director when the nature
of the work or the condition of the street warrants. When required, the depth
of the cut shall be not less than one inch (1") in depth; however, depths
greater than one inch (1") may be required by the Director when circumstances
warrant. Saw cutting may be required by the Director outside of the limits of
the excavation over caveouts, breaks, and small floating sections.
   C.   Approved cutting of bituminous pavement surface ahead of excavation
shall be required to confine the pavement damage to the limit of the trench.
   D.   Sections of sidewalks shall be removed to the nearest scoreline or
joint.
   E.   Unstable pavement shall be removed over caveouts and breaks, and the
subgrade shall be treated as a main trench.
   F.   Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face neatly aligned with
the center line of the trench.
   G.   Cutouts outside of the trench line must be normal or parallel to the
trench line.
   H.   Boring or other methods to prevent cutting of new pavement may be
required by the Director.
   I.   Permittee shall not be required to repair pavement damage existing
prior to the excavation unless the cut results in small floating sections that
may be unstable, in which case permittee removes and paves the area. (Ord.
2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-20: DEPTH OF STRUCTURES:
No person shall, without written permission of the Director, install any
substructure, except manholes, vaults, valve casings, culverts, and catch
basins at a vertical distance less than is necessary to place such substructure
below the frost line if the Director concludes the substructure must be below
the frost line. Nothing in this section shall impose a duty upon the permittee
to maintain said specifications as required herein upon subsequent changes of
grade in the surface unless the grade in said substructure interferes with the
maintenance of, or travel on, a public street. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-21: BACKFILLING:
Fine material, free from lumps and stone, selected from the spoil, shall be
thoroughly compacted to not less than ninety five percent (95%) of the standard
Proctor Test around and under the substructure to the upper level of the
substructure. Above the upper level of the substructure, backfill material
shall be placed to the subgrade of the pavement in lifts of a depth based upon
the type of soil involved and the degree of consolidation specified. Broken
pavement, large stones, roots, and other debris shall not be used in the
backfill. The number and size of each lift shall be dependent upon the type of
soil involved. Such backfill shall be done in a manner so as to meet the ninety
five percent (95%) standard Proctor Compaction Test specified above. The
Director may require soil tests to be furnished by a recognized soil testing
laboratory or registered professional engineer specializing in soil mechanics
when, in the Director's opinion, backfill for any excavation is not being
adequately compacted or when deemed necessary. In order for the resurfacing to
be permitted, such tests must show that the backfill material meets the
requirements as prescribed by the currently adopted edition of the State of
Utah Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and APWA. All
expense of such tests shall be borne by the permittee. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-22: TRENCHES IN PIPE LAYING:
The maximum length of open trench permissible at any time shall be in
accordance with the existing ordinances or regulations of Stockton Town and if
none exist, then the requirements of the Director and APWA. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-
2019)
7-5-23: PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK:
After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with diligence
all excavation work covered by the excavation permit and shall promptly
complete the work and restore the street, alley, right-of-way, or other public
place to its original condition, or as near as may be, so as not to obstruct
the public place or travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary. (Ord.
2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-24: URGENT WORK:
When traffic conditions, safety, or convenience to the traveling public or the
public interest require that the excavation work be performed as emergency
work, the Director shall have full power to order, at the time the permit is
granted, that a crew of men and adequate facilities be employed by the
permittee on a 24-hour schedule to the end that such excavation work may be
completed as soon as possible. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-25: EMERGENCY WORK:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the making of excavations
necessary for the preservation of life and property or for the location of
trouble in conduits or pipes, provided that the person making the excavation
shall apply to the department for a permit as soon as practicable and no later
than the first working day after the work is commenced. Nothing in this section
shall absolve the permittee from the requirements of this chapter. In any
emergency at a time when it is not practical to obtain the necessary permit as
provided above in advance of the excavation work, any excavations may be
authorized by the Director or may be performed by a contractor on the approved
contractor list, provided that the necessary permit is obtained the next
business day after the emergency work is performed. Under no circumstances
shall an excavation be performed without prior notification through personal
contact to the Director of the need and location for the work to be done. (Ord.
2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-26: NOISE, DUST, AND DEBRIS:
All excavation activities shall comply with all Stockton Town Nuisance and
Noise Ordinances and shall take necessary precautions to minimize the impact on
and inconvenience for neighboring property owners. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-27: PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS:
Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street, right-of-way, or property subdivision, or a precise survey reference
point, or a permanent survey benchmark within the Town, shall not be removed or
disturbed without first obtaining permission in writing from the Mayor and the
Tooele County Surveyor's Office. Permission to remove or disturb monuments,
reference points, or benchmarks shall only be granted upon condition that the
person applying for a permit shall pay all expenses incident to the proper
replacement of the monument. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-28: INSPECTIONS REQUIRED:
The Director shall cause inspections to be completed in the enforcement of this
chapter. The Director shall have the authority to promulgate and cause to be
enforced such rules and regulations as may be reasonably necessary to enforce
and carry out the intent of this chapter. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-29: LOCATION RECORDS:
Every public utility after the enactment of this chapter shall maintain records
showing the location of all of its underground facilities, except relatively
minor facilities which connect a particular premises or building. Every public
utility shall maintain equipment that can locate facilities in the field. (Ord.
2019-09, 5-9-2019)
7-5-30: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   A person or business entity which violates any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a civil offense punishable by a civil penalty in the
following amounts, in addition to the forfeiting of the bond:
      1.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a first offense;
      2.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a second offense; and,
      3.   Two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for a third or subsequent offense.
   B.   The civil penalties in subsection A of this section are in addition to
all remedies available under this chapter, the bonds, and otherwise available
at law and in equity. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-9-2019)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Water Department And System
8-1-2: Watermaster
8-1-3: Use Of Town Water System Mandatory
8-1-4: Applications
8-1-5: Rates, Fees And Deposits
8-1-6: Delinquency
8-1-7: Water Meters
8-1-8: Use Without Payment
8-1-9: Turning On Water After Being Turned Off
8-1-10: Separate Connections
8-1-11: Unauthorized Users
8-1-12: Wasting Water
8-1-13: Pipes
8-1-14: Fire Hydrants
8-1-15: Time Of Day Watering
8-1-16: Sprinklers Affecting Pressure Or Water Supply
8-1-17: Water For Motors Or Machinery
8-1-18: Access For Inspection
8-1-19: Extension Of Water Mains
8-1-20: Contractor Installed Water Utility Lines
8-1-21: Water Services Outside Town
8-1-22: Nonliability For Damages
8-1-23: Liability Of Property Owner
8-1-24: Penalty
8-1-1: WATER DEPARTMENT AND SYSTEM:
   A.   Department Created: The Water Department is hereby created. It shall
comprise all of the property and equipment and personnel pertaining to the
maintenance and operation of the Town water supply and distribution. This
Department shall administer the operation and maintenance of the water system
of the Town.
   B.   System Under Control Of Town Council: The waterworks system
constructed, owned and controlled by this Town to supply the Municipality and
the citizens thereof with water services shall be known and designated as the
Stockton Waterworks. It shall be the property of the Town, and shall be under
the sole and exclusive control of the Town Council, who may from time to time
direct the construction of such reservoirs, water tanks, water mains, fire
hydrants and facilities of every description, as the necessities of the
inhabitants of the Town may require. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980)
8-1-2: WATERMASTER:
   A.   Appointment: The Mayor may appoint, by and with the approval of the
Town Council, a competent person to the position of Watermaster of the Water
Department, who shall hold office during the pleasure of the Town Council.
   B.   Duties: The Watermaster of the water system shall manage and supervise
the Town water system, under the direction of the Town Council, which from time
to time shall, by resolution or otherwise, prescribe his powers and duties and
direct the manner and frequency with which he shall make reports to the Town
Council relating to the water system. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980; amd. 2017 Code)
8-1-3: USE OF TOWN WATER SYSTEM MANDATORY:
   A.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful for a person to use or distribute
water other than water from the Town water system under the following
circumstances:
      1.   If said water does not conform to the standards for culinary water
imposed by the State Department of Health.
      2.   If said water is obtained from a well of less than one hundred feet
(100') in depth or from any source which is subject to become contaminated,
e.g., surface runoff waters.
   B.   Lodging Places: No operation of a trailer court, motel, apartment house
or other lodging places shall furnish water from other than the Town water
system to his patrons. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980)
8-1-4: APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Water Service: Any person desiring, or who is required to secure, water
service when such service is available from the Town water system, shall apply
therefor to the Town Clerk and file an agreement with the Town, which shall be
on file in the Town office.
   B.   Agreement Of Owner: Applications for water service made by the tenant
of an owner must, in addition to the above requirements, be accompanied by an
agreement signed by the owner of the premises or his duly authorized agent.
Said agreement is on file in the Town office. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980; amd. 2017
Code)
8-1-5: RATES, FEES AND DEPOSITS:
   A.   Set By Resolution: The rates and connection fees for water service from
the Town water system shall be set from time to time by resolution enacted by
the Town Council. The Town Council may, from time to time, enact rules for
levying, billing, guaranteeing and collecting charges for water service and all
other rules necessary for the management and control of the water system.
   B.   Special Rates: The Town Council may from time to time set by agreement
or resolution, special rates and conditions for users using exceptionally large
amounts of water service, or making use thereof under exceptional
circumstances, upon such terms and conditions as they may deem proper.
   C.   Deposit Required: All persons owning or leasing a house receiving water
service in the Town shall deposit with the Water Department the guarantee
payment as a security deposit for the nonpayment of costs incurred as a result
of the Town providing water service to that resident. The security deposit
shall be in the amount of three hundred dollars ($300.00) and shall bear no
interest to the depositor. This amount is due and payable before water service
is commenced or recommended in the case of prior water shutoff. (Ord. 1-80, 2-
4-1980; amd. 2017 Code)
   D.   Reconnection Fee: If a resident's water service is disconnected and
then reconnected because of nonpayment, or disconnected for convenience sake, a
fee as established by the Town Council shall be paid to the Water Department
for that reconnection. (Ord. 84-3, 2-7-1984; amd. 2017 Code)
8-1-6: DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Monthly Statement: The Town shall provide a monthly statement of
account for each water connection.
   B.   Enforcement: The Town Clerk is hereby authorized and empowered to
enforce the payment of all delinquent water service charges by an action at law
in the corporate name of the Town. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Attorney Fees: When a person fails to pay their water bills and it is
necessary to collect those amounts by instituting the legal process, those
persons shall pay to the Town a sum equal to what the Town Attorney charges the
Town for the services rendered to the Town in order to collect the amount in
dispute. The attorney fees shall include all the time spent attending meetings,
phone calls, communications, inspections, research and any and all other work
reasonably related to collecting the delinquent amounts. (Ord. 83-2, 5-2-1983)
8-1-7: WATER METERS:
All structures, dwelling units and establishments using water from the Town
system must have such number of water meters connected to their water system as
are necessary in the judgment of the Watermaster to adequately measure use and
determine water charges to the respective water users. Meters will be furnished
by the Town at the expense of the property holder at rates established from
time to time by resolution. Service users may request that the town Water
Department come to the service user's serviced property to read the water meter
on the serviced property and provide a determination to a service user of the
current reading of the meter. These requests shall generally be limited to once
every calendar month per water meter. The Mayor or Water Department has the
authority to determine and assess reasonable readings fees for requests by
service users that exceed once every calendar month per water meter. (Ord. 1-
80, 2-4-1980; amd. 2017 Code; Ord. 2022-03, - -2022)
8-1-8: USE WITHOUT PAYMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person by himself, family, servants or agents to
utilize the Town water system without first paying therefor, as herein
provided, or, without authority, to open any stopcock valve or other fixtures
attached to the system of water supply, or to in any way injure, deface or
impair any part or appurtenance of the water system, or to cast anything into
or onto any reservoir or tank belonging to said system. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980)
8-1-9: TURNING ON WATER AFTER BEING TURNED OFF:
It shall be unlawful for any person, after the water has been turned off from
his premises for nonpayment of water charges or other violation of the rules
and regulations pertaining to the water supply, to turn on or allow the water
to be turned on or used without authority. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980)
8-1-10: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more families or service users to be
supplied from the same service pipe or connection or water meter. In all such
cases, a failure on the part of any one (1) of said users to comply with this
chapter shall warrant a withholding of a supply of water through said service
connections until compliance or payment has been made, and in any event the
property owner shall be primarily liable to the Town for all water services
utilized on all such premises. Nothing herein shall be deemed to preclude the
power of the Town to require separate pipes, connections or meters at a
subsequent time. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980; amd. 2017 Code)
8-1-11: UNAUTHORIZED USERS:
It shall be unlawful for any water service user to permit any person from other
premises or any unauthorized persons to use or obtain water services regularly
from his premises or water facilities, either outside or inside his premises.
(Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980)
8-1-12: WASTING WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any water user to waste water, or to allow it to be
wasted, by imperfect stops, taps, valves, leaky joints or pipes, or to allow
tanks or watering troughs to leak or overflow, or to wastefully run water from
hydrants, faucets or stops or through basins, water closets, urinals, sinks or
other apparatus, or to use the water for purposes other than for those which he
has paid, or to use water in violation of the rules and regulations for
controlling the water supply. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980)
8-1-13: PIPES:
   A.   Good Repair: All users of water service shall keep their service pipes
and connections and other apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at
their own expense. No person, except under the direction of the Watermaster,
shall be allowed to dig into streets for the purpose of laying, removing or
repairing any service pipe.
   B.   Quality:
      1.   All service and other pipes used in conjunction with the water
services of the Town shall be of such material, quality and specifications as
the Town Council may from time to time by resolution provide, and shall be
installed at such distances below ground as may be specified by regulations
relating to the Water Department. All work, alterations or extensions affecting
water pipes shall be subject to the acceptance of the Watermaster, nor shall
any connections with water mains be made without first obtaining a permit
therefor from the Town Clerk.
      2.   No consumer shall be permitted to conduct water pipes across lots or
buildings to adjoining premises without permission from the Watermaster and
subject to such requirements relating to controls as may be imposed by him.
(Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980; amd. 2017 Code)
8-1-14: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Control, Repair: All hydrants shall be under the control of and shall
be kept in repair by the Watermaster, and in case of fire, the Fire Department,
and such others as the Mayor may authorize, shall have free access to said
hydrants. No unauthorized person shall open or operate any fire hydrant or
attempt to draw water therefrom.
   B.   Injury Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully or
carelessly to run a vehicle against a fire hydrant, or otherwise wilfully or
carelessly injure the same. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive with
any vehicle over or across hose when laid for the purpose of extinguishing fire
or other useful purpose. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980; amd. 2017 Code)
8-1-15: TIME OF DAY WATERING:
   A.   Applicability; Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall apply
to all landscape within the Town. This section shall not apply in the following
situations:
      1.   New lawns that require frequent irrigation for establishment
purposes within ninety (90) days of planting.
      2.   Short cycles required for testing, inspection and maintaining
irrigation systems.
   B.   Sprinkling Lawns: No sprinkling shall be allowed except in connection
with other water service. No faucet, tap or other outside water source shall be
allowed to run except when controlled by a nozzle which causes a visible spray
or sprinkling effect, or if connected to a drip, soaker or bubble type hose.
Outside watering hours shall be from six o'clock (6:00) P.M. to ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. In time of scarcity of water, whenever it shall be necessary, the
Water Department or the Mayor shall, by notice to the water users, still
further limit the use of water for other than domestic purposes, and in the
Water Department or Mayor's discretion, provide that sprinkling shall only be
used on alternate days, or prohibited entirely. (Ord. 02-05, 5-13-2002, eff. 5-
13-2002; amd. 2017 Code; Ord. 2022-05, - -2022)
8-1-16: SPRINKLERS AFFECTING PRESSURE OR WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to use such number of
outlets simultaneously or to use such sprinklers or combinations of sprinklers
or outlets as will, in the opinion of the Watermaster, materially affect the
pressure or supply of water in the Town water system, or any part thereof. The
Town Council may, from time to time by resolution, specify combinations or
numbers or outlets which may have such effect.
   B.   Notice: The Watermaster shall, after a determination that such improper
use exists, notify the affected water user, or the owner of the premises
whereon such use occurs, in writing, and order such use discontinued and advise
the user/owner that such continued usage constitutes a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980; amd. 2017 Code)
8-1-17: WATER FOR MOTORS OR MACHINERY:
No water shall be supplied from pipes of the Town water system for the purpose
of driving any motor, syphon, turbine or other wheels, or any hydraulic engines
or elevators, or for driving or propelling machinery of any kind whatsoever,
nor shall any license be granted or issued for any such purpose, except by
special permission of the Town Council. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980)
8-1-18: ACCESS FOR INSPECTION:
Free access shall at all ordinary hours be allowed to the Watermaster or other
authorized person to all places supplied with water service, to examine the
water apparatus, the amount of water used, and the manner of using water
apparatus, and the user violating any of the rules and regulations controlling
the water system shall forfeit all payments made and the right to the use of
the water system for violation of the rules pertaining to either of said water
system. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980; amd. 2017 Code)
8-1-19: EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS:
   A.   Authorized; Petition: Any person or persons, including any subdivider,
desiring to have the water mains extended within the Town, and being willing to
advance the whole expense of such extension, and receive the return of an
agreed portion thereof, as hereinafter provided, may make application to the
Town Council by petition containing a description of such proposed extension,
accompanied by a map showing the location thereof, which petition shall also
contain an offer to advance the whole expense of making the same as said
expense shall be certified by the Watermaster. The Town Council may grant or
deny said petition as in its discretion deems best for the welfare of existing
water users in the Town.
   B.   Costs Of Extensions Determined: Upon receipt of such petition and map,
and before the petition is granted, the Town Council shall obtain from the
Watermaster a certified statement showing the whole cost and expense of making
such extension.
   C.   Amount Of Cost Deposited With Town: If the Town Council shall grant
said petition, before any work shall be done on such extension, and within
thirty (30) days or such other time as the Town shall indicate after the
granting thereof, the amount of the cost and expense of making such extension
as certified by the Watermaster shall be deposited with the Town Clerk. (Ord.
1-80, 2-4-1980; amd. 2017 Code)
   D.   Refund Determined: At the time that the Town Council determines whether
or not to grant said petition for an extension, it shall also determine whether
or not any of said deposited costs of extension shall be ultimately refunded to
the applicant, the amount to be so refunded, if any, and the manner and
circumstances under which said refund shall be made or credited to the
applicant, his successors or representatives. Such determination shall be duly
recorded in writing and a copy thereof furnished to the applicant.
   E.   Ownership Of Extension: Any such extension shall be deemed the property
of the Town. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980)
8-1-20: CONTRACTOR INSTALLED WATER UTILITY LINES:
   A.   Bond Required: It shall be the contractor's responsibility to post a
two thousand dollar ($2,000.00) bond per project with the Town for a two (2)
year period covering workmanship and materials, or may have the option to post
a ten thousand dollar ($10,000.00) annual bond for three (3) years starting
from January 1 of each year. The original bond must accompany the building
permit.
   B.   Permit Required: A road cut permit from the Town is required for all
work done within the Town right-of-way or a permit from State Department of
Transportation for work performed within the State right-of-way.
   C.   Fees: All initial fees must be paid with the building permit fees.
Additional inspection fees may be billed to the contractor at a later date.
   D.   State License: Contractors must possess the appropriate State
contractors license and bond for the type of work being performed.
   E.   Standards; Notice: All work shall conform to the State, AWWA, Town
Engineer and Inspector standards for material and workmanship. It shall be the
contractor's responsibility to notify the Town five (5) days prior before work
will commence.
   F.   Utility Line Installations: The Town utility line installation shall
comply with Utah DEQ guidelines, AWWA standards and must be approved by the
Town Engineer.
      1.   All PVC pipe shall meet AWWA Standards C-900 with dimension.
      2.   Ratio (DR) 18.
      3.   Service taps three-fourths inch (3/4") on PVC main shall be made
through a bronze corporation stop and bronze double strap tapping saddle.
Service three-fourths inch (3/4") may be direct tapped into case or ductile
iron mains.
      4.   Meter boxes for three-fourths inch (3/4") services shall be round
concrete or plastic with an eighteen inch (18") inside diameter. Lids shall be
case iron with a pentagon locking nut and provide for a minimum twelve inch
(12") opening.
      5.   Meter setters for three-fourths inch (3/4") shall be of copper and
bronze manufacture with a lockable angle meter valve on the inlet side. A dual
check valve that is repairable without removing the meter is required on the
outlet side.
      6.   All pipes shall be bedded in sand or other suitable granular
materials with no rocks larger than three-fourths inches (3/4"). No organic or
other deleterious material will be allowed in the bedding.
      7.   Backfill material in the Town right-of-way shall be granular with no
rocks larger than two inches (2"). It shall be free from organic material,
clay, dirt or other deleterious material. Backfill material will be placed in
twelve inch (12") lifts and compacted to ninety five percent (95%) density.
Flowable fill may also be used for backfill material and poured in one (1)
continuous lift after pipe is suitably bedded in sand.
   G.   Town Surface Restoration:
      1.   It shall be the contractor's responsibility to replace/restore all
surface improvements to equal or better condition, in all respects that the
existing improvements removed.
      2.   Road base shall be placed to a minimum depth of eight inches (8")
and compacted to a density of ninety five percent (95%).
      3.   All existing asphalt shall be a saw cut back to a minimum of six
inches (6") beyond the limits of any trench or cave in. All edges will be tack
coated with MC-70 oil before patching. Asphalt will be placed to a minimum
depth of three inches (3") and compacted to a density of ninety five percent
(95%).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3429611fc3fafe01efa86daed6f394a4620497b7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1289.gif]
 
   H.   Inspection And Other Fees For Contractor Installed Services: Inspection
shall be by the Town Engineer or designee. The Town will not perform new
installations. A contractor approved by Town Engineer will install services.
All costs will be the responsibility of the owner.
      1.   Inspection fees shall be in such amounts as established by the Town
Council.
      2.   The contractor must procure a permit from the State Department of
Transportation for excavations on any State road and present it to the Town
prior to beginning work.
      3.   No Town employees will be allowed to enter excavations that do not
meet OSHA safety requirements.
      4.   The Water Department must inspect all work that has been performed.
Please call for inspection every time work is to be performed (435) 882-3877.
(Ord. 01-17, 12-10-2001; amd. 2017 Code)
8-1-21: WATER SERVICES OUTSIDE TOWN:
The Town may furnish water service from its water system to persons outside its
corporate limits in accordance with the provisions of the following
subsections:
   A.   Petition: Any person located outside the Town limits desiring to be
supplied with water services from the Town water system and being willing to
pay in advance the whole expense of extending the water system to his property,
including the cost of extending the water main from its present location to the
Town limits, may make application to the Town Council by petition containing:
      1.   A description of the proposed extension;
      2.   Accompanied by a map showing the location thereof;
      3.   An offer to pay the whole expense incurred by the Town in providing
such extension and to advance such expense as said expense shall be certified
to by the Watermaster. The Town Council and the person or persons seeking such
extension may enter into an agreement providing in detail the terms under which
the extension may be utilized by others in the future and the terms under which
all or any portion of the cost of installing such extension may be refunded;
      4.   An acknowledgement that the Town, in granting said petition, engages
to supply only such water to petitioner which from time to time the Town
Council deems beyond the requirements of water users with the Town limits;
      5.   An acknowledgement that such extension shall be the property of and
subject to the control of the Town; and
      6.   An agreement to be bound by and comply with all ordinances and
resolutions of the Town then in force or thereafter adopted and to pay for the
water service provided at a rate to be fixed and from time to time adjusted by
the Town Council.
   B.   Extensions: All extensions of Town water mains will be approved by the
Town Engineer. Drawings must be provided by a State Engineer. All work will be
done by bonded, certified contractors.
   C.   Costs Furnished: Upon receipt of such petition and map and before the
petition is granted, the Town Council may determine what portion, if any, of
the extension of the Town water mains to the Town limits the Town shall
construct, and shall obtain from the Watermaster or Town Engineer a certified
statement showing the whole cost and expense of making such extensions. Such
costs and expenses shall include administrative and supervisory expenditures of
the Water Department, which shall in no event be deemed to be less than ten
percent (10%) of the cost of materials and labor. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980; amd.
2017 Code)
8-1-22: NONLIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
Neither the Town or its employees and agents shall be liable for any damage to
a water service user by reason of stoppage or interruption of his water supply
caused by fires, scarcity of water, accidents to the water system, or their
mains, or as the result of maintenance and extension operations, or from any
other unavoidable cause. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980)
8-1-23: LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER:
   A.   Requirement: The Town shall not, from and after the effective date
hereof, furnish water, water transportation facilities and/or water measuring
devices or services of any kind to its inhabitants for use in any house,
tenement, apartment, building, place, premises or lot, whether such water,
water transportation facilities and/or water measuring devices or services of
any kind are used for the owner or tenant, unless the application for water,
water transportation facilities and/or water measuring devices or services of
any kind shall be made in writing filed by such owner or his duly authorized
agent, in which application such owner shall agree that he will pay for all
water, water transportation facilities and/or water measuring devices or
services of any kind furnished such house, tenement, apartment, building,
place, premises or lot according to the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Termination Of Service For Failure To Pay:
      1.   In case the owner of any premises mentioned in subsection A of this
section shall fail to pay for water, water transportation facilities and/or
water measuring devices or services of any kind furnished such owner, tenant or
occupant on or before the due date for payment in accordance with the terms of
this chapter, the Town may cause the water services to be shut off from such
premises and shall not be required to turn the same on again until all arrears
for water services furnished shall be paid in full.
      2.   The exercise of this right by the Town shall be in addition to any
other remedy available to the Town by law to collect delinquent amounts owing
for water, water transportation facilities and water measuring devices, or
services of any kind. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980; amd. 2017 Code)
8-1-24: PENALTY:
Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be an infraction and may
be restrained by action of the Town Council in the name of the Town, and such
violation shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00). Each violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate
offense, and each day such violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 1-80, 2-4-1980; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Responsibilities
8-2-4: Requirements
8-2-5: Violation
8-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Protect the public drinking water supply of the Town from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by requiring compliance with the Utah
State rules for public drinking water systems and the Plumbing Code as adopted
by the State, that requires a cross connection control protection of all public
drinking water systems in the State. Compliance with these minimum safety codes
will be considered reasonable diligence for the prevention of contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow into the public drinking water system; and
   B.   Promote the reasonable elimination or control of cross connection in
the plumbing fixtures and industrial piping system of the consumer, as required
by the State and plumbing regulations to assure water system safety; and
   C.   Provide for the administration of a continuing program of backflow
prevention which will systematically examine risk and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of the drinking water system. (Ord. 15-02, 5-14-
2015)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY: An assembly accepted by the Utah State Department
of Environmental Quality, Division of Drinking Water, as meeting an applicable
specification or as suitable for the proposed use.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the Purveyor's public water supply will be considered as an auxiliary
water supply. These auxiliary waters may include water from another purveyor's
public potable water supply or any natural source, such as a well, spring,
river, stream, etc., or "used waters" or "industrial fluids". These waters may
be contaminated or polluted or they may be objectionable and constitute an
unacceptable water source over which the Water Purveyor does not have authority
for sanitary control.
BACK PRESSURE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances from
a region of high pressure to a region of lower pressure into the water
distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source, other than
the intended source.
BACK SIPHONAGE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
under vacuum conditions into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply
system from any source, other than the intended source, caused by the reduction
of pressure in the potable water system.
BACKFLOW: The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. Specifications for backflow prevention assemblies are contained
within the Plumbing Code as adopted by the State of Utah and in the Cross
Connection Control Program for Utah maintained by the Division of Drinking
Water.
CONTAMINATION: A degradation of the quality of the potable water supply by
sewage industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials that
may create a health hazard.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or fixtures
which may allow nonpotable water or industrial fluids or other material of
questionable quality to come into contact with potable water inside a water
distribution system. This would include temporary conditions, such as swing
connections, removable sections, four-way plug valves, spools, dummy sections
of pipe, swivel or changeover devices or sliding multi-port tubes or other
plumbing arrangements.
CROSS CONNECTION, CONTAINMENT: The installation of an approved backflow
assembly at the water service connection to any customer's premises where it is
physically and economically infeasible to find, permanently eliminate or
control all actual or potential cross connection within the customer's water
distribution system; or, the installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly on the service line leading to and supplying a portion of a customer's
water distribution system; or, the installation of a portion of a customer's
water system where there are actual or potential cross connections which cannot
be effectively eliminated or controlled at the point of the cross connection
(isolation).
CROSS CONNECTION, CONTROLLED: A connection between a potable water system and a
nonpotable water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly properly
installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the protection
commensurate with the degree of hazard.
WATER PURVEYOR: The person designated to be in charge of the Water Department
of the Town of Stockton and is vested with the authority and responsibility for
the implementation of an effective Cross Connection Control Program and for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 15-02, 5-14-2015)
8-2-3: RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Water Purveyor:
      1.   The Town shall be responsible for the protection of the drinking
water distribution system from the foreseeable condition leading to the
possible contamination or pollution of the drinking water system due to the
backflow of contaminants or pollutants into the drinking water supply.
      2.   Drinking water system surveys/inspections of the consumer's water
distribution system shall be conducted or caused to be conducted by individuals
deemed qualified by and representing the Town. Survey records shall indicate
compliance with the State regulations. All such records will be maintained by
the Town.
      3.   The Town shall schedule and notify, in writing, all consumers of the
need for the periodic system survey to ensure compliance with existing
applicable minimum health and safety standards.
      4.   Selection of an approved backflow prevention assembly for
containment control required at the service entrance shall be determined from
the results of the system survey.
   B.   Consumer:
      1.   The consumer shall be responsible to comply with this chapter as a
term and condition of water supply and consumer's acceptance of service is
admittance of his/her awareness of his/her responsibilities as a water system
user.
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to purchase, install
and arrange testing and maintenance of any backflow prevention device/assembly
required to comply with this chapter. Failure to comply with this chapter shall
constitute grounds for discontinuation of service.
   C.   Plumbing Official:
      1.   The Plumbing Official's responsibility to enforce the applicable
sections of the Plumbing Code begins at the point of service (downstream or
consumer side of the meter) and continues throughout the length of the
consumer's water system.
      2.   The Plumbing Official will review all plans to ensure that
unprotected cross connections are not an integral part of the consumer's water
system. If a cross connection cannot be eliminated, it must be protected by the
installation of an air gap or an approved backflow prevention device/assembly,
in accordance with the Plumbing Code as adopted by the State.
   D.   Certified Backflow Technician, Surveyor Or Repair Person:
      1.   Whether employed by the consumer or a utility to survey, test,
repair or maintain backflow prevention assemblies, the certified backflow
technician, surveyor or repair person will have the following responsibilities:
         a.   Ensuring that acceptable testing equipment and procedures are
used for testing, repairing or overhauling backflow prevention assemblies.
         b.   Make reports of such testing and/or repairs to the consumer and
the Water Purveyor on forms approved for such use by the Water Purveyor within
time frames as described by the Division of Drinking Water.
         c.   Include the list of materials or replacement parts being used on
the reports.
         d.   Ensuring that replacement parts are equal in quality to parts
originally supplied by the manufacturer of the assembly being repaired.
         e.   Not changing the design, material or operational characteristics
of the assembly during testing, repair or maintenance.
         f.   Performing all tests of the mechanical devices/assemblies and
shall be responsible for the competence and accuracy of all tests and reports.
         g.   Ensuring that his/her license is current, the testing equipment
being used is acceptable to the State and is in proper operating condition.
         h.   Being equipped with, and competent to use, all necessary tools,
gauges, test tags and other equipment necessary to properly test and maintain
backflow prevention assemblies.
         i.   Tagging each double check valve, pressure vacuum breaker, reduced
pressure backflow assembly and high hazard air gap, showing the serial number,
date tested and by whom. The certified technician's license number must also be
on the tag.
      2.   In the case of a consumer requiring an assembly to be tested, any
currently certified backflow technician is authorized to make the test and
report the results to the consumer and the Water Purveyor. Any installation,
repair or relocation shall be done with individuals having appropriate
licensure from the Department of Licensing. (Ord. 15-02, 5-14-2015)
8-2-4: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Protection Required:
      1.   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the Water Purveyor unless the water supply is protected as
required by State laws, regulations, codes and this chapter. Water shall be
discontinued by the Water Purveyor after due process of written notifications
of violation and an appropriate time suspense for voluntary compliance, if:
         a.   A backflow prevention assembly required by this chapter for the
control of backflow and cross connections is not installed, tested and
maintained; or
         b.   If it is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been
removed or bypassed; or
         c.   If an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises; or
         d.   If the periodic system survey has not been conducted.
      2.   Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are
corrected.
   B.   Inspection: The customer's system shall be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the Water Purveyor to
determine whether cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violation of this chapter, exist and to audit the results of the
required survey (R309.105.12 of the Utah Administrative Code).
   C.   Assembly Required: Whenever the public Water Purveyor deems a service
connection's water usage contributes a sufficient hazard to the water supply,
an approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on the service line
of the identified consumer's water system, at or near the property line or
immediately inside the building being served; but, in all cases, before the
first branch line leading off the service line.
   D.   Type Of Assembly: The type of protective assembly required under
subsection C of this section shall depend upon the degree of hazard which
exists at the point of cross connection (whether direct or indirect),
applicable to local and State requirements or resulting from the required
survey.
   E.   Presently Installed Assemblies: All presently installed backflow
prevention assemblies which do not meet the requirements of this section but
were approved assemblies for the purposes described herein at the time of
installation and which have been properly maintained, shall, except for the
inspection and maintenance requirements under subsection F of this section, be
excluded from the requirements of these rules so long as the Water Purveyor is
assured that they will satisfactorily protect the public water system. Whenever
the existing system is moved from the present location or requires more than
minimum maintenance, or when the Water Purveyor finds that the operation of the
assembly constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by an
approved backflow prevention assembly meeting all local and State requirements.
   F.   Certified Tests: It shall be the responsibility of the consumer at any
premises where backflow prevention assemblies are installed to have certified
surveys, inspections and operational tests made at least once per year at the
consumer's expense. In those instances where the public Water Purveyor deems
the hazard to be great, he may require certified surveys/inspections and tests
at a more frequent interval. It shall be the duty of the Purveyor to see that
these tests are made according to the standards set forth by the State
Department of Environmental Quality, Division of Drinking Water.
   G.   Time Limit For Testing: All backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested within ten (10) working days of installation.
   H.   Safety Hazards Prohibited: No backflow prevention assemblies shall be
installed so as to create a safety hazard. (Example: Installed over an
electrical panel, steam pipes, boilers or above ceiling level.) (Ord. 15-02, 5-
14-2015)
8-2-5: VIOLATION:
If violation of this chapter exists or if there has not been any corrective
action taken by the consumer within ten (10) days of the written notification
of the deficiencies noted within the surveyor test results, then the Water
Purveyor shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by
providing a physical break in the service line until the customer has corrected
the condition in conformance with all State and local regulations and statutes
relating to plumbing, safe drinking water supplies and this chapter. (Ord. 15-
02, 5-14-2015)
CHAPTER 3
WASTEWATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Use Of Public Sewer Required
8-3-3: Private Wastewater Disposal
8-3-4: Connections
8-3-5: User Charge System
8-3-6: Prohibited Uses And Discharges
8-3-7: Enforcement And Penalty
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
ADDENDUM A: The document appended to ordinance 04-03 entitled service user
charge system. The addendum is on file in the Town office.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called house connection.
CESSPOOL: An underground reservoir for liquid waste (as household sewage).
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
DUPLEX: A single building containing two (2) independent dwelling units.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU): A structure, building or unit discharging
effluent into the system placing no more burden or discharge than residential
flows. Each single-family residential connection is deemed to be one (1) ERU.
Other users will be determined to equate to an ERU based on metered culinary
water, as defined in Addendum A.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
GOVERNING BODY: The Mayor and Town Council members for the Town.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or business,
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
MAY: Permissive (see also definition of shall).
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ions concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and hydrogen ion concentration
of 107.
POLLUTED WATER: Sewage deriving from domestic, commercial or industrial sources
which may only be discharged to the sanitary sewer or treated separately in
accordance with State and Federal regulations.
PRIVY: A small building having a bench with holes through which the user may
defecate or urinate.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
RESIDENTIAL FLOWS: The assumed average and/or standard flow expected from a
single-family dwelling based on wintertime culinary water usage. A residential
flow volume strength is two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) TSS
(total suspended solids) and two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) BOD5
(biochemical oxygen demand). Rates for volume and strength of residential flow
are as set out in Addendum A.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
SEPTIC TANK: A tank in which the solid matter of continuous flowing sewage is
disintegrated by bacteria.
SEWAGE: The spent water of a community. The preferred term is wastewater, as
defined in this section.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
SHALL: Mandatory.
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer
than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty four (24)
hour concentration or flows during normal operation and may adversely affect
the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
SOLID WASTE: All waste resulting from residences, commercial trades or
businesses and institutions, whether liquid or solid, which shall not be
discharged to the sanitary sewer but shall be disposed of by solid waste
collection methods.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A drain or sewer for conveying
water, groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
SUPERINTENDENT: The Superintendent of wastewater facilities and/or wastewater
treatment works and/or water pollution control of the Town, or his authorized
deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of,
or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater" and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
SYSTEM: The sewer, wastewater or combined wastewater and storm surface water
facilities of the Town.
TOWN: The Town of Stockton, Tooele County, Utah.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present but not admitted
intentionally.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial waste and dispose of the
effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "water
pollution control plant".
WATERCOURSE: A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water, either
continuously or intermittently. (Ord. 04-03, 4-12-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
8-3-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED:
   A.   Deposit Of Objectionable Waste: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or
private property within the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
Town, any human excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste, except as
provided for by this chapter.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet within the Town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the Town, any
sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter. This
subsection is not intended to prevent normal and reasonable domestic uses and
discharge of water containing biodegradable and environmentally safe household
products.
   C.   Facilities Prohibited: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool
or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   D.   Sewer Facilities And Connection Required: The owners of all houses,
buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or
other purposes, situated within the Town and abutting on any street, alley or
right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sanitary or combined sewer of the Town, or within three hundred feet
(300') of the system, is hereby required, at the owner's expense, to install
suitable sewer facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with
the public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within
thirty (30) days after date of official notice to do so; provided, that said
sewer is within three hundred feet (300') of the owner's property line. The
distance from all houses, buildings or properties to the public sewer may be
cumulative for any proposed development; i.e., if a developer submits plans for
a twenty (20) unit subdivision, the developer must install and connect to the
public system for that subdivision if the nearest home will be within six
thousand feet (6,000') (20' x 300' = 6,000'). (Ord. 04-03, 4-12-2004)
   E.   Exception To Required Connection: Because the initial construction
costs of the Town system is prohibitive for non-gravity flow connections, the
owners of houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation or other purposes as listed in Appendix 1, which is attached to
Ordinance 04-03 and on file in the Town, shall be exempt from the requirements
of subsection D of this section. However, the provisions of subsection 8-3-3E1
of this chapter shall become applicable to those exempted under this subsection
when an appropriate lift station is constructed by new construction,
development and/or remodeling, as specified in subsection 8-3-4E of this
chapter, which is also suitable to provide connection to the system for those
exempted. (Ord. 04-03, 4-12-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
8-3-3: PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL:
   A.   When Permitted: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not
available under the provision of subsection 8-3-2D of this chapter, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system
complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Application: Before commencement of construction of a private
wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
issued by the Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on
a form furnished by the Town, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary. A permit
and inspection fee shall be paid to the Town at the time the application is
filed.
   C.   Compliance Required; Inspection: Permission to use a private wastewater
disposal system shall not become authorized until the installation is completed
in compliance with the approved plans applicable with all State and local codes
and this chapter. Qualified and authorized Town employees shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction. The applicant for the permit
shall notify the Town Clerk when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection should be made
within forty eight (48) working hours of the receipt of notice by the Town
Clerk.
   D.   Construction: The type, capacities, location and layout of a private
wastewater disposal system shall comply with all of the most current
requirements and recommendations of the State Department of Environmental
Quality, as defined in Utah Administrative Rules, Rule R317-501, "Individual
Wastewater Disposal Systems".
   E.   Availability Of Public Sewer:
      1.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in subsection 8-3-
2D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
within one hundred eighty (180) days, in compliance with this chapter, and the
private disposal system shall be disconnected and made inoperable, or present
cause to the Town, through the Superintendent, why they then should be exempt
from these requirements.
      2.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof,
including trespassing on or around fenced access of the Sewer Department,
without first obtaining a written permit from the Town. (Ord. 04-03, 4-12-2004)
      3.   In every case thereof, the owner or agent shall make application on
a form obtained from the Town (Attachment 1 attached to ordinance 04-03 and on
file in the Town). The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered reasonably pertinent in the
judgment of the Superintendent. (Ord. 04-03, 4-12-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
   F.   Maintenance Of System: The owner of any private wastewater disposal
system shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal facilities in
a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the Town.
   G.   Additional State Requirements: No statement contained in this section
shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be
imposed by the State Department of Environmental Quality.
   H.   Current Standards: Buildings, homes or institutions who remain on
private septic systems will maintain their system or bring their facility in
compliance with current environmental standards and Tooele County Health
Department requirements or they will have to connect to the public sewer
system. (Ord. 04-03, 4-12-2004)
8-3-4: CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Costs And Expenses: All costs and expenses incidental to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the Town from any loss or damage to the system that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building
sewer.
   B.   Separate Connections Required; Exception: Each separate building or
premises shall have a separate connection to the main sewer line, except when
deemed impracticable and so found in writing by the Town Engineer. Each owner
will bear and pay for the maintenance and repair of this building or lateral
sewer. Notwithstanding the above, where a dwelling is in the rear of another
building and on the same building lot and owned by the same party, the Town
Engineer may issue a sewer permit for a multiple connection. This subsection is
not intended to act as a waiver for the fees associated with the additional
connection and may only be considered on a case by case basis with express
approval from the Superintendent and the Town Council. For purposes of this
subsection, every residential unit of a duplex, multi-plex, townhome or mobile/
modular home shall be considered an independent dwelling requiring a separate
connection to the system, unless specifically issued a waiver from the Town
Engineer with the reasons for such waiver clearly listed.
   C.   Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are examined and tested by the Superintendent and
found to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Construction; Code Compliance: The size, slope, alignment, materials or
construction of all sanitary sewers, including building sewers, and the methods
to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and
backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the Building
and Plumbing Code, or other applicable rules and regulations of the Town and
the State. In the absence of these Code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
ASTM Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   E.   New Construction; Elevation Requirements: In the case of any new
construction, development and/or remodeling which requires a building permit
after the passage of this chapter, whenever possible, the building sewer shall
be brought from the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by
an approved means and discharged to the building sewer. Where such means are
necessary, the owner shall be responsible for all installations, maintenance
and operating costs of their operation.
   F.   Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the
Town and in accordance with current Town standards. All permits required by
Federal, State and local government agencies shall be the responsibility of the
building and/or property owner. All excavated materials resulting from the
construction of building sewers shall be managed and disposed of according to
current environmental standards associated with the Jacob Smelter site cleanup
projects, as defined, but not limited to, title 10, chapter 16 of this Code,
and in compliance with required excavation permits issued by the Town. (Ord.
04-03, 4-12-2004)
8-3-5: USER CHARGE SYSTEM:
   A.   Payment Of Monthly User Charge: All owners of houses, buildings or
properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes,
subject to the provisions of section
8-3-2 of this chapter, are required to pay a monthly user charge from the date
of connection to the system, but no later than thirty (30) days after the
system is in place and operable. This requirement shall be enforceable on all
owners of property regardless of whether the owners of property have complied
with section
8-3-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Owner Responsible For Payment: Irrespective of the occupant, user,
tenant, co-tenant or permissive user, or any other person, firm, partnership,
corporation or entity being in possession of the premises to which a connection
is supplied or service made available, the owner of the premises, according to
the records of the Tooele County Recorder, shall be legally responsible for the
payment of all charges, fees, assessments and any obligation or liability of a
user. Water service to delinquent property shall be turned off by the Town for
failure to pay any and all sewage and wastewater fees, assessments, charges or
liability and will not be turned on again to those premises where a delinquency
occurs unless and until all liabilities to the Town for sewer service are paid
in full.
   C.   Interest On Delinquent Accounts: The Town may, at its discretion and in
circumstances that are equitable, impose interest at the highest legal rate on
all past due accounts either for connection fees, user charges or any other
legally imposed charges as authorized by this chapter.
   D.   Annual Review Of User Charges: The Town shall review the total annual
cost of operation and maintenance, long term debt service relating to the
wastewater treatment works, as well as each user's wastewater contribution
percentage not less often than every year. The user charge system will be
revised as necessary to assure equity of the system established and to assure
that sufficient funds are obtained from the Town user charge system to: 1)
adequately operate and maintain the wastewater treatment works; 2) cover debt
service; and 3) provide for adequate reserves. Users will be notified at least
annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of any changes to the user charge
system. (Ord. 04-03, 4-12-2004)
   E.   Calculating Rates: User charge rates shall be established and/or
amended by Town resolution. Addendum A shall be used for calculating rates. The
addendum is adopted and made a part of this chapter. (Ord. 04-03, 4-12-2004;
amd. 2017 Code)
8-3-6: PROHIBITED USES AND DISCHARGES:
   A.   Surface Runoff: No person shall make connection of roof down spouts,
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer, unless such connection is
approved by the Town for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   B.   Prohibited Water Or Wastes: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Wastewater having a temperature higher than one hundred five degrees
Fahrenheit (105°F) (65°C).
      2.   Wastewater containing more than twenty five milligrams per liter (25
mg/l) of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral
oil origin.
      3.   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such
materials received in the composite wastewater at the treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Utah Administrative Rules, Rule R317.
      6.   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which singly or
by interaction are sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life, or
to prevent entry into sewers or structures for maintenance and repair.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes.
      8.   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both, which constitute a
"slug", as defined in section
8-3-1 of this chapter.
      9.   Water or wastes containing substances that are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed.
      10.   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
      11.   Any liquid, solids or gases which may be sufficient alone or by
interaction with other substances to cause fire or explosion or generate
toxins.
      12.   Any wastewater with pH below 6.5 or above 9.0, or otherwise
corrosive or damaging to structures, equipment and personnel.
      13.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants sufficient to interfere
with wastewater treatment, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, etc.,
specifically noting biocides et al., under FWPCA, UWQA (and R-317-8-8), RCRA,
FIFRA, TSCA.
      14.   Any substance which may cause residues or sludges to be unsuitable
for reclamation and reuse.
   C.   Right Of Inspection: The Town reserves the right to inspect any
pretreatment facility or manhole on private property with no prior
notification, even though they may not be specifically owned and maintained by
the Town and easements have not been established for access.
   D.   Authority Of Town: If any water or wastes are discharged, or are
proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in subsection B of this section, and
which are determined by the Town to have a deleterious effect upon the
wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Town
may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge and/or
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
this chapter. If the Town permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to review and approval of the Town;
      4.   Require that expenses for all actions or remedies which the Town may
take or require will be the sole responsibility of the owner. (Ord. 04-03, 4-
12-2004)
8-3-7: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Procedures And Rules Adopted: The Superintendent may adopt procedures
and rules for the implementation, administration and enforcement of this
chapter.
   B.   Notice Of Violation; Exception For Emergency:
      1.   Whenever the Superintendent finds that any user has violated or is
violating its wastewater discharge permit or any prohibition, limitation or
requirement contained herein, the Superintendent shall serve upon such user a
written notice stating the nature of the violation, which may include a cease
and desist order. Also, within the time specified therein, a plan for the
satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the Superintendent by the
user.
      2.   The Superintendent may, without notice or hearing, suspend the
wastewater treatment service and/or a wastewater discharge permit when such
suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the Superintendent, to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent or
substantial endangerment or damage to the health or welfare of persons, the
environment or the system, or which causes or will cause the system to violate
any State or Federal laws. Any persons notified of suspension of the wastewater
treatment service and/or the wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop
or eliminate the discharge. In the event of a failure of the user to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the Superintendent shall take such steps
as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to
prevent or minimize damage or endangerment. The Superintendent shall reinstate
the wastewater discharge permit and/or the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of elimination of the noncomplying discharge. The user shall pay all Town
costs and expenses for any such suspension and restoration of service. A
detailed written statement submitted by the user describing the cause of the
harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence
shall be submitted to the Superintendent within five (5) days of the date of
occurrence.
   C.   Liability For Expenses: Any person violating the provisions herein
shall be liable for any expense, loss or damage caused to the system by reason
of violation, including the increased costs, if any, for managing effluent or
sludge, when such increases are the result of the user's discharge of toxic
pollutants. In the event that a user discharges such pollutants which cause the
system to violate any condition of State and/or Federal law and the system is
fined by Federal agencies or the State for such violation, then such user shall
be fully liable for the total amount of the fine assessed against the system.
In addition to the penalties provided herein, the Town may recover reasonable
attorney fees, court costs, court reporter fees, and other Town overhead and
expenses of litigation by appropriate legal action against the user found to
have violated any provision herein, or the orders, rules, regulations and
permits issued hereunder.
   D.   Termination Of Service: The Town may terminate or cause to be
terminated sewage treatment service to any user for a violation of any
provision herein. (Ord. 04-03, 4-12-2004)
   E.   Penalty: A violation of this chapter and the user charge system is
punishable as a Class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 04-03, 4-12-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING AND RELATED CODES; REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Purpose And Intent
9-1-2: Codes Adopted
9-1-3: Successor Codes
9-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish the regulatory codes
and guidelines to govern construction within the Town in a thorough and concise
manner while also providing for the adoption of changes to the codes and
guidelines without the necessity of adopting new ordinances for each change or
amendment to said codes and guidelines. (2017 Code)
9-1-2: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Building Code: The International Building Code (IBC), as adopted by the
State, is hereby adopted as the official Building Code for the Town, subject to
section
9-1-3  of this chapter.
      1.   The International Residential Code Table R301.2(1) is hereby adopted
as part of Stockton Town's adoption of the State of Utah adopted international
building codes.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3429611fc3fafe01efa86daed6f394a4620497b7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1323.png]
 
   B.   Fire Code: The International Fire Code (IFC), as adopted by the State,
is hereby adopted as the official Fire Code for the Town, subject to section
9-1-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Other Codes As Approved: All other Building, Residential, Plumbing,
Electrical, Mechanical, Energy and/or Natural Gas Codes established and adopted
as standard by the State at the time of adoption of the ordinance codified
herein, including their amendments, shall hereby become established as the
adopted codes of the Town, subject to section
9-1-3  of this chapter. (2017 Code; amd. Ord. 2021-03, - -2021)
9-1-3: SUCCESSOR CODES:
The adoption of any and all Codes, as established herein, as the adopted codes
of the Town, shall also adopt any replacement or successor codes as they become
adopted by the State and shall become effective by the Town immediately upon
passage by the State Legislature. (2017 Code)
ARTICLE A. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Building Inspector
9-1A-2: Permits Required
9-1A-3: Exemptions From Building Permit Requirements
9-1A-4: Water, Sewer Service Required
9-1A-5: Off-Site Improvements
9-1A-6: Penalty
9-1A-1: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Responsibility: Administration and enforcement of this title shall be
the responsibility of the Building Inspector, under the direct supervision of
the Mayor and Town Council, who shall direct the Building Inspector as to the
performance of his duties as provided in this title, but the Mayor may from
time to time entrust the administration and enforcement of some part or the
whole of this title to any other offices without amendment to this chapter. All
departments, officials and public employees who are vested with the duty or
authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the provisions of this
title and shall issue no such permits or licenses for uses, buildings or
purposes where the same would be in conflict with the provisions of this title.
Any such permits or licenses, if issued in conflict with the provisions of this
title, shall be null and void.
   B.   Powers And Duties: It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to
inspect or cause to be inspected all buildings in the course of construction or
repair. He shall enforce all of the provisions of this title, entering actions
in the court when necessary. His failure to do so shall not legalize any
violation of such provisions. The Building Inspector shall not issue any permit
unless the plans of and for the proposed erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration or use fully conform to all zoning regulations then
in effect. (Ord. 2000-15, 10-16-2000)
9-1A-2: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: The construction, alteration, repair, removal or
occupancy of any structure, or part thereof, as provided or as restricted in
this title, shall not be commenced or proceeded with except after the issuance
of a written permit for the same by the Building Inspector; provided, that no
permit shall be necessary where the erection, construction, reconstruction or
alteration is minor in character, as defined herein, or as determined by the
Building Inspector.
   B.   Temporary Uses Require Permit: Permits are required for temporary uses
incidental to construction. Such permits are limited to the duration of the
construction work. The maximum time for such a permit is one (1) year; however,
another permit may be issued if cause is shown.
   C.   Application: All applications for building permits shall be accompanied
by a plat, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built
upon, the size and location of the existing buildings, buildings to be erected
and buildings existing on adjacent property, and such other information as may
be necessary to provide for the enforcement of this title.
   D.   Records Maintained: A careful record of such applications and plats
shall be kept in the Town Hall Office or other personnel charged with
administration and enforcement.
   E.   Expiration And Renewal: Every permit issued by the Building Inspector
under the provisions of this title shall expire by limitation and become null
and void if: (1) the building or work authorized by such permit is not
commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of such permit: or
(2) if the building or work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned
at any time after the work is commenced for a period of one hundred eighty
(180) days. Before such work can be recommenced, the permit shall first be
renewed by the Building Inspector and the fee therefore shall be one-half (½)
the amount required for a new permit for such work provided no changes have
been made or will be made in the original plans or scope of such work and
provided no changes have occurred relative to other municipal regulations
impacting the use, size, yard, space, or other requirements concerning the
proposed structure. (Ord. 2000-15, 10-16-2000; amd. 2017 Code; Ord. 2022-4, - -
2022)
9-1A-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Scope: Exemption from the permit requirements of this chapter shall not
be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
violation of the provisions of this chapter or any other laws or ordinances of
the jurisdiction. Although a permit may not be required, other requirements,
such as setbacks, structure heights, fence heights, number of accessory
structures, etc., may be required and enforced by the Building Department, so
all plans must be reviewed by the Department.
   B.   Exemptions: Permits shall not be required for the following:
      1.   Non-structural changes to a building, such as siding, roofing of not
more than three (3) layers, replacement in kind such as doors, windows, etc.
      2.   Cosmetic repairs and maintenance of electrical, mechanical and
plumbing.
      3.   Demolition of accessory buildings known to contain no asbestos.
      4.   Accessory buildings not exceeding two hundred (200) square feet in
size.
      5.   Retaining walls not over four feet (4') in height.
   C.   Conflicts: If this section conflicts with any areas of the development
or building code, then this section shall supersede those sections but will not
change the meaning of any other areas of the development or building code.
(Ord. 03-11, 11-10-2003; amd. 2017 Code)
9-1A-4: WATER, SEWER SERVICE REQUIRED:
   A.   Culinary Water: A building permit may not be issued until the applicant
provides acceptable evidence, if requested, that the premises for which the
building permit is requested will be supplied with potable culinary water
supply of at least twenty (20) pounds per square inch.
   B.   Sewer: A building permit may not be issued until such time as the
applicant provides acceptable evidence, if requested, that the premises for
which the building permit is desired will be supplied with septic system
service in compliance with the Tooele County Health Department. (Ord. 2000-15,
10-16-2000)
9-1A-5: OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Defined: Off-site improvements include all septic, storm and culinary
water, natural gas and underground utility systems installed outside the
boundaries of lots owned or to be offered to the public for private ownership,
and all streets, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, alleys or other improvements
considered off-site improvements in the construction trade.
   B.   Approval Required; Fee: The construction of all off-site improvements
within the Town shall not be commenced or proceeded with except after the
approval of the Town Engineer. All preliminary and final plats, plans and
specifications for off-site improvements shall be submitted to the Town
Engineer for his/her approval prior to submission to the Planning Commission or
the Town Council. The Town Engineer shall collect a plan checking fee when the
said plans, plats and specifications are submitted for approval. The fees shall
be as follows:
 
Preliminary plat  $25.00, plus $1.00 per lot over 10
Final plat        $35.00, plus $1.00 per lot over 10
Engineering plans $15.00 per page if single plans and profile; $30.00 per page
                  if double plans and profile
 
   C.   Surveying And Engineering: The Town Engineer, in his discretion, may do
preliminary surveying, engineering and construction surveying of off-site
improvements for minor improvements to property for curb and gutter
replacements or initial installation where none previously existed and the
property owner requests the same at his own expense, or when a special
improvement district is created for the purpose of providing off-site
improvements within the district. When the Town Engineer performs such labor,
his agent, or the special improvement district for which the work is performed,
the Town Engineer shall charge fees consistent with the prevailing rate for
such services as may be available in the private sector as determined by the
Town Engineer. All such fees collected by the Town Engineer shall be accounted
for by him and shall be remitted to the Town Treasurer.
   D.   Building Permit Required: All off-site improvements within the Town,
except those off-site improvements installed pursuant to the subdivision
process covered under title 10 of this Code, shall be required to be done with
a building permit and fees collected. Such fees shall be payable prior to
issuance of the permit. For purposes of this section, off-site improvements
shall include the installation of sidewalk, curb and gutter, roads, water and
sewer lines and the like. A separate building permit shall not be required for
off-site improvements where a building permit for any given structure is
obtained in connection with doing the same improvement; provided, that the
valuation of the off-site improvement shall be included in the computation of
the permit fee. A failure to comply with this section shall result in the same
penalties as are applicable for building permits under the building code as may
be enacted from time to time. (Ord. 2000-15, 10-16-2000; amd. 2017 Code)
9-1A-6: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the adopted codes or
standards, or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails to comply
with any order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the
Board of Building Code Appeals or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within
the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. The imposition of one (1) penalty for any violation shall
not excuse the violation or permit to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time. When not otherwise specified, each day that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   The application of the penalty identified in subsection A of this
section shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited
conditions. (Ord. 2000-15, 10-16-2000; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Purpose; Limitations
9-2-2: Determination
9-2-3: Method Of Assessing
9-2-4: Special Exceptions
9-2-1: PURPOSE; LIMITATIONS:
The purpose of impact fees is to provide necessary funding for capital
improvements to public facilities, including water, sewer, electric power,
storm drainage, pressurized irrigation, streets and roads, public safety,
recreation or any other public facility authorized by Utah Code Annotated title
11, chapter 36a. Impact fees collected shall be used only for capital
improvements to the public facility for which it was assessed. (Ord. 97-1, 5-5-
1997; amd. 2017 Code)
9-2-2: DETERMINATION:
The Town Council may set impact fees based on studies and analyses of the
anticipated costs to provide adequate public facilities to new developments.
The amount of the impact fees shall not exceed the anticipated cost of
providing adequate public facilities which become necessary as a result of the
development. The Town may also impose an impact fee for public facility costs
previously incurred to the extent that new growth and development will be
served by the previously constructed improvement. In setting the amount of the
fee, the Town Council shall take into consideration the following factors:
   A.   The cost of existing capital facilities;
   B.   The manner of financing existing facilities;
   C.   The relative extent to which newly developed property and other
properties within the Town have already contributed to the costs of existing
capital facilities;
   D.   The relative extent to which newly developed properties and other
properties within the Town will contribute to the cost of existing capital
facilities in the future;
   E.   The relative extent to which newly developed properties are entitled to
a credit because the Town may be requiring owners or developers to provide
common facilities that have historically been provided by the Town and financed
through general taxation or other charges in other parts of the Town;
   F.   The extraordinary costs, if any, in servicing newly developed
properties;
   G.   The time-price deferential inherent in fair comparison of amounts paid
at different times. (Ord. 97-1, 5-5-1997)
9-2-3: METHOD OF ASSESSING:
The Town Council may establish and assess impact fees by an impact fee
enactment and by complying with the notice and hearing provisions of Utah Code
Annotated section 11-36a-501 et seq. (Ord. 97-1, 5-5-1997; amd. 2017 Code)
9-2-4: SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The Town Council retains the authority to adjust any impact fee imposed
in order to respond to unusual circumstances in specific cases and to ensure
that impact fees are fairly imposed. Economic hardship shall not be considered
an unusual circumstance justifying an adjustment to the impact fee.
   B.   The Town Council may, at its sole discretion, adjust any impact fee on
the basis of justice and equity, based upon studies and data submitted by the
developer.
   C.   The Town Council may, at its sole discretion, waive any impact fee for
governmental development or other development activities with broad public
purposes. Any development undertaken to gain a profit, whether or not a profit
is realized, does not qualify as a broad public purpose.
   D.   The Town Council may, at its sole discretion, allow a full or partial
credit against impact fees for any system improvements provided by the
developer that are required as a condition of approval of the development
activity. (Ord. 97-1, 5-5-1997)
ARTICLE A. IMPOSITION OF IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Purpose And Scope
9-2A-2: Fees Imposed
9-2A-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of these impact fees is to provide necessary funding for capital
improvements to public facilities, including water, sewer, electric power,
storm drainage, pressurized irrigation, streets and roads, public safety,
recreation or any other public facility authorized by Utah Code Annotated title
11, chapter 36a. Impact fees collected shall be used only for capital
improvements to the public facility for which it was assessed and shall be
assessed to each new residential or commercial building within the Town
boundaries. This does not include sheds, garages or farm structures, unless
they have a separate water connection. (Ord., 6-10-2002, eff. retroactive to 6-
2-1997; amd. 2017 Code)
9-2A-2: FEES IMPOSED:
The Town Council does hereby set impact fees as follows:
 
Description                                                 Impact Fee Assessed
Water Department: For expansion of the treatment plant and
the distribution system; study, finding and improvement of  $2,800.00
new water sources.
Storm drainage and flood management: To support and improve 300.00
storm drainage and flood management.
Streets and transportation: To upgrade the street system    800.00
within the Town.
Parks and recreation: To establish and support parks,       175.00
recreation facilities and equipment.
Public safety: To upgrade and improve Fire Department and   1,500.00
Police Department equipment and facilities.
 
(Ord., 6-10-2002, eff. retroactive to 6-2-1997)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF BUILDING CODE APPEALS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Composition Of Board
9-3-2: Powers Of Board
9-3-3: Conduct Of Hearings
9-3-4: Rehearings
9-3-5: Appeals Hearing Fee
9-3-1: COMPOSITION OF BOARD:
The Building Inspector should make contact with professional organizations and
select qualified persons for recommendation to the legislative body for
appointment. This five (5) member Board should consist of persons
representative of the construction profession and should consist of a
structural engineer, an architect, a general contractor, a specialty contractor
(other than 1 from a trade regulated by the codes) and a lay member of the
public. The Building Inspector should be a nonvoting, ex-officio member and act
as Secretary. Each Board member shall serve a term of four (4) years, at which
time they may be replaced or reappointed. This group should not act on matters
pertaining to electrical, plumbing and mechanical questions. Those persons
recommended by the Building Inspector will be interviewed by the Mayor or his
official representative. The names will then be submitted to the Town Council
for formal appointment. (Ord. 2000-13, 10-16-2000)
9-3-2: POWERS OF BOARD:
   A.   The rules of procedure are to be established by the Building Inspector
and the BBCA and adopted by the Town Council. The procedures will include a
statement of under what circumstances they will be inclined to grant certain
kinds of relief.
   B.   Under the building code, the Board of Building Code Appeals shall have
no authority relative to interpretation of the administrative provisions of the
Code, nor shall the Board be empowered to waive requirements of the Code. Those
Code requirements which are rigid and fixed are not subject to appeal. Items
which can be appealed must lie within the limits of professional discretion and
in which the item being appealed is not a specific code mandate. (Ord. 2000-13,
10-16-2000; amd. 2017 Code)
9-3-3: CONDUCT OF HEARINGS:
   A.   The BBCA is legally empowered to hold hearings and to conduct
investigations into disputes between the Building Inspector and any member of
the public, and to pass judgment on matters in which the exercise of discretion
is legal. Hearings must be public and held at the Stockton Town Hall Council
room, unless other provisions are made by the Town Council.
   B.   An accurate record of the proceeding shall be kept in the form of
simple minutes and each session shall be tape recorded. Every order and
decision of the BBCA shall be handed down in writing to the Building
Department, with copies to the Building Inspector and to the applicant. Orders
and decisions shall specify as precisely as possible the exact reasons upon
which the decision was based. (Ord. 2000-13, 10-16-2000)
9-3-4: REHEARINGS:
There will be a sixty (60) day period within which a decision by the BBCA can
be taken to the courts for an appeal. During that time period, the BBCA shall
have the power to grant a motion and rehear the whole case. (Ord. 2000-13, 10-
16-2000)
9-3-5: APPEALS HEARING FEE:
A fee for applying for an appeals hearing shall be set by resolution and must
be paid before a hearing date will be set. (Ord. 2000-13, 10-16-2000)
CHAPTER 4
SIDEWALKS, CURBS, GUTTERS AND APPURTENANCES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Permit Required
9-4-3: Inspection And Supervision
9-4-4: Repairs
9-4-5: New Work
9-4-6: Specifications
9-4-7: Shade Trees Adjacent To Sidewalks
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to the provisions of this chapter:
EXTRAORDINARY REPAIRS: Such repairs as shall exceed ten percent (10%) of the
cost of laying a cement sidewalk over a given surface.
NEW WORK: All sidewalk construction which shall exceed fifty percent (50%) of
the cost of laying a cement sidewalk over a given surface.
ORDINARY REPAIRS: On sidewalks, shall be deemed to be such repairs as shall not
exceed ten percent (10%) of the cost of laying cement sidewalk on a given
surface. (Ord. 2000-15, 10-16-2000)
9-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, either as owner, agent, servant, contract or
employee, to construct any sidewalk, curb, gutter or appurtenances thereto,
adjacent to or upon public property within the Town without first having grades
and lines thereof established by the Town. It is unlawful to construct any such
curb, gutter, sidewalk or appurtenance other than according to said grades and
lines, and without first obtaining a building permit for said construction from
the building inspector, and payment of the fees therefor according to the
building permit fee schedule. The acceptance of said permit shall be deemed an
agreement upon the part of the person accepting the same or making application
for the same, as shown on said building permit, to construct said sidewalk,
curb, gutter or appurtenances thereto in accordance with the specifications,
regulations and ordinances of the Town. (Ord. 2000-15, 10-16-2000)
9-4-3: INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION:
All public sidewalks shall be constructed under the inspection and supervision
of the building inspector. (Ord. 2000-15, 10-16-2000)
9-4-4: REPAIRS:
   A.   Property Owner Responsible For Repair: Every person owning a lot or
property within the limits of the Town upon which or adjacent to which a
sidewalk is located, which sidewalk is also adjacent to or upon public property
and is generally used by the public as a public sidewalk, is responsible for
the upkeep and repair of said sidewalk so as to permit a safe and orderly
passage across or adjacent to said premises by pedestrians.
   B.   Unit Of Measurement: The unit of measurement and computation of all
sidewalks in the Town shall be what is normally termed a "section" of cement
sidewalk delineated by the outside edges of the sidewalk and the score lines or
joints.
   C.   Report; Cost Of Repair: Whenever any portion of any sidewalk consisting
of one or more units shall hereafter be found to be out of repair, it shall be
the duty of the building inspector to compute the cost of repairing such
sidewalk, and report the amount and necessity of such repair to the owner of
the premises to which it is adjacent or upon which it lays.
   D.   Repair By Owner; Failure To Comply: The building inspector shall give
the owner of the premises upon which the sidewalk exists, or to which it is
adjacent, no more than sixty (60) days during which time the owner shall repair
the sidewalk. Upon the failure of the owner to make the repairs within said
period of time, the Town shall make the repairs and levy the cost of the same
upon the premises as part of the ad valorem Property Taxes of the said premises
during one taxable year. (Ord. 2000-15, 10-16-2000)
9-4-5: NEW WORK:
Whenever the report of the building inspector regarding any sidewalk shall show
that the construction of a new sidewalk is necessary, the Town may give notice
pursuant to the provisions of the Special Improvement District Ordinances of
the Town for the construction of said new sidewalk and the removal of the old.
(Ord. 2000-15, 10-16-2000)
9-4-6: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Concrete; Thickness: Sidewalks, curbs and gutters, driveway approaches
and all appurtenances thereto shall be constructed of 6-bag mix Portland cement
concrete. All sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be at least four inches (4")
thick, unless vehicular traffic is reasonably anticipated to traverse said
structure. All driveway approaches, waterways and other appurtenances which may
be subject to the weight of vehicles on any occasion shall be a minimum of six
inches (6") in thickness. Sidewalks constructed adjacent to a roll-back curb
shall be considered as subject to occasional weight of a vehicle and shall be a
minimum of six inches (6") in thickness.
   B.   Slump: All sidewalks, curbs, gutters, driveway approaches and other
appurtenances shall have a slump of not less than two inches (2") and not more
than four inches (4"). Entrained air shall be five percent (5%) to seven
percent (7%).
   C.   Curb Design: Curbs shall be high-back design unless adjacent curbs and
gutters are of a roll-back design and the Town specifically permits the builder
to construct a roll-back design curb and gutter. The height of the curb shall
be a minimum of four inches (4") above the gutter flag. The gutter shall be a
minimum of one and one-half inches (11/2") below the gutter flag at the point
where the curb commences. The "gutter flag" is defined as the edge of the
gutter abutting the roadway surfacing material. The curb and gutter shall be a
minimum of six inches (6") in depth of concrete below the flag.
   D.   Newly Created Subdivisions: Sidewalks in newly created subdivisions
shall serve the present and future pedestrian traffic of the vicinity. Such
sidewalks shall be located in accordance with proper land planning procedures,
principles and with due regard for public safety. Sidewalks shall be
constructed parallel to the curb, and a minimum of four feet (4') distant
therefrom so as to provide a park strip between the curb and the sidewalk.
However, should a developer or Town officials believe that proper land planning
practices warrant the construction of a sidewalk adjacent to or as an integral
part of a curb, such persons may petition the Planning Commission at the time
of submission of the subdivision preliminary plan for approval for a sidewalk
adjacent to or as a part of the curb and gutter. The Planning Commission may
recommend approval of the preliminary plan with sidewalks adjacent to or as an
integral part of such curb. All sidewalks shall be a minimum of four feet (4')
wide, unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission in order to match
the new sidewalk to existing sidewalk sections. All sidewalks shall be widened
to five feet (5') in width for a distance of five feet (5') at least every two
hundred feet (200'). Sidewalks constructed adjacent to or as an integral part
of the curb shall provide a means of installing street signs, traffic control
signs and mailboxes.
   E.   Wheelchair Access: Adequate provision shall be made at all crosswalks
and intersections for wheelchairs to cross the curb and gutter. The
specifications of the Town codes shall be complied with in regard thereto.
(Ord. 2000-15, 10-16-2000)
9-4-7: SHADE TREES ADJACENT TO SIDEWALKS:
The Director of Public Works or the Town Engineer shall establish perimeters
within which no shade trees shall be placed adjacent to public sidewalks within
the Town. (Ord. 2000-15, 10-16-2000)
TITLE 10
DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Intent And Purpose
10-1-3: Interpretation
10-1-4: Development Shall Not Burden Other Areas
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be entitled and known as the DEVELOPMENT CODE FOR THE TOWN OF
STOCKTON, UTAH, and may be so cited and pleaded. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-1-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
It is the intent and purpose of the Town Council to avail itself of the powers
granted under Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, as amended, in manner
that will promote the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity
and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the Town, and to
this end:
   A.   To encourage and facilitate orderly growth and development within the
Town.
   B.   To secure economy in Town expenditures and to facilitate adequate
provision for transportation, water, sewage, parks, schools and other public
requirements.
   C.   To lessen congestion in the streets, prevent the overcrowding of land,
and provide adequate light and air.
   D.   To secure safety from fires, floods, traffic hazards and other dangers.
   E.   To stabilize and improve property values.
   F.   To protect the tax base.
   G.   To promote the development of a more attractive, wholesome and
serviceable Town.
   H.   To create conditions favorable to prosperity, civic activities and
recreational, educational and cultural opportunities. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In interpreting and applying this title, the provisions hereof shall be
held to be the minimum requirements needed to promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the
present future in habitants of the Town.
   B.   Where the provisions of this title impose a greater restriction than is
required by any ordinance, code, regulation, standard or other provisions of
law, or by easement, covenant or private agreement, the provisions of this
title shall govern. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-1-4: DEVELOPMENT SHALL NOT BURDEN OTHER AREAS:
   A.   Any development proposed within the Town boundaries shall assume all
costs related to such development. Development, in this sense, includes
individuals as well as subdivisions.
   B.   This shall include, but not be limited to: supplying adequate water
rights for the development; providing means to irrigate the entire acreage
where applicable; putting in all utilities; paving roads, installing curbs,
gutters and sidewalks that meet Town standards; providing open space to the
extent it is required by the Governing Body; protecting vistas that are
important to the citizens of the Town; and controlling drainage water created
by the development on the developed property. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms are defined as
hereinafter set forth. Words in the present tense include the future and the
future includes the present; the word lot includes the words tract or parcel of
land; the words shall and must are always mandatory. The term district is
synonymous with the term zone; the term ordinance is synonymous with the term
code. Words not included herein, but which are defined in the building code,
shall be constructed as defined therein.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building located on a lot or parcel of land, the use of
which is appropriate, subordinate and customarily incidental to that of the
main building and/or principal use of land.
ANIMAL UNIT:
   A.   No more than three (3) animal units per acre.
   B.   An animal unit shall be one (1) or proportionate combination of the
following:
      1.   A horse or cow or other similar large domestic animal shall be
counted as an animal unit;
      2.   Medium sized domestic animals, such as sheep or goats, shall be
counted at a ratio of two (2) per animal unit;
      3.   Small domestic animals and fowl shall be counted at a ratio of ten
(10) per animal unit.
   C.   For types of animals not specified above, the Planning Commission shall
determine the number which shall constitute an animal unit; except that, for
the purpose of compliance with this title, porcine (pig) and mink are
specifically excluded from consideration as part of an animal unit.
   D.   For the purpose of determining compliance, said definitions shall not
include the unweaned offspring less than four (4) months old of any residing
animal.
BUILDABLE AREA: A portion of a site, which conforms to all minimum criteria,
required for placement of a structure.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or property of any kind, but not including fences or corrals.
COMMON AREA: An area designated to serve two (2) or more dwelling units in
separate ownership with convenient access to the area.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN (MASTER PLAN): A coordinated plan which has been prepared
and adopted for the purpose of guiding development, including, but not limited
to, a plan or plans of land use, resource, circulation, housing and public
facilities and grounds.
CONDOMINIUM: The ownership of a single unit in a multi-unit project, together
with an undivided interest in common in the common areas and facilities of the
property.
CONDOMINIUM PROJECT: A plan or project whereby two (2) or more units, together
with an undivided interest in the common area or facility, are separately
offered or proposed to be offered for sale. This definition shall apply to
existing or proposed apartments, commercial or industrial buildings, or
structures. "Condominium project" shall also mean the property when the context
so requires.
CORRAL: A fence or other barrier used for the confinement of livestock for
which the primary source of food is provided from other than grazing of grass
or herbage growing on the site.
CUSTOMARY RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure constructed on the same
zoning lot as a dwelling and which is intended for the incidental and exclusive
use of the residents of said dwelling, including, but not limited to, detached
garages, carports, swimming pools, tennis courts, greenhouses, storage
buildings and satellite dishes.
DAY CARE/PRESCHOOL (COMMERCIAL): A nonresidential facility providing for the
care, supervision, and protection of seventeen (17) or more children at any one
time and complying with all the requirements as licensed and monitored by the
State of Utah Department of Human Services. For the purposes of this Code,
Commercial Day Care includes preschools offering educational programs to
seventeen (17) or more children at any one time. All Nonresidential Commercial
Day Cares and Preschools shall follow all standards for site plan development,
including parking, landscaping, building setbacks and so forth as required by
the zoning district.
DAY CARE/PRESCHOOL (HOME OCCUPATION): The care of children within a dwelling
unit that provides care for four (4) to sixteen (16) children (including
"infant child care" and "family child care" as defined by the Department of
Human Services) at any one time under fourteen (14) years of age and complying
with all the requirements as licensed and monitored by the State of Utah
Department of Human Services. Home Occupation Day Care/Preschool does not mean
care provided to children by or in the homes of parents, legal guardians,
grandparents, brothers, sisters, uncles, or aunts.
DENSITY: The number of dwelling units per acre of land.
DESIGNATED TOWN STREET: A Federal or State highway or Town street as shown on
the official street map of the Town.
DOCUMENTATION, DECLARATION: The legal instruments required under the provisions
of this title and applicable to State law for approval of large scale
development or subdivisions.
DWELLING, CONVENTIONAL CONSTRUCTION: A dwelling which is constructed in
compliance with the provisions of the building codes as adopted by the Town and
the State.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building containing three (3) or more dwelling
units.
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A detached residence designed for or occupied by one (1)
family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building containing two (2) dwelling units.
DWELLING UNIT: One (1) or more rooms in a building designed for living purposes
(bathing, eating and sleeping) and occupied by one (1) family.
FAMILY: An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption, living together in a single dwelling unit and maintaining a common
household. A family may include three (3), but not more than three (3),
nonrelated persons living with the residing family. The term "family" shall not
be construed to mean a group of nonrelated individuals, a fraternity, club or
institutional group.
FENCE, SIGHT OBSCURING: A fence which permits vision through not more than
twenty percent (20%) of each square foot.
FINAL PLAT, RECORD OF SURVEY MAP: A plat of survey of land within a subdivision
or large scale development, which has been prepared in accordance with
applicable Town standards and/or State statutes for the purposes of recording
in the Office of the County Recorder.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the areas of the several floors of the building,
including basement, mezzanines and penthouses of headroom height (6 feet)
measured from the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating
buildings. The "floor area" does not include unoccupied features, such as pipe
trenches, exterior terraces or steps, chimneys, roof overhangs, etc.
GRADE OF BUILDING:
   A.   For buildings fronting one (1) street only, the elevation of the
sidewalks or centerline of street, whichever is higher, at right angles to the
midpoint of the fronting walls.
   B.   For buildings fronting on more than one (1) street, the average of the
elevations of the sidewalks or centerline of street out from the midpoint of
the fronting wall.
   C.   For buildings having no walls fronting the streets, the average level
of sidewalk or centerline of surrounding streets, whichever is higher.
HEALTH AGENCY: The Health Department or any representative authorized by the
Town Council to represent them in matters relating to health and sanitation.
HEIGHT OF BUILDING: The vertical distance from the grade to the square of the
building.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation conducted within a dwelling or accessory
buildings on the premises and carried on by persons residing in the dwelling.
HOUSEHOLD PETS: Animals or fowl customarily permitted within the house and/or
on the premises and kept for the company or pleasure of the occupants, such as
dogs, cats and canaries, but not including livestock. Except as may be approved
for a kennel business operation, no residential use shall have more than three
(3) dogs over the age of four (4) months. In residential zones, chickens and
rabbits shall also be construed as household pets subject to the following:
   A.   No single-family residence shall maintain chickens or rabbits, the
total number of which shall not exceed ten (10);
   B.   Roosters are prohibited in a residential zone;
   C.   Chickens and rabbits shall be sheltered in a coop or hutch located
behind the rear line of the residential dwelling, and not less than ten feet
(10') from the nearest property line;
   D.   Chickens or rabbits shall not be permitted outside a coop or hutch
unless effective fencing is installed to preclude said animals from entering
adjacent properties;
   E.   Said animals shall be cared for and maintained in a way so as not to
create a nuisance.
INFORMATION BROCHURE: A written statement setting forth the organizational
structure of a homeowners' association, and the rights and obligations of the
developers, homeowners' association, lot owners and the Town.
KENNEL: A location where a business or person engages in boarding, breeding,
buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling dogs, or other animals.
A person who harbors dogs shall be deemed to operate a kennel when there are
four (4) or more dogs at the residence than are allowed by zoning, and when
such dogs are at least four (4) months old.
LANDSCAPING: The use and integration of a combination of planted trees, shrubs,
vines, ground covers, lawns, rocks, foundations, pools, art works, screens,
walls, fences, benches or surfaced walkways set into an aesthetically pleasing
arrangement as determined by the Planning Commission or their authorized
representatives. However, the use of structures or surfaced walkways alone, in
the absence of planted trees, lawns, etc., shall not meet the requirements of
this title.
LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT AREA: All portions of a lot devoted exclusively to the
care and keeping of livestock, including, but not limited to, barns, sheds,
pens, coops, corrals and pastures, but not including any portion of a parcel
devoted to a dwelling, yard, garden, parking area or unutilized open area.
LOT: A. An independently described parcel of land as shown on the records of
the County Recorder; or
   B.   Two (2) or more contiguous parcels, each of which qualify under
subsection A of this definition and for which a declaration of zoning lot has
been approved and filed in the Office of the County Recorder.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on two (2) intersecting or intercepting streets
where the interior angle or intersection or interception does not exceed one
hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The front boundary line of a lot bordering on the street or,
in the case of a flag lot, the boundary line located closest to and
approximately parallel to the street upon which the driveway portion abuts.
LOT LINE, REAR: A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line. In the case of an irregular, triangular or gore shaped lot, the rear
lot line shall be a line within the lot parallel to and at the maximum distance
from the front lot line, having a length of at least ten feet (10').
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot boundary lines not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
MAIN BUILDING: One (1) or more of the principal buildings upon a lot. Garages,
carports and other buildings which are attached to a dwelling or other main
building or which are situated closer to the main building than the minimum
distance specified in the zone requirements shall be considered as a part of
the main building.
MANUFACTURED HOUSING: A dwelling constructed in accordance with the HUD Code
for manufactured housing.
MINOR UTILITY TRANSMISSION PROJECT: The construction of transmission and
distribution facilities for electric power, telephone, gas and oil, water,
cable TV, microwave and similar commodities primarily to structures in the
immediate vicinity.
MOBILE HOME: A dwelling unit which is designed to be transported, after
fabrication, on its own wheels or on detachable wheels, and which is designed
and intended for permanent occupancy as an independent dwelling unit, but which
does not comply with the Town adopted Building, Mechanical, Electrical and
Plumbing Codes, or the HUD Code, for manufactured housing. The term "mobile
home" shall also include any vehicle meeting the above description which is
used for an office, classroom, laboratory, processing, manufacturing, retail
sales or other such use.
MOBILE HOME PARK: An area or tract of land used to accommodate two (2) or more
mobile homes.
NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD: A parcel of land which does not conform to the
minimum area and/or width requirements for the zone in which it is located, but
which was legally created and was shown on the records of the County Recorder
as a conforming lot of record prior to the effective date of the now
controlling provisions. Substandard lots in illegal subdivisions shall not be
considered as nonconforming lots of record.
NONCONFORMING USE OR BUILDING: A building or structure, or portion thereof, or
use of a building or land, existing at the time of the passage of this title
which does not conform to the zoning regulations as set forth herein but which
legally existed prior to the effective date of the now controlling provision.
OFF STREET PARKING: An area adjoining a building providing for the parking of
automobiles, which does not include a public street, but has convenient access
to it.
PASTURE: An area confined by wire, wood or other fence structures used for the
confinement of livestock for which the primary source of food is obtained from
the grazing of grass or herbage growing on the site.
PUBLIC AGENCY PARK: A tract of land which is owned by a governmental agency and
which has been partially or totally developed or designated for recreation or
open space purposes.
PUBLIC BUILDING: A building owned and operated or owned and intended to be
operated by a public agency of the United States of America, the State of Utah
or any of its subdivisions.
PUBLIC SCHOOL: One (1) or more buildings, together with the appurtenant yards,
incidental structures, parking areas, etc., operated by the school districts or
other public agency for educational purposes.
RECREATION VEHICLE: A vehicle used, designed or maintained primarily as a
temporary dwelling for travel, vacation or recreation purposes, having a width
of not more than eight feet (8') and a length of not more than forty feet
(40'), and which can be driven or pulled upon the highways without a special
permit.
RECREATION VEHICLE COURT: An area or tract of land used to accommodate two (2)
or more recreation vehicles or camper units for a short period of time (less
than 30 days).
SETBACK: The shortest distance between the property line and the building, or
part thereof.
SIGN: Any device designated and intended to bring the subject thereof to the
attention of the public; provided, however, that the following shall not be
included in the application of regulations relating to signs:
   A.   Flags or insignia of any government, except when displayed in
connection with a commercial promotion.
   B.   Legal notices and signs used for regulation, identification and
informational purposes erected by a governmental body.
   C.   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private property but
bearing no advertising matter.
   D.   Political campaign signs.
SIGN, ACCESSORY: A sign which directs attention to a business or profession,
conducted on the premises.
SIGN, NONACCESSORY, BILLBOARD: A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment, which is conducted, sold or offered at a
location other than the premises.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground, but not including a tent or vehicle.
SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided into
two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of land
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease or
development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms, and conditions.
   B.   "Subdivision" includes:
      1.   The division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded
instrument; and
      2.   Except as provided in subsection C of this definition, divisions of
land for residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used
for commercial, agricultural and industrial purposes.
   C.   "Subdivision" does not include:
      1.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one (1) of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous
parcel of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined
parcel nor the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an
applicable land use ordinance;
      2.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining unsubdivided
properties adjusting their mutual boundary if:
         a.   No new lot is created; and
         b.   The adjustment does not violate applicable land use ordinances;
      3.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
         a.   Revising the legal description of more than one (1) contiguous
unsubdivided parcel of property into one (1) legal description encompassing all
such parcels of property; or
         b.   Joining a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided, if the joinder does not violate
applicable land use ordinances;
      4.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
properties adjusting their mutual boundary if:
         a.   No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the
adjustment; and
         b.   The adjustment will not violate any applicable land use
ordinance; or
      5.   A bona fide division or partition of land by deed or other
instrument where the land use authority expressly approves in writing the
division in anticipation of further land use approvals on the parcel or
parcels.
   D.   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a subdivision under
this definition as to the unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the
unsubdivided parcel to the Town's subdivision ordinance.
YARD: Any space on a lot other than a court, which is open and unobstructed
from the ground to the sky.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the minimum horizontal distance between the main building and the
front of the lot.
YARD, REQUIRED: The open space around buildings, which is required by the terms
of this title.
ZONING LOT; APPROVED LOT; APPROVED PARCEL: A unit of land comprised of one (1)
or more platted lots or parcels of land which:
   A.   Meet all existing area, width, access and other applicable requirements
for lots within the zone in which it is located; and
   B.   Is shown as a separate lot in a subdivision or large scale development,
which has been approved in accordance with the applicable ordinance or is
legally exempted from compliance with said ordinance. A parcel, which is part
of an unapproved or illegal subdivision, shall not qualify as a "zoning lot".
   C.   Has heretofore, through the Town planning and zoning approval process,
been reviewed and approved for its current use by the Town. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017; amd. 2017 Code; Ord. 2019-15, 12-12-2019; Ord. 2021-05, 5-13-2021)
CHAPTER 3
POWERS AND DUTIES OF TOWN OFFICIALS
ARTICLE A. TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
10-3A-1: Appointments
10-3A-2: Comprehensive Plan
10-3A-3: Official Map
10-3A-4: Zoning Regulations
10-3A-5: Subdivision Regulations
10-3A-6: Condominium Projects
10-3A-7: Enforcement Of Development Regulations
10-3A-1: APPOINTMENTS:
   A.   Planning Commission: The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Town
Council, shall appoint a Planning Commission for the Town. The number of
members, terms of office, mode of appointment and other details relating to the
organization and procedures of the Planning Commission shall be as set forth
under article B of this chapter. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
   B.   Appeal Authority: The Town has created an Appeal Authority (Hearing
Officer) which shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of
the Town Council, as provided in section
10-3C-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Town Engineer: The Town Council may appoint and fix compensation for a
Town Engineer. The powers and duties of the Town Engineer shall be the same as
set forth under article D of this chapter. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3A-2: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The Town Council may adopt a Comprehensive Plan of the Town, or any part
thereof. Upon the adoption of such Plan, any acceptance, widening, removal,
extension, relocation, narrowing, vacation, abandonment, change of use,
acquisition of land for, or sale or lease of any street or other public way,
ground, place, property or structure, or any authorization or construction of
any street, park or other public way, ground, place or space, or any public
building or structure, or public utility, whether publicly or privately owned,
shall either: a) conform to said Plan as to the location and extent thereof; or
b) shall have been submitted to and approved by the Planning Commission, or in
instance of a disapproval by the Planning Commission, overruled by the Town
Council, all in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-404. (Ord.
17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3A-3: OFFICIAL MAP:
The Town Council may establish an official map of streets for the whole or any
parts of the Town and may adopt such map by ordinance. The content of such map
and all actions relating to the preparation, adoption and enforcement shall be
in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-407, and any other
applicable provisions of State law. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3A-4: ZONING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Authority: The Town Council, upon the receipt of proposed regulations
for the zoning of the Town (and any subsequent amendment to such regulation)
from the Planning Commission, and the holding of a public hearing thereon in
accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-205, may,
by ordinance, enact zoning regulations within the Town for the purpose of
promoting health, safety, morals and the general welfare of the community.
   B.   Purpose And Scope: Such regulations shall be made in accordance with a
Comprehensive Zoning Plan designed to lessen congestion in the streets, to
secure safety from fire, panic and other danger, to promote health and the
general welfare, to encourage energy efficient patterns of development, the use
of energy conservation, solar and renewable energy sources, and to assure
access to sunlight for solar energy devices, to provide adequate light and air,
to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of
population, to facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage,
schools, parks and other public requirements. Such regulations shall be made
with reasonable consideration, among other things, to the character of the zone
and its peculiar suitability for particular uses, and with a view to conserving
the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land
throughout the Town.
   C.   Powers: In order to accomplish the above stated purpose, the zoning
ordinance may divide the Town into districts or zones, and may regulate the
location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry,
residence or other purpose, the erection, construction or reconstruction of
buildings and structures, the height, number of stories and size of buildings
and other structures, the height and location of trees and other vegetation,
the percentage of lots that may be occupied, the size of yards, courts and
other open spaces, the density of population and such other characteristics as
may be permitted by law. Thereafter all construction or change in use of land
or buildings shall conform to applicable provisions of the adopted ordinance.
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3A-5: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Authority: The Town Council, upon the receipt of proposed regulations
governing the subdivision of land (and any subsequent amendment to such
regulations) from the Planning Commission, and the holding of a public hearing
thereon, may adopt said regulations for the Town by ordinance.
   B.   Approval Required: Thereafter, no plat of a subdivision of land within
the Town shall be filed or recorded until it shall have been submitted to and
approved by the Town Council, in accordance with the terms of said subdivision
regulations, and such approval entered in writing on the plat. The Planning
Commission shall, in addition to that, require the approval by the Town
Council. The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision without such
approval shall be null and void and the sale of lots in any such unapproved
subdivision shall be considered a violation of the subdivision ordinance for
each lot sold. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3A-6: CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS:
   A.   Regulations Adopted: Upon receipt of proposed condominium regulations
as prepared by the Planning Commission, the Town Council may adopt such
regulations by ordinance.
   B.   Approval Required: No condominium project or any record of survey map,
declaration or other required material shall be recorded until it shall have
been submitted to and approved by the Town Council. The approval by the Town
Council shall be in addition to the approval required by the Planning
Commission. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3A-7: ENFORCEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
The Town Council shall have the authority and responsibility for ensuring
compliance with the adopted zoning, subdivision and official map ordinances,
and in carrying out such responsibility may:
   A.   Withhold Permits: Withhold the issuance of building permits when the
proposed development is not in conformance with the adopted regulations;
   B.   Penalty: Prosecute any violation of such regulations as a Class C
misdemeanor;
   C.   Other Action: Institute injunction, mandamus, abatement or any other
appropriate action to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove any unlawful building,
use or act. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
ARTICLE B. PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
10-3B-1: Established; Composition; Appointment
10-3B-2: Terms Of Office; Vacancies; Removal
10-3B-3: Organization; Adoption Of Rules; Record Of Proceedings
10-3B-4: Quorum; Minimum Vote Required; Alternate Members
10-3B-5: Employees; Expenditures
10-3B-6: Powers And Duties
10-3B-1: ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT:
Pursuant to authority granted in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-301 et seq.,
as amended, the Town Council hereby creates a Planning Commission within and
for the Town, to be known as the Stockton Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission shall consist of five (5) regular members and up to two (2)
alternate members. Regular and alternate members are to be appointed by the
Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Town Council, from among the
residents of the Town. The members shall be selected without respect to
political affiliations and shall serve without compensation, except for
reasonable expenses. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3B-2: TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES; REMOVAL:
   A.   Terms Of Office: The term of office of the Town Council representative
shall be as determined by the action of the Town Council. The terms of the
appointive members shall be for four (4) years and until their successors have
been appointed; provided, that the terms if the members holding office at the
time of passage of this title shall be arranged such that the terms of one (1)
member shall expire each year. Appointments made thereafter will be made for a
full four (4) year term.
   B.   Alternate Members: The terms of the alternate members shall be for a
period of one (1) year and until their successors have been appointed.
Alternate members shall be designated as first and second alternates, in
accordance with their respective time of appointment.
   C.   Vacancies: Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of
terms shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   D.   Removal: Members may be removed after a public hearing by a majority
vote of the Town Council. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3B-3: ORGANIZATION; ADOPTION OF RULES; RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Chairperson: At the first meeting of each year, the Planning Commission
shall elect from its membership a Chairperson, who shall serve for a term of
one (1) year until a new Chairperson is elected. It shall be the duty of the
Chairperson to preside over and conduct all meetings of the Commission. The
Chairperson, with the consent of the Commission, shall make such assignments
and delegations to the members of the Commission and the staff and consultants
as are deemed necessary or desirable for the carrying out of the Commission
business.
   B.   Rules Adopted: The Commission shall adopt rules for its own
organization and for the transaction of its business not in conflict with this
chapter or other ordinances, and shall keep an accurate record of disposition
of all matters coming before it. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3B-4: QUORUM; MINIMUM VOTE REQUIRED; ALTERNATE MEMBERS:
   A.   Quorum: A minimum of four (4) regular and/or alternate members in
attendance at the meeting is required to constitute a quorum. The minimum
number of yes votes necessary to earn an action of the Commission shall be a
majority of the members of the quorum in attendance, but shall never be less
than three (3).
   B.   Voting: All regular members shall be entitled to vote on matters coming
before the Commission. Alternate members shall be designated to sit as voting
members of the Commission at any time one (1) or more regular members are
absent from the meeting. The designation of the alternate members to voting
status shall be made by the Chairperson at the commencement of the meeting in
accordance with the seniority of the alternate members in attendance at the
time, and any alternate so designated shall serve as a voting member until the
conclusion of the meeting. If, during the course of a meeting, the number of
voting members and alternate members designated to voting status in attendance
exceeds five (5), the membership of the Commission shall, until the conclusion
of the meeting, be expanded to the number of voting members and designated
alternate members in attendance. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3B-5: EMPLOYEES; EXPENDITURES:
The Planning Commission may appoint such other employees and staff as it may
deem necessary for its work and may contract with Town planners and other
consultants, provided its expenditures, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the
amounts appropriated for that purpose by the Town Council. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
10-3B-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Planning Commission shall have such powers as may be necessary to enable it
to perform its functions and promote Town planning as follows:
   A.   Preparation Of Comprehensive Plan: It shall be the function and duty of
the Planning Commission, after holding public hearings, to make and adopt and
certify to the Town Council, a Comprehensive Plan for the physical development
of the Town, including any areas outside of its boundaries which, in the
Commission's judgment, bear relation to the planning of the Town. The
Comprehensive Plan, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts and descriptive
and explanatory matter, shall show the Planning Commission recommendations for
physical developments of the Town, and may include, among other things: the
general location and extent of streets and other methods of circulation and
transportation; the general location and extent of public utilities for water,
power, sanitation or other purposes; the general location and extent of parks,
playgrounds and drainage facilities; and the use of land, whether for
residences, commerce, industry, agriculture, flood channels or open space.
   B.   Prepare Reports And Recommendations; Entry Upon Land: The Planning
Commission may make reports and recommendations relating to the plan of
development of the Town to public officials and agencies, other organizations
and citizens. It may recommend to the executive or legislative officials
programs for public improvements and the financing thereof. The Planning
Commission, its members and employees, in the performance of its functions, may
enter upon any land at reasonable times to make examinations and surveys and
place and maintain necessary monuments and marks thereon.
   C.   Regulations Governing Subdivision Of Land: It shall be the duty of the
Planning Commission to prepare regulations governing the subdivision of land
within the Town, amendment to such regulations, and to submit said regulations
or amendments to the Town Council for public hearing and adoption.
   D.   Approve Subdivision Plan And Plats: It shall be the duty of the
Planning Commission to review and approve all subdivision developments. No plat
of a subdivision of land within the Town shall be filed or recorded in the
County Recorder's Office until it shall have been submitted to and approved by
the Planning Commission and such approval entered in writing on the plat. The
approval by the Planning Commission shall be in addition to the approval
required from the Town Council. The filing or recording of a plat of a
subdivision without approval of the Planning Commission shall be null and void
and the sale of lots in any such unapproved subdivision shall be considered a
violation of the subdivision ordinance for each lot sold.
   E.   Prepare, Recommend Amendments To Zoning Regulations:
      1.   The Planning Commission, through its own initiative may, or upon
receipt of a petition from an affected property owner, or by order of the Town
Council, shall make and certify to the Town Council recommendations for the
amendment of the zoning regulations and map.
      2.   No amendment to the text or map may be adopted by the Town Council
unless the Planning Commission has reviewed and made recommendations to the
Town Council regarding that amendment. The Planning Commission shall have
thirty (30) days from the date the request is made to the Chairperson to
respond to any request from the Town Council for recommendation.
   F.   Preparation Of Regulations Governing Condominium Development: The
Planning Commission shall prepare regulations governing the approval,
construction and maintenance of condominium projects, or amendments to such
regulations, and shall submit said regulations to the Town Council for
adoption.
   G.   Review And Approval Of Condominium Projects: It shall be the duty of
the Planning Commission to review and approve all condominium projects. The
filing or recording of any record or survey map, declaration or other material
for condominium projects, without such approval, shall be null and void. The
approval by the Planning Commission shall be in addition to the approval from
the Town Council.
   H.   Preparation Of Capital Improvement Program: The Planning Commission
through its own initiative may, or by order of the Town Council shall, make and
recommend to the Town Council a capital improvement program which shall set
forth an orderly program for the acquisition of land and/or the construction of
buildings, utilities and other facilities needed for Town purposes.
   I.   Conduct Hearing And Meetings: The Planning Commission may conduct
hearings and meetings with interested property owners, officials and citizens
in the process of carrying out the functions and duties of their office. (Ord.
17-02, 3-16-2017)
ARTICLE C. APPEAL AUTHORITY
SECTION:
10-3C-1: Legal Authority
10-3C-2: Creation Of Appeal Authority; Qualifications; Selection
10-3C-3: Powers And Duties
10-3C-4: Hearings, Rules And Decisions
10-3C-5: Appeals Process; Notice Of Appeal
10-3C-6: Review Of Land Use Authority Record
10-3C-7: Variances
10-3C-8: Effective Date; Final Decision; Appeal To District Court
10-3C-9: Ex Parte Communications; Penalty
10-3C-10: Governmental Immunity
10-3C-11: Compensation; Contract
10-3C-12: District Court Review Of Appeal Authority Decisions
10-3C-13: Matrix
10-3C-1: LEGAL AUTHORITY:
Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-701, the Town is required to
establish one (1) or more appeal authorities to hear and decide requests for
variances from the terms of the land use ordinances of the Town, appeals from
decisions applying the land use ordinances of the Town, and appeals from a fee
charged in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-510. The timely
and specific appeal to the Appeal Authority described in this article, and the
exhaustion of administrative remedies, shall be conditions precedent to
judicial review of any decision. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3C-2: CREATION OF APPEAL AUTHORITY; QUALIFICATIONS; SELECTION:
The Town creates the position of Land Use Hearing Officer (the "Hearing
Officer") as an Appeal Authority for the Town. The Town may appoint one (1) or
more Hearing Officers to ensure availability as required for the efficient
disposition of appeals brought under this title. The Town Council shall act as
an Appeal Authority where expressly required by this Title, in which event the
Town Council shall follow the procedures and requirements of this article; all
other matters shall be heard by the Hearing Officer.
   A.   Appointment: The Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor, with
the advice and consent of the Town Council.
   B.   Qualifications: The Hearing Officer shall be or have been a
professional in law, land use or public administration, and shall have the
knowledge, training and experience necessary to effectively conduct
administrative hearings regarding variances and appeals of land use decisions,
including knowledge and familiarity with the requirements of constitutional due
process.
   C.   Prohibited Appointments: The Hearing Officer shall not be a member of
the Town Council, Planning Commission, Town staff or any other elected or
appointed official of the Town.
   D.   Term: The Hearing Officer shall serve for a term of one (1) year, or as
defined in a written agreement with the Town. The initial term may be extended
from time to time by the Mayor. The Hearing Officer serves at the pleasure of
the Town and, with the advice and consent of the Town Council, may be dismissed
by the Mayor with or without cause. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3C-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Hearing Officer shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by law and
by this title, including to hear and decide appeals from decisions applying the
Town land use ordinance, requests for variances from the terms of the land use
ordinance, and appeals from any fee imposed by the Town under this title. The
Hearing Officer shall act in a quasi- judicial matter, consistent with the
requirements of this article, and shall serve as the Town's final arbiter of
issues involving land use ordinances as described in this title.
   A.   Land Use Authority Appeals: Except as otherwise provided herein, the
Hearing Officer is authorized to hear and decide appeals from any final order,
requirement, determination or decision of the Town Engineer, the Building
Inspector, the Planning Commission, or any other Land Use Authority of the Town
related to the application of this title.
   B.   Prohibited Appeals: The Hearing Officer may not hear or decide an
appeal of any legislative act of the Town Council, including, without
limitation, zoning ordinance amendments. Except as expressly provided in this
article on variances, the Hearing Officer may not waive or modify the terms or
requirements of this title.
   C.   Town Council Appeals: In the event an administrative matter is
determined by the Town Council, either as an Appeal Authority, or after
recommendation by the Planning Commission, the appeal of a decision of the Town
Council shall be taken to the Hearing Officer. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3C-4: HEARINGS, RULES AND DECISIONS:
Hearings before the Hearing Officer are convened on a case by case basis when
the Town Clerk has received an application for a variance or a notice of appeal
of a land use decision. Upon the filing of an appeal, the Town Clerk shall
forthwith transmit to the Hearing Officer all the papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   A.   Adoption Of Rules: The Hearing Officer may adopt rules for the
regulation of his/her procedures and the conduct of his/her duties. Such rules
shall be consistent with State law and with the provisions of this Code, and
shall be approved by the Town Council.
   B.   Oaths, Witnesses: The Hearing Officer may administer oaths and compel
the attendance of witnesses.
   C.   Open, Public Meetings: All meetings of the Hearing Officer shall comply
with the requirements of the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, Utah Code
Annotated section 52-4-101 et seq.
   D.   Effective Date Of Decisions: Decisions of the Hearing Officer become
effective on the date the Hearing Officer issues a written decision, unless a
different time is designated at the time the decision is made.
   E.   Notice Of Decision: Any decision of the Hearing Officer shall be served
on all parties to the proceeding, and may be posted as required for public
notice. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3C-5: APPEALS PROCESS; NOTICE OF APPEAL:
The applicant, a Board or officer of the Town, or any person adversely affected
by a decision administering or interpreting a land use ordinance may, within
ten (10) days of the date of the final decision, appeal that decision to the
Appeal Authority by alleging that there is error in any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Land Use Authority in the administration
or interpretation of this title. The appeal shall be filed, in writing, with
the Office of the Town Clerk, and shall state with specificity the reasons for
the appeal.
   A.   Presentation Of Information; New Information Prohibited: An appellant
or adversely affected party must first present to the Land Use Authority any
and all information pertinent to its land use application or request. On
appeal, the appellant may not bring new information for consideration by the
Hearing Officer that has not first been presented to the Land Use Authority
during its consideration of the matter.
   B.   Theory For Relief: An appellant or adversely affected party shall
present to the Hearing Officer every theory for relief that it can raise in
District Court.
   C.   Burden Of Proof: An appellant or adversely affected party bears the
burden to prove, by substantial evidence, that there is error in any order,
requirement, decision or determination in the administration or interpretation
of this title.
   D.   Scope Of Authority: The Hearing Officer shall presume that the decision
that is being appealed is correct, and shall only modify the decision if there
is substantial evidence presented to the Hearing Officer that the Town or its
Planning Commission erred in its application or interpretation of this title.
      1.   When presented with legal issues, the Hearing Officer shall apply a
correctness standard to its review. Inasmuch as no specialized knowledge is
necessary to make such a determination, no deference is given to the Land Use
Authority.
      2.   When presented with factual issues, the Hearing Officer shall apply
an arbitrary and capricious standard to its review, and the decision of a Land
Use Authority shall not be disturbed if there is substantial evidence in the
record that discloses a reasonable basis for its decision. Inasmuch as land use
authorities and administrative officials have specialized knowledge in the
field of planning and land use and are expected to implement the goals and
policies of the Town, they should be allowed a comparatively wide latitude of
discretion. Their decisions should be disturbed only if the Hearing Officer
determines that the decision is arbitrary, capricious or illegal.
   E.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in the action that
is the subject of the appeal. In the event a stay would cause imminent peril to
life or property, the party seeking protection from imminent peril may seek an
expedited ruling from the Hearing Officer or may seek immediate relief from the
District Court.
   F.   Due Process: Proceedings and hearings before the Hearing Officer shall
be in conformance with the general principles of due process.
   G.   Applicant Appearance: The person or entity filing the appeal may appear
at such hearing in person, by agent, or by an attorney of his/her choice and
may present to the Hearing Officer any evidence or argument to support the
contentions on appeal.
   H.   Land Use Authority Appearance: The Land Use Authority that rendered the
decision that is being appealed shall appear and present any evidence or
argument it finds necessary to justify its decision.
   I.   Records Maintained; Findings: The Hearing Officer shall cause a record
of its proceedings to be kept, including a recording of all evidentiary
proceedings and all oral arguments of the parties, and shall make written
findings and conclusions of all its decisions. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3C-6: REVIEW OF LAND USE AUTHORITY RECORD:
The Hearing Officer's review of any decision of a Land Use Authority shall be
confined to the administrative record developed by the Land Use Authority,
unless the Hearing Officer determines that the record is incomplete or
deficient. If the Hearing Officer determines that the record is incomplete or
deficient, the Hearing Officer may review the matter de novo. (Ord. 17-02, 3-
16-2017)
10-3C-7: VARIANCES:
Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the requirements of
this title as applied to a parcel of property that such person owns, leases or
in which such person holds some other beneficial interest, may apply to the
Hearing Officer for a variance from the terms of this title.
   A.   Conditions For Granting Variance: The Appeal Authority may grant a
variance only if:
      1.   Literal enforcement of the land use ordinance would cause an
unreasonable hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the
general purpose of the land use ordinances;
      2.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do not
generally apply to other properties in the same zone;
      3.   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial
property right possessed by other property in the same zone;
      4.   The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and will
not be contrary to the public interest; and
      5.   The spirit of the land use ordinance is observed and substantial
justice done.
   B.   Unreasonable Hardship:
      1.   In determining whether or not enforcement of the land use ordinance
would cause unreasonable hardship under subsection A1 of this section, the
Appeal Authority may not find an unreasonable hardship unless the alleged
hardship:
         a.   Is located on or associated with the property for which the
variance is sought; and
         b.   Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from
conditions that are general to the neighborhood.
      2.   In determining whether or not enforcement of the land use ordinance
would cause unreasonable hardship under subsection A1 of this section, the
Appeal Authority may not find an unreasonable hardship if the hardship is self-
imposed or economic.
   C.   Special Circumstances: In determining whether or not there are special
circumstances attached to the property under subsection A2 of this section, the
Appeal Authority may find that special circumstances exist only if the special
circumstances:
      1.   Relate to the hardship complained of; and
      2.   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in
the same zone.
   D.   Burden Of Proof: The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that
all conditions justifying a variance have been met.
   E.   Run With Land: Variances run with the land.
   F.   Use Variances Prohibited: The Appeal Authority may not grant a use
variance.
   G.   Imposition Of Additional Requirements: In granting a variance, the
Appeal Authority may impose additional requirements on the applicant that will:
      1.   Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; or
      2.   Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or
modified. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3C-8: EFFECTIVE DATE; FINAL DECISION; APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT:
The decision of the Hearing Officer shall take effect on the date when it
issues a written decision, or at a different time as may be designated in the
written decision. A written decision of the Hearing Officer constitutes a final
decision under Utah Code Annotated sections 10-9a-801(2)(a) and 10-9a-801(4). A
person adversely affected by a final decision of the Hearing Officer shall file
a petition for review with the District Court within thirty (30) days after the
date of the decision. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3C-9: EX PARTE COMMUNICATIONS; PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any individual, including the party bringing the
appeal or requesting a variance, to discuss substantive matters pertaining to a
pending appeal or variance with the Hearing Officer. Violation of this section
shall be a Class C misdemeanor. The requirements of this section shall not
apply to proceedings and communications during a properly scheduled public
meeting or hearing for consideration of the appeal or variance, communications
where all parties are present and given an opportunity to speak, or to a
discussion limited to procedural matters not related to the substance of the
proceedings, such as the date, time or place of the hearing. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
10-3C-10: GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY:
The Hearing Officer shall be considered an appointed official and shall be
entitled to all the protections of the Utah Governmental Immunity Act. (Ord.
17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3C-11: COMPENSATION; CONTRACT:
Terms for compensation and reimbursement shall be memorialized by written
contract with the Administrative Hearing Officer. The written contract required
by this section shall be approved and adopted by the Town Council. (Ord. 17-02,
3-16-2017)
10-3C-12: DISTRICT COURT REVIEW OF APPEAL AUTHORITY DECISIONS:
Any person adversely affected by any decision of the Hearing Officer may
petition the District Court for a review of the decision.
   A.   Administrative Remedies Exhausted: No person may file a petition for
review of the Hearing Officer's decision unless he has first exhausted his
administrative remedies.
   B.   Limited Allegation: The petition to the District Court may allege only
that the Hearing Officer's decision was arbitrary, capricious or illegal.
   C.   Time Limit For Filing: The petition shall be filed within thirty (30)
days after the Hearing Officer's decision. However, the time for filing an
appeal to the District Court is stayed by the filing of a request for
arbitration of a constitutional taking issue with the Utah property rights
ombudsman under Utah Code Annotated section 13-43-204; in which event, a
petition shall be filed within thirty (30) days after completion of proceedings
before the ombudsman.
   D.   Transmit Record Of Proceedings; Transcripts: The Hearing Officer shall
transmit to the District Court the record of its proceedings, including a
transcript of all proceedings, all documentary evidence received at the
hearing, and a copy of the Hearing Officer's rulings, findings and orders. The
transcript shall be made by a person authorized to make certified transcripts
of recorded proceedings, and shall bear a certification that the transcript is
a true and correct copy of the proceedings before the Hearing Officer.
      1.   If a transcript is made of the proceedings before the Hearing
Officer, the District Court's review is limited to the record. The District
Court shall affirm the decision of the Hearing Officer if the decision is
supported by substantial evidence in the record and is not arbitrary,
capricious or illegal.
      2.   If there is no record of the proceedings before the Hearing Officer,
the appeal to the District Court shall be a de novo appeal.
   E.   Scope Of Review By District Court: The District Court may hear only
those issues and theories for relief that are raised in the proceedings before
the Hearing Officer.
   F.   Stay Of Decision: The filing of a petition with the district does not
stay the decision of the Hearing Officer unless the Hearing Officer determines,
in writing, that a stay is in the best interests of the Town or that
enforcement of the ruling would cause imminent peril to life or property. This
section shall not preclude a party from seeking a stay from the District Court.
   G.   Court Decision: The Court shall affirm the decision of the Hearing
Officer if the decision is supported by substantial evidence in the record and
is not arbitrary, capricious or illegal. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3C-13: MATRIX:
The Mayor or Town Clerk may, with the advice and consent of the Planning
Commission and the Town Council, develop a graphical matrix to show the powers
and duties of each Land Use Authority within the Town, the Appeal Authority for
decisions of the Land Use Authority, and the time for appeal of any decision.
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
ARTICLE D. TOWN ENGINEER
SECTION:
10-3D-1: Created; Appointment
10-3D-2: Powers And Duties
10-3D-1: CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the Office of Town Engineer. The Mayor, with the advice
and consent of the Town Council, may appoint a person to act as Town Engineer.
Said Town Engineer is hereby charged with the administration and enforcement of
this title and such other duties as are set forth section
10-3D-2 of this article. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-3D-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Town Engineer to:
   A.   Review all applications for building permits and certificates of zoning
compliance.
   B.   Refuse to issue any permit unless the plans of and for the proposed
erection, construction or use fully conform to all regulations in effect within
the Town.
   C.   Enforce the provisions of the zoning regulations and, wherever
violations occur, to consult with the Town Attorney, to post or issue
citations, to prepare exhibits, testimony and other data which may be needed in
such enforcement.
   D.   Render administrative decisions on those certain routine and
uncontested matters as are delegated to him by the Town Council or Appeal
Authority and pursuant to established guidelines relating thereto. (Ord. 17-02,
3-16-2017)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-4-1: Enforcement Officials
10-4-2: Zoning Clearance Required
10-4-3: Buildings To Be On Zoning Lot
10-4-4: Building Permit To Comply With Title
10-4-5: Construction And Use To Comply With Permit
10-4-6: License To Comply With Title
10-4-7: Responsibility For Violation
10-4-8: Utility Installation Unlawful Without Building Permit
10-4-9: Recovery Of Damages; Nonliability Of Town
10-4-10: Uses Prohibited In Zone Unless Expressly Permitted
10-4-11: Status Of Preexisting Illegal Use
10-4-12: Uses On Leased Land To Comply With Title
10-4-13: Review Fees
10-4-14: Conflicting Provisions
10-4-15: Penalty
10-4-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
The Town Engineer or Planning Commission shall be charged with the
administration and enforcement of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-4-2: ZONING CLEARANCE REQUIRED:
No building permit shall be issued for construction within the Town until the
application therefor has been approved by the Town Engineer or Planning
Commission. The Town Engineer or Planning Commission shall not give such
approval until he/she is satisfied that the proposed construction and
subsequent use of the building proposed to be constructed will comply with the
requirements of the zone in which the building will be situated. (Ord. 17-02,
3-16-2017)
10-4-3: BUILDINGS TO BE ON ZONING LOT:
No building permit authorizing the use of land or the construction or
alteration or moving of a building structure on a lot shall be issued unless
the parcel of land upon which the use is to be conducted or the building
constructed, altered or moved shall qualify as a zoning lot, as defined in
section
10-2-1 of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-4-4: BUILDING PERMIT TO COMPLY WITH TITLE:
From the effective date hereof, no permit shall be granted for the construction
or alteration of any building or structure, or for the moving of a building or
structure onto a lot, or for the change of use of any land, building or
structure, if such construction, alteration, moving or change of use would be a
violation of any of the provisions of this title, nor shall any sewer or water
service line or electric utilities be installed to serve the premises if such
use would be a violation of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-4-5: CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO COMPLY WITH PERMIT:
Permits issued on the basis of plans and specifications approved by the Town
Engineer authorize only the use, arrangements and construction set forth in
such approved applications. Any use, arrangements or construction at variance
with that authorized shall be deemed to be a violation of this title. (Ord. 17-
02, 3-16-2017)
10-4-6: LICENSE TO COMPLY WITH TITLE:
No business or similar permit shall be issued which would not be in conformance
with the provisions of this title. Any permit so issued shall be null and void.
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-4-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATION:
It shall be the responsibility of the owner and any and all builders,
contractors, subcontractors, real estate agents and any other person having to
do with the establishment of any use of land, or the erecting, altering or
relocation of any building, to make sure that a proper permit has been obtained
before work is begun. Any person doing any work on a project for which a proper
permit has not been obtained shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-4-8: UTILITY INSTALLATION UNLAWFUL WITHOUT BUILDING PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to install or allow to
be installed, any sewer or water service lines, or any gas, telephone or
electric utility connection to serve the premises before a building permit has
been properly approved and issued by the Town Engineer or Planning Commission,
and any person who shall install or authorize the installation of any such line
or connection shall be in violation of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-4-9: RECOVERY OF DAMAGES; NONLIABILITY OF TOWN:
Any person purchasing a lot or parcel of land who may be injured as the
consequences of a denial of a building permit, which purchase was made pursuant
to inaccurate, incorrect, untrue or fraudulent information on the part of the
seller or his agent, may recover damages from the seller or his agent by civil
action. However, the Town shall not be civilly liable for any damages that may
occur as a consequence of the denial of a building permit based upon such
information. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-4-10: USES PROHIBITED IN ZONE UNLESS EXPRESSLY PERMITTED:
Uses of land which are not expressly permitted within a zone are hereby
declared to be expressly prohibited therein, except as may be permitted by
action of the Planning Commission or Town Council, pursuant to express
authority given under the terms of this title. Neither the Planning Commission,
Appeal Authority, nor the Town Engineer shall permit a use within a zone which
is not expressly permitted by the terms of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-4-11: STATUS OF PREEXISTING ILLEGAL USE:
Any building or use of land or any construction thereon, or any subdivision of
land, which was not authorized by or under the preexisting zoning or
subdivision regulations, as amended, or which is illegal under such
regulations, shall remain unauthorized and illegal unless expressly authorized
or permitted in the provisions of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-4-12: USES ON LEASED LAND TO COMPLY WITH TITLE:
Any person who may obtain State or Federal properties by purchase, lease or
other arrangements must utilize such properties in accordance with the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-4-13: REVIEW FEES:
All costs for the processing of applications for subdivision, large scale
developments, zone changes, Appeal Authority rulings and similar actions
required under the terms of this title shall be born by the applicant. The Town
Council may, by resolution, establish fees for the processing of such
applications and the administration of this title, and provide for the
assessment and collection thereof. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-4-14: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Whenever the provisions of this title conflict with the provisions of any other
ordinance, resolution or part thereof, the more stringent shall prevail. (Ord.
17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-4-15: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation, whether as principal, agent, employee
or otherwise, who shall erect, construct, reconstruct, alter or move a
structure which is subject to the provisions of this title without first
complying with the relevant provisions and, when applicable, obtaining a
building permit therefor; or shall change the use of any land, or perform any
act in violation of any provision of this title, or any subsequent amendment
thereto, shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, for each such offense.
   B.   Each person, firm or corporation found guilty of violation shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day during which any violation of
any provision of this title is committed, continued or permitted.
   C.   Each person, firm or corporation who transfers or sells land in a
subdivision without preparing and having approved a plat thereof in accordance
with chapter 14 of this title shall be deemed guilty of a violation for each
lot transferred or sold, and the description by metes and bounds in the
instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or
transferring shall not exempt such transaction from such violation. (Ord. 17-
02, 3-16-2017)
CHAPTER 5
ZONES ESTABLISHED
SECTION:
10-5-1: Zones Established
10-5-2: Location Of Zones; Adoption Of Zone Map
10-5-3: Rules For Determining Zone Boundaries
10-5-4: Declaration Regarding Regulations Within Zones
10-5-5: Split Zoning – Parcels In Two Zoning Districts
10-5-1: ZONES ESTABLISHED:
In order to carry out the purpose of this title, the Town is hereby divided
into zones as follows:
 
A-4 Agricultural 4 Acre Zone (not less than 4 acres)
A-2 Agricultural 2 Acre Zone (not less than 2 acres)
A-1 Agricultural 1 Acre Zone (not less than 1 acre)
R   Residential Zone (not less than 12,000 square feet)
R-4 Multiple Residential Zone
R-C Residential-Commercial Zone
LI  Light Industrial Zone
 
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-5-2: LOCATION OF ZONES; ADOPTION OF ZONE MAP:
The location and boundaries of each zone shall be as set forth on the official
zone map of the Town, as revised, which map is appended hereto and by this
reference included as a part of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-5-3: RULES FOR DETERMINING ZONE BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of zones, as shown on
the zone map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Where the indicated boundaries of the zone map are approximately
streets or land survey lines, said street or land survey lines shall be
constructed to be the zone boundaries.
   B.   Where the indicated boundaries are approximately canals, natural
streams or similar watercourses, the center of said canal, natural stream or
watercourse shall be constructed to be the zone boundary line.
   C.   In the absence of any street, land survey, canal, natural stream or
watercourse as forming the boundaries of any zone, the scale or measurement
shown on the map shall be used to determine the zone boundary line.
   D.   Where other uncertainty exists, the Appeal Authority shall interpret
the map. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-5-4: DECLARATION REGARDING REGULATIONS WITHIN ZONES:
The specific regulations and restrictions applicable within each zone and
governing: a) the location and use of land, buildings and other structures for
residential, commercial, industrial or other purposes; b) the size of yards,
courts and other open spaces; c) the height, number of stories and size of
buildings and other structures; d) the density of population; e) the percentage
of a lot that may be occupied; and f) such other elements of development as
authorized by law or court action, shall be as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 17-
02, 3-16-2017)
10-5-5: SPLIT ZONING - PARCELS IN TWO ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   An amendment to the zoning map shall not apply more than one (1) zoning
district designation to the same lot or parcel of land.
   B.   Where a land use application is submitted for a lot or parcel, and that
lot or parcel contains two (2) or more zoning designations, the zoning district
designation governing the largest portion, measured in square-feet, shall apply
to the entire lot or parcel, and all uses allowed in that zoning district shall
be deemed conforming on the entire lot or parcel. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-14-2021)
CHAPTER 6
AGRICULTURAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. A-4 AGRICULTURAL ZONE (NOT LESS THAN 4 ACRES)
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Legislative Intent
10-6A-2: Permitted Uses
10-6A-3: Conditional Uses
10-6A-4: Area And Width Requirements
10-6A-5: Access Requirements
10-6A-6: Location Requirements
10-6A-7: Height Of Buildings
10-6A-8: Utility Requirements
10-6A-9: Dwelling Requirements
10-6A-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
   A.   The objective in establishing the A-4 Agricultural Zone is to provide a
location within the community devoted primarily to the raising of livestock
and/or the growing of crops, and to preserve and protect the continued use of
the property for agricultural purposes. The zone includes those areas of the
Town where the combination of soil quality, size of land parcel, availability
of water, historic use of land and lack of urban development activity make the
land most suited to agricultural and livestock purposes.
   B.   Representative of the uses within the A-4 Zone are livestock and
grazing. Uses which are inconsistent with and tend to mitigate against the
continued use of the land for agriculture and livestock raising are excluded
from the zone. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted upon
compliance with the applicable requirements of this title:
Accessory sign pertaining to the sale of the real property or produce raised on
the premises; provided, that such sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square
feet.
Corrals and pens for the enclosure of livestock. Also, barns, stables, coops,
sheds, hutches or similar buildings used for the housing or confinement of
livestock and fowl; provided, that any such corral or pen, or any building used
for the housing of livestock or fowl, shall be located not closer than seventy
five feet (75') to an existing dwelling or other occupied structure located on
an adjacent lot, or forty feet (40') to such dwelling or structure on the same
lot.
Customary residential accessory structures.
Farm equipment and the facilities incidental to the operation of the farm unit
(i.e., grain, grain storage, silos, mills).
Gardens, orchards and field crops.
Grazing of livestock.
Home occupations, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-17 of this title.
Kennels, when included as part of a designated farm unit.
One-family dwellings, conventional construction.
One-family dwellings, manufactured housing, subject to the provision of section
10-10-21 of this title.
Raising, care and keeping of livestock and fowl in an amount not exceeding
three (3) animal units per acre of lot area.
Roping and riding arena.
Special use permit allowing the raising of porcine (pigs) on parcels of land
within the Town limits of not less than two (2) agricultural zoned acres for
seasonal educational or food projects between March 1 through October 31 each
year. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-15, 12-12-2019)
10-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land may be permitted upon
compliance with the requirements of this title and subject to the prior
approval of the designated review agency:
Churches, with a minimum of five (5) acres.
Residential facility for disabled persons, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-23 of this title.
Schools, with a minimum of five (5) acres. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017; amd. 2017
Code; Ord. 2019-15, 12-12-2019)
10-6A-4: AREA AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum lot area and width requirements for a zoning lot shall be as
follows:
 
Use                 Minimum Area Minimum Width
                    (Acres)      (Feet)
One-family dwelling 4            150
Churches            5            200
Schools             5            200
 
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6A-5: ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
Each designated farm unit shall:
   A.   Front upon and have direct access to a public street for a distance of
not less than two hundred feet (200'); or
   B.   Have direct and uninterruptible access to a public street over a deeded
private travel easement. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6A-6: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Main Buildings: All dwellings and other main buildings and structures
shall be set back in accordance with the following:
      1.   Front Setback: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back not less than twenty feet (20') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Setbacks:
         a.   Interior lots: All dwellings and other attached main buildings,
including carports, garages or similar structures, shall be set back not less
than eight feet (8') from either side lot line and the combined total distance
of the two (2) side setbacks shall be not less than twenty feet (20').
         b.   Corner lots; side abutting street: All dwellings and other main
buildings shall be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from the side lot
which abuts on a street.
      3.   Rear Setback; Interior Lots: All dwellings shall be set back not
less than twenty feet (20') from the rear lot line.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings shall be located in
accordance with the following:
      1.   Setback From Main Building; Front Setback: Accessory buildings shall
be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from front property line, and not
less than eight feet (8') from the closest side wall or rear wall of the main
building. Accessory buildings which are located eight feet (8') or closer to a
main building shall be considered as part of the main building. Where no main
building exists on a lot, a detached accessory building shall be set back not
less than twenty feet (20') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Setbacks:
         a.   Interior lots: Detached accessory buildings shall be set back not
less than three feet (3') from the drip line on the side property line.
         b.   Side setback; corner lot, side abutting street: Accessory
building shall be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from the side lot
line which abuts on a street.
      3.   Rear Setback: The rear setback for an accessory building shall not
be less than three feet (3') from the drip line. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6A-7: HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   Maximum: The maximum height of any dwelling or other building used for
human occupancy shall be thirty feet (30') or two and one-half (21/2) stories,
whichever is higher.
   B.   Minimum: The minimum height of a building used as a dwelling shall not
be less than eight feet (8'), except when approved as an earth shelter home
project as provided in section
10-10-20 of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6A-8: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
All dwellings and other structures used for human occupancy shall be served by
the Town water and sewer system in accordance with the provisions of section
10-10-22 of this title, except that requirements for connection to one (1) or
more of above mentioned systems may be waived by the Town Council upon finding
that: a) connection to one (1) or more of the above utility systems is not
reasonably practicable; and b) an alternative method of providing the service
to the premises has been secured (i.e., approved domestic well right, septic
tank approved by health agency). (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6A-9: DWELLING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Area: The ground floor of any dwelling shall contain not less
than nine hundred fifty (950) square feet of living area.
   B.   Minimum Dimension: The minimum width or length dimension of any
dwelling as measured from the outside wall shall be not less than twenty four
feet (24'). Nonliving spaces, such as garages, porches and sheds, shall not be
included in determining compliance with this requirement. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
ARTICLE B. A-2 AGRICULTURAL ZONE (NOT LESS THAN 2 ACRES)
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Legislative Intent
10-6B-2: Permitted Uses
10-6B-3: Conditional Uses
10-6B-4: Area And Width Requirements
10-6B-5: Access Requirements
10-6B-6: Location Requirements
10-6B-7: Height Of Buildings
10-6B-8: Utility Requirements
10-6B-9: Dwelling Requirements
10-6B-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
   A.   The objective in establishing the A-2 Agricultural Zone is to provide a
location within the Town for a residential and agricultural environment where
the residents may engage in significant agricultural pursuits, including the
keeping of livestock. A minimum of vehicular traffic and quiet residential
conditions favorable to family living and the rearing of children shall also be
characteristic of this zone.
   B.   Representative of the uses within the A-2 Agricultural Zone are one-
family dwellings, the keeping of domestic livestock, parks, playgrounds,
churches and other community facilities in harmony with the characteristics of
the zone.
   C.   Residents and developers within the zone should bear in mind that the
proximity of animals to dwellings is an integral part of the zone and should
occupy the residences in recognition thereof.
   D.   The specific regulations necessary for the accomplishment of the intent
of the zone are hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted upon
compliance with the applicable requirements of this title:
Churches.
Corrals and pens for the enclosure of livestock. Also, barns, stables, coops,
sheds, hutches or similar buildings used for the housing or confinement of
livestock and fowl; provided, that any such corral or pen, or any building used
for the housing of livestock or fowl, shall be located not closer than seventy
five feet (75') to an existing dwelling or other occupied structure located on
an adjacent lot, or forty feet (40') to such dwelling or structure on the same
lot.
Customary residential accessory structures.
Fences, walls and hedges, subject to the requirements of section
10-10-13 of this title.
Foster care home containing not more than three (3) non- related foster care
occupants.
Gardens, orchards and field crops.
Home occupations, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-17 of this title.
Household pets.
Minor utility transmission projects.
One-family dwellings, conventional construction.
One-family dwellings, manufactured housing, subject to the provision of section
10-10-21 of this title.
Public agency parks and playgrounds.
Raising, care and keeping of livestock and fowl in an amount not exceeding
three (3) animal units per acre of lot area.
Special use permit allowing the raising of porcine (pigs) on parcels of land
within the Town limits of not less than two (2) agricultural zoned acres for
seasonal educational or food projects between March 1 through October 31 each
year.
Temporary signs, not exceeding twelve (12) square feet, advertising the sale of
the premises. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-15, 12-12-2019)
10-6B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted upon
compliance with the requirements set forth in this title and after approval has
been given by the designated reviewing agencies (approval of other agencies or
levels of government may be required):
Earth shelter home projects, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-20 of this title and the prior approval of a site plan in accordance with
the provisions of section
10-10-19 of this title.
Public schools, buildings and grounds, not including storage yards, subject to
the conditions of section
10-10-18 of this title.
Residential facility for disabled persons, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-23 of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-15, 12-12-2019)
10-6B-4: AREA AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum area and width requirements of a zoning lot shall be as follows:
 
Use                 Minimum Area Minimum Width
                    (Acres)      (Feet)
One-family dwelling 2            150
Churches            5            200
Schools             5            200
 
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6B-5: ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
Each lot shall abut upon and have direct access to a Town street. The distance
of said abutting side shall be not less than the minimum width requirement of
the zone, except that the length of said abutting side may be reduced to not
less than seventy feet (70') when the lot fronts upon a cul-de-sac or curve in
a designated Town street and the lot lines radiate in such a manner that the
width of the first lot will meet or exceed the minimum width requirements of
the zone at a distance of eighty feet (80') from the setback line as measured
along the side lot line. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6B-6: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Main Buildings: All dwellings and other main buildings and structures
shall be set back in accordance with the following:
      1.   Front Setback: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back twenty feet (20') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Setback:
         a.   Interior lots: All dwellings and other attached main buildings,
including carports, garages or similar structures, shall be set back not less
than eight feet (8') from either side lot line and the combined total distance
of the two (2) side setbacks shall not be less than twenty feet (20').
         b.   Corner lots; side abutting street: All dwellings and other main
buildings shall be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from the side lot
which abuts on a street.
      3.   Rear Setback; Interior Lots: All dwellings shall be set back not
less than twenty feet (20') from the rear lot line.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings shall be located in
accordance with the following:
      1.   Setback From Main Building; Front Setback: Accessory buildings shall
be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from front property line, and not
less than eight feet (8') from the closest side wall or rear wall of the main
building. Accessory buildings which are located eight feet (8') or closer to a
main building shall be considered as part of the main building. Where no main
building exists on a lot, a detached accessory building shall be set back not
less than twenty feet (20') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Setbacks:
         a.   Interior lots: Detached accessory buildings shall be set back not
less than three feet (3') from the drip line on the side property line.
         b.   Side setback; corner lot, side abutting street: Accessory
buildings shall be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from the side lot
line which abuts on a street.
      3.   Rear Setback: The rear setback for an accessory building shall not
be less than three feet (3') from the drip line. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6B-7: HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   Maximum: The maximum height of any building shall be thirty feet (30')
or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is higher. Where the ground is
uneven in height, the average elevation thereof shall apply. Chimneys,
flagpoles, television antennas, church towers and similar ancillary structures
not used for human occupancy shall be excluded in determining height; provided,
that no such ancillary structure shall extend to a height in excess of fifteen
feet (15') above the building, except when approved by the Planning Commission
as set forth under section
10-10-19 of this title.
   B.   Minimum: The minimum height of a building used as a dwelling shall be
not less than eight feet (8'), except when approved as an earth shelter home
project as provided in section
10-10-20 of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6B-8: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
All dwellings and other structures used for human occupancy shall be served by
the Town water and sewer system in accordance with the provisions of section
10-10-22 of this title, except that the requirements for connections to one (1)
or more of the above mentioned systems may be waived by the Town Council upon
finding that: a) connection to one (1) or more of the above utility systems is
not reasonably practicable; and b) an alternative method of providing the
service to the premises has been provided for (i.e., approved domestic well
right, septic tank approval by health agency). (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6B-9: DWELLING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Area: The ground floor of any one-family dwelling shall contain
not less than nine hundred fifty (950) square feet of living area.
   B.   Minimum Dimension: The minimum width or length dimension of any
dwelling as measured from the outside wall shall be not less than twenty four
feet (24'). Nonliving spaces, such as garages, porches and sheds, shall not be
included in determining compliance with this requirement. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
ARTICLE C. A-1 AGRICULTURAL ZONE (NOT LESS THAN 1 ACRE)
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Legislative Intent
10-6C-2: Permitted Uses
10-6C-3: Conditional Uses
10-6C-4: Area And Width Requirements
10-6C-5: Access Requirements
10-6C-6: Location Requirements
10-6C-7: Height Of Buildings
10-6C-8: Utility Requirements
10-6C-9: Dwelling Requirements
10-6C-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
   A.   The objective in establishing the A-1 Agricultural Zone is to provide a
location within the Town for a residential and agricultural environment where
the residents may engage in significant agricultural pursuits, including the
keeping of livestock. A minimum of vehicular traffic and quiet residential
conditions favorable to family living and the rearing of children shall also be
characteristic of this zone.
   B.   Representative of the uses within the A-1 Agricultural Zone are one-
family dwellings, the keeping of domestic livestock, parks, playgrounds,
churches and other community facilities in harmony with the characteristics of
the zone.
   C.   Residents and developers within the zone should bear in mind that the
proximity of animals to dwellings is an integral part of the zone and should
occupy the residences in recognition thereof.
   D.   The specific regulations necessary for the accomplishment of the intent
of the zone are hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6C-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted upon
compliance with the applicable requirements of this title:
Churches.
Corrals and pens for the enclosure of livestock. Also, barns, stables, coops,
sheds, hutches or similar buildings used for the housing or confinement of
livestock and fowl; provided, that any such corral or pen, or any building used
for the housing of livestock or fowl, shall be located not closer than seventy
five feet (75') to an existing dwelling or other occupied structure located on
an adjacent lot, or forty feet (40') to such dwelling or structure on the same
lot.
Customary residential accessory structures.
Fences, walls and hedges, subject to the requirements of section
10-10-13 of this title.
Foster care home containing not more than three (3) non- related foster care
occupants.
Gardens, orchards and field crops.
Home occupations, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-17 of this title.
Household pets.
Minor utility transmission projects.
One-family dwellings, conventional construction.
One-family dwellings, manufactured housing, subject to the provision of section
10-10-21 of this title.
Public agency parks and playgrounds.
Raising, care and keeping of livestock and fowl in an amount not exceeding
three (3) animal units per acre of lot area.
Temporary signs, not exceeding twelve (12) square feet, advertising the sale of
the premises. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-15, 12-12-2019)
10-6C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted upon
compliance with the requirements set forth in this title and after approval has
been given by the designated reviewing agencies (approval of other agencies or
levels of government may be required):
Earth shelter home projects, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-20 of this title and the prior approval of a site plan in accordance with
the provisions of section
10-10-19 of this title.
Public schools, buildings and grounds, not including storage yards, subject to
the conditions of section
10-10-18 of this title.
Residential facility for disabled persons, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-23 of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-15, 12-12-2019)
10-6C-4: AREA AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum area and width requirements of a zoning lot shall be as follows:
 
Use                 Minimum Area Minimum Width
                    (Acres)      (Feet)
One-family dwelling 1            130
Churches            5            200
Schools             5            200
 
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6C-5: ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
Each lot shall abut upon and have direct access to a Town street. The distance
of said abutting side shall be not less than the minimum width requirement of
the zone, except that the length of said abutting side may be reduced to not
less than seventy feet (70') when the lot fronts upon a cul-de-sac or curve in
a designated Town street and the lot lines radiate in such a manner that the
width of the first lot will meet or exceed the minimum width requirements of
the zone at a distance of eighty feet (80') from the setback line as measured
along the side lot line. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6C-6: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Main Buildings: All dwellings and other main buildings and structures
shall be set back in accordance with the following:
      1.   Front Setback: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back twenty feet (20') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Setback:
         a.   Interior lots: All dwellings and other attached main buildings,
including carports, garages or similar structures, shall be set back not less
than eight feet (8') from either side lot line and the combined total distance
of the two (2) side setbacks shall not be less than twenty feet (20').
         b.   Corner lots; side abutting street: All dwellings and other main
buildings shall be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from the side lot
which abuts on a street.
      3.   Rear Setback; Interior Lots: All dwellings shall be set back not
less than twenty feet (20') from the rear lot line.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings shall be located in
accordance with the following:
      1.   Setback From Main Building; Front Setback: Accessory buildings shall
be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from front property line, and not
less than eight feet (8') from the closest side wall or rear wall of the main
building. Accessory buildings which are located eight feet (8') or closer to a
main building shall be considered as part of the main building. Where no main
building exists on a lot, a detached accessory building shall be set back not
less than twenty feet (20') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Setbacks:
         a.   Interior lots: Detached accessory buildings shall be set back not
less than three feet (3') from the drip line on the side property line.
         b.   Side setback; corner lot, side abutting street: Accessory
buildings shall be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from the side lot
line which abuts on a street.
      3.   Rear Setback: The rear setback for an accessory building shall not
be less than three feet (3') from the drip line. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6C-7: HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   Maximum: The maximum height of any building shall be thirty feet (30')
or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is higher. Where the ground is
uneven in height, the average elevation thereof shall apply. Chimneys,
flagpoles, television antennas, church towers and similar ancillary structures
not used for human occupancy shall be excluded in determining height; provided,
that no such ancillary structure shall extend to a height in excess of fifteen
feet (15') above the building, except when approved by the Planning Commission
as set forth under section
10-10-19 of this title.
   B.   Minimum: The minimum height of a building used as a dwelling shall be
not less than eight feet (8'), except when approved as an earth shelter home
project as provided in section
10-10-20 of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6C-8: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
All dwellings and other structures used for human occupancy shall be served by
the Town water and sewer system in accordance with the provisions of section
10-10-22 of this title, except that the requirements for connections to one (1)
or more of the above mentioned systems may be waived by the Town Council upon
finding that: a) connection to one (1) or more of the above utility systems is
not reasonably practicable; and b) an alternative method of providing the
service to the premises has been provided for (i.e., approved domestic well
right, septic tank approval by health agency). (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-6C-9: DWELLING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Area: The ground floor of any one-family dwelling shall contain
not less than nine hundred fifty (950) square feet of living area.
   B.   Minimum Dimension: The minimum width or length dimension of any
dwelling as measured from the outside wall shall be not less than twenty four
feet (24'). Nonliving spaces, such as garages, porches and sheds, shall not be
included in determining compliance with this requirement. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. R RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Legislative History And Intent
10-7A-2: Permitted Uses
10-7A-3: Conditional Uses
10-7A-4: Area, Width And Density Requirements
10-7A-5: Access Requirements
10-7A-6: Location Requirements
10-7A-7: Height Of Buildings
10-7A-8: Utility Requirements
10-7A-9: Dwelling Requirements
10-7A-1: LEGISLATIVE HISTORY AND INTENT:
   A.   The R Residential Zone covers the portion of the Town which is
primarily suited for residential development represented by a commingling of
one-family and two-family dwellings, limited agricultural activities and parks,
playgrounds, schools, churches and other community facilities designed to serve
the residents of the Town. The zone is characterized by lots, multiple lot
building parcels, uncrowded buildings and quiet residential conditions
favorable to the rearing of children. Attractive lawns, shrubs, trees and other
landscape features, including water-wise landscape techniques, are
characteristic of this zone.
   B.   When initially platted in the early 1900s, lots in the Town were
generally forty feet (40') wide and one hundred feet (100') deep. In the years
that have followed, property owners have combined lots to develop larger
parcels on which modern homes can be built. Beginning in approximately 1994,
the Town ordinances required building parcels to be composed of at least two
(2) contiguous lots, totaling approximately eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
There are many parcels of property in this zone that are composed of two (2)
lots. Beginning in 2006, Town ordinances were amended to require that building
parcels be composed of three (3) or more lots, totaling approximately twelve
thousand (12,000) square feet. The Town has generally recognized that smaller
two (2) lot parcels utilized before 2006 were approved, and had become lawful
non-conforming uses. The Town has generally tried to make accommodations for
parcels of fewer than three (3) contiguous lots by approving single-family
homes subject to conditions.
   C.   Owners and developers of property within this zone should bear in mind
that for any parcel consisting of fewer than three (3) contiguous lots, strict
conditions will be imposed to ensure compliance with Town ordinances and
regulations before any approval will be granted.
   D.   The specific regulations necessary for the accomplishment of the intent
of the zone are hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-7A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted upon
compliance with the applicable requirements of this title:
Churches.
Customary residential accessory structures, such as garages.
Fences, walls and hedges, subject to the requirements of section
10-10-13 of this title.
Gardens, orchards and field crops.
Home occupations, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-17 of this title.
Household pets, excluding kennels.
Minor utility transmission projects.
Public agency parks and playgrounds.
Single-family and two-family dwellings, conventional construction.
Single-family and two-family dwellings, manufactured housing, subject to the
provisions of section
10-10-21 of this title, and subject to Federal (HUD) housing regulations.
Temporary signs advertising the sale of the premises not exceeding twelve (12)
square feet. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-15, 12-12-2019)
10-7A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses of land shall be allowed in the R Zone as a conditional use
upon compliance with the reasonable requirements of the Planning Commission, as
well as the requirements set forth in this title, and otherwise as provided by
Town ordinances:
Earth shelter home projects, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-20 of this title and the prior approval of a site plan in accordance with
the provisions of section
10-10-19 of this title.
Establishments and uses determined by the Town to be similar and compatible
with the permitted uses described in this article.
Household pets. A fourth dog may be approved as a conditional use.
Multi-family dwellings, including rental or condominium housing with three (3)
or four (4) units.
Planned unit development and residential condominium projects, subject to the
applicable provisions of chapter 13 of this title.
Public schools, buildings and grounds, not including storage yards, subject to
the conditions of section
10-10-18 of this title.
Raising, care and keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl for family
food or recreation, subject to the following:
   A.   Each lot or parcel upon which livestock or fowl are to be kept shall
contain a designated "livestock management area", as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title.
   B.   The total number of animals or fowl kept on any lot shall not exceed
one (1) animal unit for each four thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet of
livestock management area; provided, that no bovine, equine or similar large
animal shall be kept on any lot or parcel where the livestock management area
is less than thirteen thousand (13,000) square feet.
   C.   On any lot which contains a dwelling, the livestock management area
shall not include territory required to meet the area or setback requirements
for an appurtenant dwelling (i.e., the first 12,000 square feet for a one-
family dwelling).
   D.   All corrals and pens for the enclosure of livestock, and all barns,
stables, coops, sheds, hutches or similar buildings used for the housing or
confinement of livestock or fowl shall be located no closer than seventy five
feet (75') to an existing dwelling or other occupied structure located on an
adjacent lot, or forty feet (40') to such dwelling or structure on the same
lot.
   E.   The parcel, or any portion thereof, proposed to be used for livestock
raising purposes shall be first approved by the Planning Commission or the Town
Engineer as a qualified livestock management area.
   F.   For animals other than bovine or equine, partial animal units shall be
permitted, to be prorated in accordance with the definitions found at section
10-2-1 of this title, and in accordance with the number of square feet within
the livestock management area.
Residential facility for disabled persons, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-23 of this title, and subject to other State and Federal regulations.
Single-family homes on parcels of less than three (3) platted and contiguous
Town lots. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-15, 12-12-2019)
10-7A-4: AREA, WIDTH AND DENSITY REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum area and width requirements of a zoning lot shall be as follows:
 
Use                    Minimum Area       Minimum Width
                                          (Feet)
One-family dwellings   12,000 square feet 120
Two-family dwellings   16,000 square feet 160
Three-family dwellings 18,000 square feet 200
Four-family dwellings  20,000 square feet 240
Churches               5 acres            200
Schools                5 acres            200
 
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-7A-5: ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
Each lot shall abut upon and have direct access to a Town street. The distance
of said abutting side shall be not less than the minimum width requirement of
the zone, except that the length of said abutting side may be reduced to not
less than sixty feet (60') when the lot fronts upon a cul-de-sac or curve in a
designated Town street and the lot lines radiate in such a manner that the
width of the lot will meet or exceed the minimum width requirements of the zone
at a distance of forty feet (40') from the front setback line as measured along
the side lot line. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-7A-6: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Main Buildings: All dwellings and other main buildings and structures
shall be set back in accordance with the following:
      1.   Front Setback: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back twenty feet (20') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Setbacks:
         a.   Interior lots: All dwellings and other attached main buildings,
including carports, garages or similar structures, shall be set back not less
than eight feet (8') from either side lot line and the combined total distance
of the two (2) side setbacks shall not be less than twenty feet (20').
         b.   Corner lots; side abutting street: All dwellings and other main
buildings shall be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from the side lot
which abuts on a street.
      3.   Rear Setback; Interior Lots: All dwellings shall be set back not
less than twenty feet (20') from the rear lot line.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings shall be located in
accordance with the following:
      1.   Setback From Main Building; Front Setback: Accessory buildings shall
be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from front property line, and not
less than eight feet (8') from the closest side wall or rear wall of the main
building. Accessory buildings which are located eight feet (8') or closer to a
main building shall be considered as part of the main building. Where no main
building exists on a lot, a detached accessory building shall be set back not
less than twenty feet (20') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Setbacks:
         a.   Interior lots: Detached accessory buildings shall be set back not
less than three feet (3') from the drip line on the side property line.
         b.   Side setback; corner lot, side abutting street: Accessory
buildings shall be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from the side lot
line which abuts on a street.
      3.   Rear Setback: The rear setback for an accessory building shall not
be less than three feet (3') from the drip line. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-7A-7: HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   Maximum: The maximum height of any building shall be thirty feet (30')
or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is higher. Where the ground is
uneven in height, the average elevation thereof shall apply. Chimneys, flag
poles, television antennas and similar ancillary structures not used for human
occupancy shall be excluded in determining height; provided, that no such
ancillary structure shall extend to a height in excess of fifteen feet (15')
above the building except when approved by the Planning Commission.
   B.   Minimum: The minimum height of a building used as a dwelling shall not
be less than eight feet (8'), except when approved as an earth shelter home
project as provided in section
10-10-20 of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-7A-8: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
All dwellings and other structures to be used for human occupancy shall be
served by the Town water and sewer systems in accordance with the provisions of
section
10-10-22 of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-7A-9: DWELLING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area Dwellings: The ground floor of any one-family dwelling shall
contain not less than nine hundred fifty (950) square feet of living area. The
ground floor area of any two-family dwelling shall contain not less than one
thousand nine hundred (1,900) square feet, and each unit shall contain not less
than nine hundred fifty (950) square feet of living area.
   B.   Minimum Dimension: The minimum width or length dimension of any
dwelling as measured from the outside wall shall be not less than twenty four
feet (24'). Nonliving spaces, such as garages, porches and sheds, shall not be
included in determining compliance with this requirement. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
ARTICLE B. R-4 MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Legislative Intent
10-7B-2: Permitted Uses
10-7B-3: Conditional Uses
10-7B-4: Area And Width Requirements
10-7B-5: Access Requirements
10-7B-6: Location Requirements
10-7B-7: Height Of Buildings
10-7B-8: Utility Requirements
10-7B-9: Dwelling Requirements
10-7B-10: Site Plan Required For Three Or More Dwelling Units
10-7B-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
   A.   The R-4 Multiple Residential Zone has been established for the purpose
of providing a location within the Town where one-, two- and multiple-family
dwellings, up to a maximum of four (4) dwelling units per structure, can be
located most appropriately. This zone is characterized by a variety of dwelling
types and denser residential environment than is characteristic of the other
residential zones. However, attractive lawns, shrubs, trees and other landscape
planting about the house and the parking areas are also characteristic of this
zone. It is anticipated that area placed in this zone will be relatively small
and will be distributed in throughout the community where higher density
development can be best accommodated and where the commingling of various types
of residential uses, churches and schools can occur with minimum disruption of
traditional development patterns.
   B.   Representative of the uses of this zone are one-, two-, three- and
four-family dwellings mingled with churches, schools and parks. Commercial
uses, office buildings and industrial establishments inconsistent with the
intent of the zone are not permitted.
   C.   The specific regulations necessary for the accomplishment of the zone
are hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-7B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted upon
compliance with the applicable requirements of this title:
Churches.
Customary residential accessory structures.
Fences, walls and hedges, subject to the requirements of section
10-10-13 of this title.
Foster care homes containing not more than three (3) non- related foster care
occupants.
Gardens, orchards and field crops.
Home occupations, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-17 of this title.
Household pets, not including kennels.
Minor utility transmission project.
One-, two-, three- and four-family dwellings, conventional construction.
One-, two-, three- and four-family dwellings, manufactured housing, subject to
the provisions of section
10-10-21 of this title.
Public agency parks and playgrounds.
Temporary signs advertising the sale of the premises not exceeding twelve (12)
square feet. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-15, 12-12-2019)
10-7B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted upon
compliance with the applicable requirements of this title and after approval
has been given by the designated review agency:
Earth shelter home projects, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-20 of this title and the prior approval of a site plan in accordance with
the provisions of section
10-10-19 of this title.
Planned unit developments and residential condominium projects subject to the
applicable provisions of section
10-13-1 of this title.
Public schools, buildings and grounds, not including storage yards, subject to
the conditions of section
10-10-18 of this title.
Residential facility for disabled persons, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-23 of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-15, 12-12-2019)
10-7B-4: AREA AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum area and width requirements of a zoning lot shall be as follows:
 
Use                    Minimum Area       Minimum Width
                                          (Feet)
One-family dwellings   12,000 square feet 120
Two-family dwellings   16,000 square feet 160
Three-family dwellings 18,000 square feet 200
Four-family dwellings  20,000 square feet 240
Churches               5 acres            200
Schools                5 acres            200
 
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-7B-5: ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
Each lot shall abut upon and have direct access to a Town street. The distance
of said abutting side shall be not less than the minimum width requirement of
the zone, except that the length of said abutting side may be reduced to not
less than sixty feet (60') when the lot fronts upon a cul-de-sac or curve in a
designated Town street and the lot lines radiate in such a manner that the
width of the lot will meet or exceed the minimum width requirements of the zone
at a distance of forty feet (40') from the front setback line as measured along
the side lot line. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-7B-6: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Main Buildings: All dwellings and other main buildings and structures
shall be set back in accordance with the following:
      1.   Front Setback: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back twenty feet (20') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Setbacks:
         a.   Interior lots: All dwellings and other attached main buildings,
including carports, garages or similar structures, shall be set back not less
than eight feet (8') from either side lot line and the combined total distance
of the two (2) side setbacks shall not be less than twenty feet (20').
         b.   Corner lots; side abutting street: All dwellings and other main
buildings shall be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from the side lot
which abuts on a street.
      3.   Rear Setback; Interior Lots: All dwellings shall be set back not
less than twenty feet (20') from the rear lot line.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings shall be located in
accordance with the following:
      1.   Setback From Main Building; Front Setback: Accessory buildings shall
be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from front property line, and not
less than eight feet (8') from the closest side wall or rear wall of the main
building. Accessory buildings which are located eight feet (8') or closer to a
main building shall be considered as part of the main building. Where no main
building exists on a lot, a detached accessory building shall be set back not
less than twenty feet (20') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Setbacks:
         a.   Interior lots: Detached accessory buildings shall be set back not
less than three feet (3') from the drip line on the side property line.
         b.   Side setback; corner lot, side abutting street: Accessory
buildings shall be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from the side lot
line which abuts on a street.
      3.   Rear Setback: The rear setback for an accessory building shall not
be less than three feet (3') from the drip line. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-7B-7: HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   Maximum: The maximum height of any building shall be thirty feet (30')
or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is higher. Where the ground is
uneven in height, the average elevation thereof shall apply. Chimneys,
flagpoles, television antennas, church towers and similar ancillary structures
not used for human occupancy shall be excluded in determining height; provided,
that no such ancillary structure shall extend to a height in excess of fifteen
feet (15') above the building, except when approved by the Planning Commission
as set forth under section
10-10-19 of this title.
   B.   Minimum: The minimum height of a building used as a dwelling shall be
not less than eight feet (8'), except when approved as an earth shelter home
project as provided in section
10-10-20 of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-7B-8: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
All dwellings and other structures to be used for human occupancy shall be
served by the Town water and sewer systems. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-7B-9: DWELLING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Area: The ground floor of any one-family dwelling shall contain
not less than nine hundred fifty (950) square feet of living area. The ground
floor living area on any two-, three- or four-family dwellings shall be not
less than three thousand eight hundred (3,800) square feet. Each dwelling unit
shall contain not less than nine hundred fifty (950) square feet of living
area.
   B.   Minimum Dimension: The minimum width or length dimension of any
dwelling as measured from the outside wall shall be not less than twenty four
feet (24'). Nonliving spaces, such as garages, porches and sheds, shall not be
included in determining compliance with these requirements. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
10-7B-10: SITE PLAN REQUIRED FOR THREE OR MORE DWELLING UNITS:
Prior to the issuance of a building permit for any dwelling containing three
(3) or more units, a site plan shall be submitted to and approved by the
Planning Commission in accordance with the provisions of section
10-10-19 of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
CHAPTER 8
R-C RESIDENTIAL-COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Permitted Uses
10-8-3: Conditional Uses
10-8-4: Site Plan Review
10-8-5: Area Density Requirements
10-8-6: Lot Frontage And Setbacks; Lot Coverage
10-8-7: Height Of Building
10-8-8: Utility Requirements
10-8-9: Minimum Building Size
10-8-10: Enclosed Buildings And Areas; Storage For Displays And Trash
10-8-11: Off-Street Parking
10-8-12: Miscellaneous Requirements
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The R-C Residential-Commercial Zone is established to provide areas in
which the primary uses of land are commercial uses that serve the daily needs
of the community and its residents, as well as residential uses. The purposes
and intent of this zone include the following:
      1.   To promote and facilitate the development of attractive entrances to
the Town;
      2.   To reduce conflict between residential and commercial uses of lands
along the principal highway (Utah State Highway 36) that runs through the Town;
      3.   To encourage the orderly development of both residential and
commercial uses of land in this zone;
      4.   To facilitate the orderly expansion of commercial uses within the
zone, commencing at the southern end of the zone, and extending to the north
along Highway 36;
      5.   To encourage the development of commercial enterprises that will
serve the day to day needs of residents of the Town and will expand the tax
base of the Town; and
      6.   To establish an area that serves as the core commercial area of the
Town.
   B.   The R-C Zone is characterized by attractive and well maintained
commercial and residential buildings surrounded by attractive landscaped
entrances and yards. Commercial uses will include attractive well maintained
shops, with parking and traffic flow designed in a way to facilitate the
orderly passage of motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic from adjacent streets
and highways. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-8-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in the R-C Zone upon compliance with the
requirements set forth in this title, and otherwise as provided by Town
ordinances:
Accessory uses and structures provided they are incidental to, and do not
substantially alter the character of, the permitted principal use or structure.
Churches and houses of worship.
Entertainment businesses, including movie theaters, athletic clubs, recreation
centers, bowling alleys and similar enterprises.
Financial services buildings, such as banks and credit unions, including drive-
up facilities.
Funeral homes.
Home occupations, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-17 of this title.
Hotels and motels.
Household pets, excluding kennels.
Motor vehicle fuel sales and services, motor vehicle sales, car washes and
compatible motor vehicle related businesses.
Office buildings.
Personal services, such as barber and beauty shops, shoe repair, laundry and
similar establishments.
Preschools and childcare nurseries.
Restaurants, including fast food type restaurants and other food service
establishments.
Retail stores, including convenience stores and other retail establishments.
Schools.
Single-family and two-family dwellings.
Storage of materials used for construction of a building, including
contractor's temporary office; provided, that such use is on the building site
or immediately adjacent thereto; and provided further, that such use will be
permitted only while construction is actually in progress and thirty (30) days
thereafter. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-15, 12-12-2019)
10-8-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed in the R-C Zone as a conditional use upon
compliance with the reasonable requirements of the Planning Commission, as well
as the requirements set forth in this title, and otherwise as provided by Town
ordinances:
Combined residential and commercial uses located on the same parcel or within
the same structure.
Establishments determined by the Town to be similar and compatible with the
permitted uses described in this chapter.
Household pets. A fourth dog may be approved as a conditional use.
Manufacturing and processing activities that are incidental to or associated
with a permitted retail or food service establishment.
Multi-family dwellings, including rental or condominium housing with three (3)
or more units.
Single-family dwellings on parcels of less than three (3) contiguous and
adjacent platted Town lots. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-15, 12-12-
2019)
10-8-4: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Required: Every development application within the R-C Zone shall
require a site plan review and approval, taking into consideration the factors
described in this chapter, elsewhere in this title and otherwise as provided by
Town ordinances.
   B.   Conversions: The conversion of a residential structure to a commercial
use, or conversion of a commercial structure to a residential use, shall
require site plan review and approval, taking into consideration the factors
described in this chapter, elsewhere in this title and otherwise as provided by
Town ordinances. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-8-5: AREA DENSITY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Residential Uses: Residential uses within the R-C Zone shall be subject
to the lot size and density requirements of the R Residential Zone.
   B.   Combined Uses: Combined residential and commercial uses located on the
same parcel or within the same structure shall be subject to the lot size and
density requirements of the R Residential Zone.
   C.   Commercial Uses: For commercial uses, there shall be no minimum lot
area requirements within the R-C Zone, except as required to meet requirements
for off-street parking, loading and access; adequate circulation of vehicular
and pedestrian traffic; setbacks; landscaping; and property site utilization.
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-8-6: LOT FRONTAGE AND SETBACKS; LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   Residential Frontage And Setback: Residential uses within the R-C Zone
shall be subject to the frontage and setback requirements of the R Residential
Zone.
   B.   Combined Frontage And Setback: Combined residential and commercial uses
located on the same parcel or within the same structure shall be subject to the
lot frontage and setback requirements of the R Residential Zone.
   C.   Commercial Frontage: Each commercial use shall abut a public street for
a minimum distance of one hundred feet (100'); provided, however, that said
distance may be reduced through the Town site plan process where a reduced
frontage may be approved if deemed safe and feasible in light of factors, such
as compatibility with adjacent parcels, dedicated ingress and egress from
adjacent parcels, appropriate off-street parking, loading and access, adequate
circulation of vehicular and pedestrian traffic, landscaping and property site
utilization.
   D.   Commercial Setbacks: Each commercial use shall have minimum yard
setbacks as required in the R Residential Zone; provided, however, that
setbacks may be reduced through the Town site plan process where a smaller
setback may be approved if deemed safe and feasible in light of factors, such
as compatibility with adjacent parcels, dedicated ingress and egress from
adjacent parcels, appropriate off-street parking, loading and access, adequate
circulation of vehicular and pedestrian traffic, landscaping and property site
utilization.
   E.   Commercial Maximum Lot Coverage: For commercial uses, there shall be no
requirement for maximum lot coverage; provided, however, that the site plan
makes adequate provision for off- street parking, loading and access; adequate
circulation of vehicular and pedestrian traffic; setbacks; landscaping; and
property site utilization. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-8-7: HEIGHT OF BUILDING:
   A.   Residential And Combined: The height of residential structures (and of
combined residential-commercial buildings and accessory buildings) shall be
consistent with the requirements of the R Residential Zone.
   B.   Commercial: The height of any commercial structure shall be at least
eight feet (8') and shall not exceed the greater of thirty feet (30') or two
and one-half (21/2) stories. Where the ground is uneven or sloped, the average
elevation (measured from the property boundaries) thereof shall apply.
Chimneys, flagpoles, television antennas and similar ancillary structures not
used for human occupancy shall be excluded in determining height; provided,
that no such ancillary structure shall extend to a height that exceeds fifteen
feet (15') above the tallest roof point of the building, except when approved
by the Planning Commission as set forth in this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-8-8: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
All structures and uses in the R-C Zone shall be served by the Town culinary
water and sanitary sewer systems. For combined commercial and residential uses,
separate commercial and residential connections may be required; provided,
however, that if separate connections are not feasible, a common connection may
be allowed, subject to payment of higher commercial fees and charges. (Ord. 17-
02, 3-16-2017)
10-8-9: MINIMUM BUILDING SIZE:
   A.   Residential: The minimum dimensions of a residential dwelling
(including the residential portion of a combined commercial-residential
structure) in the R-C Zone shall be consistent with the requirements of the R
Residential Zone.
   B.   Commercial: There shall be no minimum size, area or dimension
requirement for commercial structures in the R-C Zone. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-8-10: ENCLOSED BUILDINGS AND AREAS; STORAGE FOR DISPLAYS AND TRASH:
   A.   Uses Conducted Within Enclosed Building: All uses shall be conducted
entirely within a fully enclosed building, except those uses that are
customarily and appropriately conducted in the open, such as automobile fueling
service stations, drive- in restaurants, automobile sales, garden supplies,
plant nursery displays, and similar uses.
   B.   Storage Of Materials, Supplies: All materials, supplies, merchandise or
other similar matter not on display for direct sale, rental or lease to patrons
of a business shall be stored within a completely enclosed building within the
R-C Zone, or within the confines of an approved space within a one hundred
percent (100%) opaque wall or fence not less than six feet (6') high.
Merchandise which is offered for sale as described above may be displayed
beyond the confines of a building in the R-C Zone, but the area occupied by
such outdoor display shall not constitute a greater number of square feet than
ten percent (10%) of the ground floor area of the building housing the
principal use.
   C.   Trash, Used Materials: No trash, garbage, used materials or wrecked,
inoperable or abandoned vehicles or equipment shall be stored in an open area.
All such materials shall be kept in fully enclosed buildings or approved fenced
areas. Fenced areas shall be surrounded by a wall or fence constructed with one
hundred percent (100%) opaque wall or fence. All structures, including fencing,
built to accommodate the storage of vehicles, trash and garbage, shall be
constructed using a design and materials similar to the adjacent primary
structure. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-8-11: OFF-STREET PARKING:
   A.   Nonresidential Uses: For nonresidential uses, off-street vehicular
parking shall be designed in a way to ensure that vehicles area that vehicular
ingress and egress is accomplished by forward motion only.
   B.   Residential Uses: For residential uses abutting Highway 36 (and subject
to preexisting uses as defined in this title), no off-street vehicular parking
shall be permitted that requires backing onto Highway 36 to exit the property.
Site plans for such residential uses shall provide for vehicular ingress and
egress from Highway 36 by forward motion only.
   C.   Other Requirements: Off-street parking within the R-C Zone shall
otherwise be subject to the parking requirements of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-
16-2017)
10-8-12: MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Site Plan Review: Site plans shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission and the Town Council for review and approval before any construction
may begin.
   B.   Included In Site Plan: The site plan shall include grading and drainage
plans, and shall show all proposed improvements on the site. Lot grading shall
be kept to a minimum. Roads and development shall be designed for preservation
of natural grade.
   C.   Stormwater: All drainage of stormwater from any lot must follow
applicable requirements of the Town. Storm drainage shall not be allowed to
flow upon adjacent lots unless an easement for such purpose has been
established by past use or granted by the owner of the lot upon which the water
flows. At the Town's discretion, a written acknowledgement, in recordable form,
of stormwater drainage may be required as part of the site plan approval
process.
   D.   Illumination: For all nonresidential commercial uses in the R-C Zone,
electrical reflectors, spotlights, floodlights and other sources of
illumination may be used to illuminate buildings, landscaping, signs, parking
and loading areas, provided they are equipped with proper lenses or other
devices concentrating the illumination upon the building, landscaping, signs,
parking and loading areas, on any property, and preventing any bright, direct
illumination upon adjacent residential property or any public right-of-way. No
unshielded lights, reflectors or spotlights shall be so located that they are
shining towards or are directly visible from the public right-of-way.
   E.   Building Facade: For all nonresidential commercial uses in the R-
C Zone, the design of a building facade facing any public street must be at
least equal to the quality of the front or main entrance to the building. (Ord.
17-02, 3-16-2017)
CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. LI LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-9A-1: Legislative Intent
10-9A-2: Permitted Uses
10-9A-3: Conditional Uses
10-9A-4: Area Requirements
10-9A-5: Width Requirements
10-9A-6: Access Requirements
10-9A-7: Location Requirements
10-9A-8: Site Plan Approval Required For Certain Non- Conditional Uses
10-9A-9: Utility Requirements
10-9A-10: Special Provisions
10-9A-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
   A.   The LI Light Industrial Zone has been established for the purpose of
providing a place where firms engaged in light manufacturing, processing,
warehousing and fabrication of goods and materials can locate with minimum
conflict or deleterious effect on surrounding properties and uses and with a
high degree of protection from encroachment of residential and commercial uses.
It is also intended in this zone to promote the economic well being of the
people and broaden the tax base.
   B.   The zone is characterized by a mixture of industrial establishments,
with ready access to major transportation routes and served by adequate
streets, power, water and other utilities and facilities. Some of the territory
designated will consist of open land intended for future industrial
development. Accordingly, some of the territory will be used for agriculture or
other open land uses until its industrial potential is realized.
   C.   Representative of the uses with the zone are structures utilized for
light manufacturing, fabrication, processing, storage, warehousing and
wholesale distribution under conditions which limit the generation of noise,
vibration, smoke, odor, dust, fumes or hazards from explosion. Residential and
retail commercial developments and other activities, which would be
inconsistent with the use of the land for industrial purposes, are not
permitted in the zone.
   D.   The specific requirements necessary for the accomplishment of the
purpose of the zone are hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-9A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted upon
compliance with the standards and requirements set forth in this title:
Accessory advertising signs.
Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics.
Buildings, silos and other structures for the storage and keeping of
agricultural products and machinery.
Corrals and pens for the enclosure of livestock. Also, barns, stables, coops,
sheds, hutches or similar buildings used for the housing or confinement of
livestock and fowl; provided, that any such corral or pen, or any building used
for the housing of livestock or fowl, shall be located not closer than seventy
five feet (75') to an existing dwelling or other occupied structure located on
an adjacent lot, or forty feet (40') to such dwelling or structure on the same
lot.
Forest and plant nurseries and greenhouses.
Incidental sale of products manufactured on the premises or utilized in the
manufacturing process carried out by the primary use.
Livestock and commodity auctions.
Manufacturing, compounding, processing, fabrication and warehousing of goods
and materials; provided, that all activities shall be conducted in a manner
that no fumes, smoke, noise, vibration or odor is emitted which is discernible
beyond the limits of the zone boundary.
Minor utility transmission projects.
Production of fruit and crops in the field.
Raising, care and keeping of livestock and fowl in an amount not exceeding
three (3) animal units per acre of lot area.
Structures and buildings for the sorting, grading, packaging, storage and
processing of fresh fruits and vegetables.
Truck terminals. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-9A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Reserved. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-9A-4: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
There shall be no minimum area requirements, except that an area sufficient to
accommodate location requirements, off- street parking, loading and unloading
and vehicular access shall be provided and maintained. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-9A-5: WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
Each zoning lot shall have a minimum width of one hundred feet (100'), measured
at the front property line. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-9A-6: ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
Each zoning lot shall abut upon and have access to a street having a width and
quality of construction sufficient to accommodate the type and weight of
anticipated vehicles. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-9A-7: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
Buildings shall be set back from the lot lines as follows:
   A.   Front Setback: All buildings shall be set back not less than twenty
feet (20'); provided, that when front off-street parking is proposed, the
minimum front setback for front off- street parking shall be increased to forty
feet (40').
   B.   Side Setbacks:
      1.   Side abutting street: Same as required for front setbacks.
      2.   Interior side: All buildings shall be set back not less than twenty
feet (20') from the lot line.
   C.   Rear Setback: Rear setback shall be as required under side setback,
interior side, as provided in subsection B2 of this section. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
10-9A-8: SITE PLAN APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN NON- CONDITIONAL USES:
Prior to commencing operation or construction of any industrial building or the
establishment of any non- conditional industrial use or building, a site plan
shall be submitted to and approved by the Town in accordance with the
provisions of section
10-10-19 of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-9A-9: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Culinary Water: All dwellings and structures used for human occupancy
shall be served by the Town central water system.
   B.   Sewage Disposal Facilities: All buildings used for human occupancy
shall be served by the Town sewage disposal system or by an approved septic
tank system. No industrial use shall discharge any substance into the sewage
system, which would have the effect of reducing the bacterial action of the
treatment lagoons. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-9A-10: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Uses Within Buildings: All uses shall be conducted entirely within a
fully enclosed building, except those uses deemed by the Town to be customarily
and appropriately conducted in the open.
   B.   Trash Storage: No trash, used materials or wrecked or abandoned
vehicles or equipment shall be stored in an open area. Containers for trash
storage of a size, type and quantity approved by the Town shall be maintained
in the location as shown on the approved site plan.
   C.   Outside Storage Areas: All outside storage areas shall be enclosed
within a fence or wall of not less than six feet (6') in height.
   D.   Maintenance Of Premises: The yards around buildings shall be kept free
of debris, refuse, weeds and other flammable material, which may constitute a
fire hazard.
   E.   Landscaping Required: As a means of mitigating potential safety hazards
or significant adverse visual impacts, the Town may require, as a condition of
site plan approval, the installation of landscape features and/or peripheral
landscape screens. When landscaping is required, the site plan shall, in
addition to all other plan elements, contain landscape features and the
location of required sprinkler systems. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
CHAPTER 10
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS WITHIN ZONES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Intent
10-10-2: Yard Space For One Building Only
10-10-3: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space Prohibited; No Rights In Severed Lots
10-10-4: Each Dwelling To Be On Zoning Lot
10-10-5: Accessory Building Prohibited As Living Quarters
10-10-6: Storage Of Junk And Debris Prohibited
10-10-7: Yards Unobstructed; Projections Excepted
10-10-8: Exception To Front And Side Setback Requirements
10-10-9: Clear View Of Intersecting Streets
10-10-10: Setback Of Buildings From Proposed Streets
10-10-11: Additional Height For Public Buildings
10-10-12: Drainage
10-10-13: Fences, Walls And Hedges
10-10-14: Utility Buildings And Structures Permitted In Residential Zones
10-10-15: Off-Street Parking
10-10-16: Temporary Uses
10-10-17: Home Occupations
10-10-18: Public Buildings And Structures To Be Approved
10-10-19: Site Plan Review
10-10-20: Earth Shelter Home Projects
10-10-21: Recreation Vehicles And Mobile Homes Prohibited; Exceptions
10-10-21-1: Existing Single-Wide Mobile Homes
10-10-22: Connection To Utility Services Required
10-10-23: Residential Facilities For Disabled Persons
10-10-24: Criteria For Determining Compliance With Lot Requirements
10-10-25: Minimum Square Feet Of Lot For Residential Dwellings
10-10-26: Landscaping Requirements
10-10-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to provide for several miscellaneous land
development standards, which are applicable in more than one (1) zone. The
requirement of this chapter shall be in addition to development standards
contained within the various zones. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-2: YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY:
All required yards (setbacks areas) shall be situated on the same parcel or lot
(or, as applicable, a parcel consisting of a group of 2 or more contiguous lots
previously approved by the Town) as the building or structure to which it
applies. No required yard, area or other open space around a building or use
which is needed to comply with the area, setback or open space requirements of
this title shall be considered as providing the required area, yard, setback or
open space for any other building or use; nor shall any area, yard, setback or
other required open space in an adjoining lot be considered as providing the
area, setback or open space requirement of a building or use. (Ord. 17-02, 3-
16-2017)
10-10-3: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE PROHIBITED; NO RIGHTS IN SEVERED LOTS:
The Town has approved the creation of residential and commercial parcels that
consist of more than one (1) lot as shown on the plats of the Town. The Town
has also approved the construction or placement of structures on those parcels
under a variety of circumstances where, to meet Town rules, multiple contiguous
lots have been required (e.g., to meet minimum setbacks, provide minimum street
frontages, to allow structures to be built on more than 1 lot, etc.). Where
such parcels consisting of multiple lots have been approved by the Town, and
where severance of a lot from said parcel would create a nonconformity with
Town ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, the severance of such lot is
prohibited. Any lot or parcel that is severed or created in violation of these
provisions shall not acquire the status of an approved or a nonconforming lot
or parcel, or otherwise be considered as a parcel or lot allowed or approved
for development in the Town. For purposes of this section, the word severance
shall mean any sale, transfer, lease or other conveyance, whether created by
deed, inheritance, operation of law or otherwise. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-4: EACH DWELLING TO BE ON ZONING LOT:
In the Town R and R-C Zones, only one (1) dwelling structure shall be located
and maintained on an approved parcel, consisting of three (3) platted lots,
totaling twelve thousand (12,000) square feet in area. Parcels consisting of
two (2) platted lots, and structures thereon, that were approved by the Town
shall be deemed lawful nonconforming uses and noncomplying structures. (Ord.
17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-5: ACCESSORY BUILDING PROHIBITED AS LIVING QUARTERS:
Living and sleeping quarters shall not be permitted in any accessory building.
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-6: STORAGE OF JUNK AND DEBRIS PROHIBITED:
No yard or other open space shall be used or maintained for the storage,
keeping, dismantling or abandonment of junk, debris, scrap metal, building
materials, inoperable motor vehicles or machinery, household furnishings and
appliances, or any parts thereof. For purposes of determining a violation of
this section, the existence of any more than two (2) of such items on any
single parcel that remain for a period exceeding fourteen (14) days, shall be
deemed a violation. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-7: YARDS UNOBSTRUCTED; PROJECTIONS EXCEPTED:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky and unobstructed, except
for permitted accessory buildings and except for ordinary and customary
projection of sills, belt courses, cornices and other ornamental features and
unenclosed steps and unwalled stoops, porches and carports, which may project
up to three feet (3') into a required yard. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-8: EXCEPTION TO FRONT AND SIDE SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
The setback from the street for any dwelling located between two (2) existing
dwellings may be the same as the average for said two (2) existing dwellings,
provided the existing dwellings are on the same side of the street, and are
located within one hundred fifty feet (150') of each other; and provided, that
no dwelling shall be located closer than twenty feet (20') from the right-of-
way or easement line of said street. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-9: CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
In all zones which require a front setback, no obstruction which will prevent a
clear view to automobile drivers of approaching vehicles or pedestrians shall
be placed within a triangular area formed by the street property lines and a
line connecting them at points forty five feet (45') from the point of
intersection of said street lines; provided, that where both intersecting
streets have a right-of-way width of more than eighty feet (80'), the required
distance from the point of intersection shall be reduced to thirty feet (30').
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-10: SETBACK OF BUILDINGS FROM PROPOSED STREETS:
The front facing or side facing exterior walls of structures abutting on a
proposed future street or an existing street needing to be widened, as shown on
the major street plan as a future street, shall be measured from the property
lines. For the purpose of determining the setback requirement and similar
location standards, said setback shall be from the property lines. (Ord. 17-02,
3-16-2017)
10-10-11: ADDITIONAL HEIGHT FOR PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
Public buildings and churches in residential zones may be erected to any
height; provided, that the building is set back from required building setback
lines a distance of at least one foot (1') for each additional foot of building
height above the maximum height otherwise permitted in the zone in which the
building is located. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-12: DRAINAGE:
Surface water from rooftops shall not be allowed to drain onto any adjacent
lot, parcel or street, except after written agreement signed by all parties.
Surface water or liquid from corrals, pens or coops shall not be permitted to
drain onto an adjacent lot, parcel or street into a waterway that drains into a
natural stream. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-13: FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES:
   A.   Height: No fence, wall, hedge or similar device extending into or
enclosing all or any part of the front yard area adjacent to a street shall be
constructed or maintained at a height greater than thirty six inches (36");
provided, that where the fence fabric is to be of chainlink or other open mesh
type, and the fence will remain non-sight obscuring, the maximum height may be
increased to not greater than forty eight inches (48"). The maximum height of
any fence, hedge, wall or similar enclosing device situated within any other
portion of a lot shall be six feet (6').
   B.   Corner Lots: On corner lots, the side yard area adjacent to a street
may be enclosed by a fence or wall not exceeding the maximum height; provided,
that any such fence or wall will not result in the establishment of a hazardous
condition and will be consistent with the provisions of section
10-10-9 of this chapter.
   C.   Design, Construction: All fences and walls shall be constructed of
substantial materials and the design and construction shall be consistent with
the quality of dwellings and other improvements within the surrounding area.
   D.   Plans Submitted: Before commencing construction, plans for all fences
and walls shall first be submitted to and approved by the Planning Commission
and/or Town Engineer.
   E.   Referral To Appeal Authority: Where, in the opinion of the Planning
Commission and/or Town Engineer, a proposed fence or wall does not conform to
the above criteria, he shall refer the application to the Appeal Authority for
action.
   F.   Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by a decision may appeal said decision
to the Hearing Officer, who shall have the authority to reverse, affirm or
modify any decision of the Planning Commission and/or Town Engineer. (Ord. 17-
02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-14: UTILITY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
Utility buildings and structures, such as electric buildings and substations,
may be constructed in all residential zones, but only after the Planning
Commission, as a special exception, has given approval. The Planning Commission
may require conditions which are reasonably necessary to protect surrounding
property values and residential amenities. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-15: OFF-STREET PARKING:
   A.   Intent: Regulations relating to off-street parking have been
established to increase safety and lessen congestion in the public streets, to
provide adequately for parking needs associated with the development of land
and increased automobile usage, to set standards for off-street parking
according to the amount of traffic generated by each use, and to reduce the on
street storage of vehicles.
   B.   Residential Uses: There shall be not less than two (2) off- street
parking spaces provided for each dwelling unit located on the premises.
   C.   Commercial And Residential Uses: The number of spaces, conditions and
standards relating to access, circulation, lighting, landscaping, location,
control and continuity shall be provided in accordance with standards as
established by ordinance by the Town Council, or based on established standards
established by a nationally or internationally recognized body.
   D.   Size Of Parking Space: For purposes of this title, a residential or
commercial parking space shall be not less than ten feet (10') in width and
twenty feet (20') in length. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-16: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   Intent: The following regulations are provided to accommodate certain
uses, which are temporary or seasonal in nature.
   B.   Permitted Temporary Uses:
      1.   Certain uses may be permitted on a temporary basis in any zone when
approved by the Planning Commission and Town Council. Said temporary uses may
include, but will not be limited to:
         a.   Carnivals and circuses.
         b.   Christmas tree sales lots.
         c.   Promotional displays and exhibits.
         d.   Fireworks sales stands (commercial zones only).
         e.   Itinerant merchants (commercial and industrial zones only).
         f.   Other uses determined by the Town Council to be similar to those
set forth above.
      2.   All other applications and/or permits required must also be obtained
before the temporary use is permitted.
   C.   Application For Temporary Use: Prior to the establishment of any
temporary use, an application or written proposal for a temporary use permit
shall be submitted to and approved by the Planning Commission and Town Council.
Said application shall contain the following information:
      1.   A description of the proposed use.
      2.   A description of the property to be used, rented or leased for the
temporary use, including all information necessary to accurately portray the
property.
      3.   Sufficient information to determine the yard requirements, sanitary
facilities and availability of parking space to service the proposed use.
      4.   A copy of the lease agreement or other evidence of the right of the
applicant to occupy the proposed site.
   D.   Approval Required: The Planning Commission and the Town Council may
approve said application, provided the Planning Commission or Town Council
finds:
      1.   The proposed use is listed as a permitted temporary use or in the
opinion of the Planning Commission and the Town Council is similar to those
uses permitted.
      2.   The proposed use will not create excessive traffic hazards or other
unsafe conditions in the area, and that if traffic control is required, it will
be provided at the expense of the applicant.
      3.   The proposed use shall occupy the site for a period not to exceed
ten (10) days, except for Christmas tree lots which shall not exceed forty (40)
days, fireworks sales which shall be in accordance with the time limits as set
forth in State law, and scientific studies which shall not exceed one hundred
eighty (180) days with the option of extending that time period for another one
hundred eighty (180) days.
      4.   The applicant shall provide, at his own expenses, for the
restoration of the site to its original condition, including clean up and
replacement of facilities as may be necessary. This is to occur after the
expiration of all permits.
      5.   The Town Council shall give the final approval of all temporary use
permits issued.
   E.   Town Council May Delegate Approval Responsibility; Exceptions:
      1.   The Town Council may authorize the Town Engineer to issue temporary
use permits for certain temporary uses without Town Council review. Where the
request is for a temporary use which is not listed or where, in the opinion of
the Town Engineer, the characteristics of the proposed use are not in
compliance with the above standards, the Town Engineer shall refer the
applicant to the Town Council for their action.
      2.   In granting approval, the Town Council may attach additional
conditions as they deem appropriate to ensure that the use will not pose any
detriment to persons or property. The Town Council may also require a bond to
ensure that necessary clean up or restoration work will be performed. (Ord. 17-
02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-17: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Intent: The following regulations have been established to provide
minimum standards for the establishment and operation of home occupations
within residential zones.
   B.   Application and Approval Required: Home Occupations are a permitted
use, following receipt of a business license application and subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   Home occupations are listed as a permitted use in the zone.
      2.   The home occupation is conducted within a dwelling or accessory
buildings on the premises.
      3.   The home occupation is clearly incidental and secondary to the use
of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change the character of the
building from that of a residential dwelling.
      4.   Permanent signs are limited to one (1) non-flashing sign not larger
in area than two (2) square feet.
      5.   Not more than the equivalent of twenty five percent (25%) of the
ground floor area of the dwelling is devoted to the home occupation.
      6.   The home occupation shall obtain a business license from the Town.
      7.   Entrance to the home occupation from outside may be the same
entrance normally used by the residing family, except when required otherwise
by regulation of the State Health Department or other public agency.
      8.   The physical appearance, traffic and other activities in connection
with the home occupation are not contrary to the intent of the zone in which
the home occupation is located and do not depreciate surrounding value, as
determined by the Town Engineer.
      9.   The home occupation may have up to two (2) non-resident employees.
The home occupation shall provide one additional improved on-site, off-street
parking stall per non-resident employee.
      10.   A home occupation may provide services away from the home
occupation property. By way of example, a home occupation lawn care business
can perform some business functions in the dwelling, while providing lawn care
services off-site.
      11.   Shall not include the outside storage of goods, materials, or
equipment.
      12.   Shall not involve any use of any outside yard area about the
premises whereupon the dwelling unit or accessory building is located, except
for customer parking and except for fenced outdoor areas associated with a home
occupation day care.
      13.   Reasonable inventory related to the Home Occupation shall be
allowed so long as such inventory is stored entirely within the dwelling unit
or accessory building on the premises.
      14.   Shall not create a nuisance.
      15.   Child day care and preschool home occupations:
         a.   Shall be permitted up to two (2) non-residential employees at the
home;
         b.   Shall be permitted when involving no more than sixteen (16)
children at one time per session;
         c.   Shall adhere to the following guidelines:
            (1)   A traffic and parking plan shall be submitted to the Town,
including traffic flow, drop-off and pick-up areas, and turnaround areas;
            (2)   Child preschools shall not include more than two (2) session
per day;
            (3)   No child daycare or preschool shall be established within
three hundred feet (300') from property line to property line of another
properly licensed child day care or preschool; and
            (4)   The total number of students/children shall include the
licensee's and any employee's children if they are under the care of the
licensee and/or employee at the time the home occupation is conducted.
   C.   Continuing Obligation; Business License Required: All home occupations
shall be operated in compliance with the conditions hereinabove set forth .
Issuance of the business license shall be conditioned upon continued compliance
with this Section. The business license may be refused or revoked upon failure
of the owner and/or operator to maintain or operate the home occupation in
accordance with this Section. The approval shall be valid for the remainder of
the year in which it is first granted. Thereafter, the approval will be
extended for successive one (1) year periods, commencing on January 1 of the
calendar year; provided: 1) that the home occupation remains substantially the
same as initially approved; and 2) that the home occupation has remained active
as evidenced by the acquisition of a valid business license for the previous
year. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-15, 12-12-2019; Ord. 2021-02, 1-
14-2021; Ord. 2021-05, 5-13-2021)
10-10-18: PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES TO BE APPROVED:
Prior to the construction of any building or other structures by a local
government entity, School District, County or Special Service District within
the Town, a site plan for the same shall be submitted to and approved by the
Town in accordance with the provisions of section
10-10-19 of this chapter. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-19: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
Wherever the terms of this title require submission and approval of a site
plan, such reviews shall be conducted in accordance with the following
provisions:
   A.   Designated Review Agency: The Planning Commission, or such other agency
as may be designated by this title, shall have the function, duty and power to
approve or disapprove a project plan, and to attach such modifications or
conditions as may be deemed appropriate to improve the layout of the project,
to ensure that the project will not pose any detrimental effect to persons or
property, or to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens
of the Town.
   B.   Application Required: Application for site plan approval shall be
submitted in writing to the Town and shall be accompanied by maps and drawings
showing the following:
      1.   The location of all existing and proposed buildings and structures
on the site, with full dimensions showing the distance between buildings and
distances from buildings to adjacent property lines.
      2.   The location of all parking spaces, driveways and points of
vehicular ingress and egress.
      3.   A landscaping plan showing the location, types and initial sizes of
all planting materials to be used, together with the location of fences, walls,
hedges and decorative materials.
      4.   Preliminary elevations of main buildings showing the general
appearance and types of external materials to be used.
      5.   The locations of solid waste receptacles and trash pick up areas.
      6.   Evidence of satisfaction of all applicable water supply, sewage
disposal and fire protection requirements, including, when applicable, the
installation of fire sprinkler systems.
      7.   All such plans shall show dimensions required to meet the standards
of Town ordinances, rules and regulations, or shall be drawn to scale in a way
that accurate dimensions may immediately be determined.
   C.   Approval Of Site Plan; Appeals Permitted: The Planning Commission shall
review the proposed site plan and shall issue a decision within a reasonable
time. Any person aggrieved by a determination of the Planning Commission may
request a hearing before the Hearing Officer, who shall have the authority to
reverse, affirm or modify any decision of the Planning Commission; provided,
any such appeal shall be filed within ten (10) days of the determination of the
Planning Commission.
   D.   Building Permit: No building permit shall be issued for any use,
building or structure, or external alterations thereto, which requires site
plan approval until the provisions of this section have been compiled with. Any
construction not in conformance with an approved site plan shall be considered
a violation of this title. Any building permit issued shall ensure that
development is undertaken and completed in conformity with the plans as
approved.
   E.   Business License Not Issued Without Site Plan Approval: No business
license shall be issued for any use requiring site plan approval until such
approval shall have been obtained in accordance with the terms of this section.
Any license so issued shall be null and void. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-20: EARTH SHELTER HOME PROJECTS:
The Planning Commission, subject to the following findings and standards, may
approve an earth shelter home project:
   A.   Permitted Use: Earth shelter home projects are listed as a permitted
use in the zone and the minimum height requirements of the zone allow the
placement of earth shelter homes.
   B.   Design: In the opinion of the Planning Commission, the design of all
ground structures and other surface features appurtenant to the proposed home
will be compatible with the traditional housing styles present and/or
anticipated in the vicinity of the home and consistent with the intent of the
zone.
   C.   Landscaping: All portions of the lot not devoted to aboveground
structures will be landscaped following good landscape practices.
   D.   Site Plan: A detailed site plan for the lot showing the location of the
home and all surface features and proposed landscape treatment shall be
submitted and approved. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-21: RECREATION VEHICLES AND MOBILE HOMES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Recreation Vehicles: It shall be unlawful to place any recreation
vehicle on any lot or parcel of land and to use the same for human habitation,
except when located in a recreation vehicle court.
   B.   Mobile Homes: It shall be unlawful to place a mobile home on any lot or
parcel and to use the same for human habitation, except in compliance with one
(1) or more of the following conditions:
      1.   When located in a licensed mobile home park.
      2.   When temporarily located on a lot which a building is being
constructed, but not to exceed one (1) year; provided, that the mobile home is
connected to approved water and sewer facilities; and, provided further, that a
bond or financial guarantee in an amount as set by ordinance is posted with the
Town to guarantee the removal of said home from the lot upon completion of
construction.
      3.   Manufactured homes that meet all requirements of the Federal (HUD)
law and State law shall be allowed at any location where a home of traditional
construction may be located; provided, however, that the manufactured home is
constructed and installed in a manner that complies with all Federal, State and
local laws. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-21-1: EXISTING SINGLE-WIDE MOBILE HOMES:
   A.   Any person or persons who owns a single-wide mobile home located within
the limits of the Town prior to the effective date hereof, who shall remove
said single-wide mobile home from the premises where it is situated to replace
it with a similar non-conforming single-wide mobile home, shall return said
replacement to said premises within one (1) year of the date of removal. In the
event said single-wide mobile home is not placed upon the premises previously
occupied by the non- conforming single-wide mobile home within one (1) year of
the date of removal, placement of such a mobile home will not be permitted on
the premises. Thereafter, any mobile home placed upon such premises will be
required to meet the standards of the Town manufactured mobile home ordinance.
   B.   A single-wide replacement must comply with all Federal (HUD) and State
laws.
   C.   A building permit is required to replace any single-wide mobile home.
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-22: CONNECTION TO UTILITY SERVICES REQUIRED:
All dwellings and other habitable structures shall be connected to the Town
water and sewer as follows:
   A.   Culinary Water: A separate culinary water connection shall be required
for each one-family dwelling, for each dwelling unit in a two-family dwelling,
and for each separate commercial or other non-residential structure intended
for human occupancy. For multi-family dwellings and similar multi- unit
developments, the Town may authorize the use of a common connection where: 1)
because of the design of the structure, separate connections for individual
units are not reasonably possible; and 2) the several units in the structure or
project are, and will remain, in the same ownership.
   B.   Sewage Disposal:
      1.   A separate sewage connection shall be required for each one-family
dwelling, for each dwelling unit in a two-family dwelling, and for each
separate commercial or other non- residential structure intended for human
occupancy. For multi- family dwellings and similar multi-unit developments, the
Town may authorize the use of a common connection where: a) because of the
design of the structure, separate connections for individual units are not
reasonably possible; and b) the several units in the structure or project are,
and will remain, in the same ownership.
      2.   Where, because of topographic or other physical conditions,
connection to the sewer system is not reasonably possible, the Town Council may
approve the use of a septic tank or similar individual system. As a
prerequisite of Town approval, the applicant shall provide written evidence of
approval of such system from the applicable health agency, including a
peculation test for septic tanks and approval from Tooele County. (Ord. 17-02,
3-16-2017)
10-10-23: RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR DISABLED PERSONS:
Subject to the requirements of Federal and State law governing these
facilities, residential facilities for disabled persons shall be located and
maintained in accordance with the following standards and conditions:
   A.   Code Compliance: The structure conforms to all applicable Building,
Safety and Health Departments.
   B.   Residential Character Unchanged: The structure is capable of use for
the purpose without structural or landscaped alterations that would change the
residential character of the structure.
   C.   Maximum Residents: The structure shall contain not more than eight (8)
persons, excluding the house family.
   D.   Distance To Another Facility: No residential facility for disabled
persons shall be established or maintained within three-fourths (3/4) of a mile
of another existing dwelling occupied as a residential facility for disabled
persons.
   E.   Parking: The operator of the facility shall provide adequate street
parking space.
   F.   Supervision: The operator of the facility provides written assurance to
the Town that the residents will be adequately supervised on a twenty four (24)
hour basis.
   G.   Community Advisory Committee: The operator of the facility may
establish a Community Advisory Committee, through which complaints and concerns
of neighbors may be addressed.
   H.   Non-Transferable: The use of the structure as a residential facility
for disabled persons is non-transferable and shall automatically terminate at
such time as there is any change in the character of the persons occupying the
structure, it becomes devoted to a use other than that for which it was
originally approved, or at such time as the structure or use fails to comply
with applicable health, safety and building codes, or the terms of this
section. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-24: CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING COMPLIANCE WITH LOT REQUIREMENTS:
For purpose of determining compliance with the lot width (frontage)
requirements, measurement of the lot width shall be the straight line distance
between the two (2) side lot lines, as measured at the point on said side lot
lines located twenty five feet (25') back from the front lot line. (Ord. 17-02,
3-16-2017)
10-10-25: MINIMUM SQUARE FEET OF LOT FOR RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS:
   A.   Specified: New construction for residential dwellings in the R and R-
C Zones, and any Agricultural Zone, must have a parcel minimum of not less than
three (3) adjacent platted Town lots or twelve thousand (12,000) square feet.
   B.   Legal Non-Conforming Lots: Preexisting and Town approved two (2) lot or
eight thousand (8,000) square foot parcels in the R or R-C Zones will be
"grandfathered" and considered legal non-conforming lots. All such uses and
structures located thereon shall be subject to the non-conforming use
requirements of this title.
   C.   Conditional Use: As stated in the regulations for the Town R and R-
C Zones, residential development of parcels comprised of fewer than three (3)
adjacent platted Town lots, or which are smaller than twelve thousand (12,000)
square feet, may be allowed as a conditional use. The applicant shall submit a
detailed site plan for the proposed use, which shall include (in addition to
the matters required in section
10-10-19 of this chapter) detailed elevations and drawings, including
depictions from street and side views, the footprint of any proposed structure
and details of its compliance with the minimum size requirements of this title,
details of the foundation and footings for any proposed structure, the location
of all required off-street parking spaces with dimensions of each (to consist
of not fewer than 2 spaces per residential unit), the traffic pattern for all
vehicular ingress and egress to the property, including driveways, carports and
garages, traffic patterns for all pedestrian ingress and egress to the
property, compliance with the minimum setbacks required for front, side and
rear yards, sight lines for vehicular and pedestrian traffic adjacent to the
property, details of the landscape improvements to be constructed, and other
details determined necessary for the health and safety of residents and
neighbors. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-10-26: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Intent: The Town recognizes the importance of trees and landscaping
within the community. Trees and landscaping are used to soften the visual
impact of commercial and residential building sites and parking areas, provide
safe and pleasant gathering areas, enhance community identity and encourage
compatibility with community uses. Trees and landscaping can stabilize surface
drainage, soil erosion, reduce air and sound pollution, and help with wind
control.
   B.   Landscaping Defined: "Landscaping" means the improvement of property to
include substantial live plant material, such as trees, plants, shrubs, vines,
turf, vegetative or non- vegetative permeable ground covers, and the
eradication of weeds and other deleterious material; and, can also include
nonliving, durable landscaping materials, including sculptures, patios,
specialty paving, street furniture, outdoor seating areas, rocks, pebbles,
sand, decorative walls and fences, and earthen mounds (excluding paving for
vehicular use), all harmoniously combined to produce an aesthetic affect
appropriate for the intended use.
   C.   Landscaping Plan Requirements:
      1.   Landscaping Plan And Agreement Required: A landscaping plan shall be
required for all new commercial and multi-family developments. Landscape plans
shall be approved by the Planning Commission prior to any building permits
being issued. Landscape plans for planned unit developments shall have the
approval from the Planning Commission prior to issuance of building permits and
shall follow all regulations in chapter 13, article A of this title. A
landscaping agreement is also required on a form approved by the Town legal
counsel with requirements as outlined in subsection F of this section.
      2.   Contents Of Landscaping Plan: All landscape plans shall contain the
following information, unless specifically waived by the Town Planner and/or
the Planning Commission:
         a.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures, property lines, easements, parking lots, driveways, roadways,
sidewalks, fences, recreational features and any other property features
presently on the property or planned for installment on the property.
         b.   The location, size and common species name of all vegetation to
be retained.
         c.   The location, size and common species name of all new plants,
including trees, shrubs and flower bed areas.
      3.   Residential Development: All single-family residential development
must submit a landscaping plan with the building permit application and sign a
landscape agreement on a form approved by the Town legal counsel with
requirements as outlined in subsection F of this section, before a building
permit will be issued.
   D.   Commercial Buildings:
      1.   Residential Buffer: For any area adjacent to residential zoning, a
buffer zone shall be created between the two (2) non-compatible uses. The
buffer zone shall consist of a minimum ten foot (10') landscaped setback from
the abutting property line and shall include a minimum of one (1) tree per
eight hundred (800) square feet and adequate fencing approved by the Planning
Commission. These requirements may be increased if, at the discretion of the
Planning Commission, additional screening is deemed necessary to protect and
buffer adjacent sites.
      2.   Street Frontage Tree Requirements: For areas adjacent to public
street frontage, trees shall be provided at the equivalent of one (1) tree per
every thirty (30) linear feet. Street frontage trees may be clustered or spaced
linearly in the park strip as determined appropriate by the Town Planner.
      3.   Minimum Number Of Trees: A minimum of one (1) tree per every eight
hundred (800) square feet of landscaping is required for all areas that are not
on street frontage but adjacent to residential areas.
   E.   Residential Lots: The area requiring landscaping shall be the front
yard. No less than one thousand six hundred (1,600) square feet in front of the
house shall be landscaped with fifty percent (50%) live vegetation and
substantial live plant material, such as plants, shrubs, sod, etc. (no weeds
will be included in the equation) and fifty percent (50%) non-living durable
landscaping, such as sculptures, specialty paving, rocks, decorative walls,
hard surface driveways, etc., for the purpose of beautifying the site. Trees
that are planted shall be one (1) year old or older and at least one (1) tree
chosen from the acceptable tree list. Exceptions to this planting formula may
be granted by submitting an alternate plan to the Planning Commission for their
approval.
   F.   Landscaping Agreement And Bond: The Town shall require a one thousand
dollar ($1,000.00) cash bond to be paid to the Town as part of the Landscape
Agreement. The one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) cash bond and other required
fees will be paid at the time that the building permit fee is paid. The money
will be put in escrow and the landscaping shall be completely installed within
six (6) months after issuance of the occupancy permit for the corresponding
building permit. If landscaping meets all the requirements and there is money
left in the escrow account, that amount will be refunded. If the builder does
not meet the requirements, the money in escrow will be forfeited to the Town
for trees and landscaping on public property and public rights-of-way in order
to offset the deleterious effect of non-compliance.
   G.   Maintenance: The owner and/or occupants of the parcel shall permanently
maintain the required landscaping. All landscaping shall be maintained in
healthy, neat and orderly conditions, free of weeds and litter. All specialty
paving, as well as paved areas and walls or fences, shall be in good condition
without broken parts, holes, potholes or litter. Maintenance includes watering,
mowing, proper pruning, fertilizing, the removal and replacement of dead plant
materials in a timely manner and the maintenance of any irrigation systems.
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
CHAPTER 11
NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose And Intent
10-11-2: Non-Conforming Structures
10-11-3: Construction Approved Prior To Enactment
10-11-4: Non-Conforming Uses
10-11-5: Change Of Use Not Allowed
10-11-6: Cessation Of Use
10-11-7: Presumptions And Burden Of Proof
10-11-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   This chapter shall apply to the existing use of a structure or land
lawfully established at the time of passage of the Zoning Ordinance or any
amendments thereto which does not conform to the present regulations of the
zone in which it is located. Because the Town is a community which has
developed over a long period of time, the regulations of this chapter are to
allow continued use of such property or structure, while at the same time
protecting existing conforming development and furthering orderly development
and improvement of the community.
   B.   Uses of non-conforming structures or land which are compatible with
existing development, should be allowed to continue. Improvement for better
integration into surroundings should be sought as much as possible.
   C.   Uses of non-conforming structures or land which create a nuisance, or
detract from or are a hazard to the community or a neighborhood, should be
eliminated or brought into compliance with the present provisions of this
title. (Ord. 2019-13, 8-8-2019)
10-11-2: NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Ordinary Maintenance And Repair: A non-conforming structure may be
maintained or repaired so long as such work does not increase the non-
conformity of the structure.
   B.   Addition Or Enlargement: A non-conforming structure which is non-
conforming due to height, lot coverage, setbacks, area requirements or
architectural design standards shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner,
except by approval of the Town Council in consideration of the prior
recommendation of the Planning Commission. A request to expand a structure
which does not conform to height, lot coverage, setbacks, architectural design
standards or area requirements shall be reviewed based upon the following
criteria:
      1.   Granting of the expansion will not adversely impact the attainment
of the General Plan of the Town;
      2.   The expansion will improve the general appearance or safety of the
structure and the surrounding area;
      3.   By expanding the structure, the character of the neighborhood is not
adversely impacted;
      4.   The expansion will improve the area by providing additional or
adequate parking, including that the expansion will provide for and improve
off-street parking;
      5.   Any expansion will be adequately screened or buffered, if needed, so
as not to increase impacts to the adjoining properties;
      6.   The expansion will improve the area by providing additional
protections related to the flow of stormwater; and
      7.   The proposed expansion, alteration or change does not create new
non-conformities. (Ord. 2019-13, 8-8-2019)
   C.   Damage Or Destruction:
      1.   A non-conforming structure which is involuntarily destroyed in whole
or in part due to fire, flood, wind, earthquake, or other calamity or act of
nature, may be reconstructed and restored, and the use of that non-conforming
structure continued, unless the structure or use has been abandoned.
      2.   A structure so destroyed shall be deemed abandoned if reconstruction
or restoration has not lawfully begun within one year of the date of
destruction.
      3.   Reconstruction or restoration of a structure so destroyed is
prohibited if the structure is rendered uninhabitable and is not repaired or
restored within six (6) months after the day on which written notice is served
to the property owner that the structure is uninhabitable and that the
nonconforming structure or nonconforming use will be lost if the structure is
not repaired or restored within six (6) months from the date of the notice.
Service shall be by first-class U.S. mail to the property owner address on file
with the Tooele County Recorder.
      4.   A nonconforming structure shall not be reconstructed or restored if
the owner of the structure has voluntarily demolished a majority of the
nonconforming structure or the building that houses the nonconforming use.
(Ord. 2019-06, 3-14-2019)
   D.   Moving Non-Conforming Structures: A non-conforming structure may only
be moved in whole or in part to any other location on the lot if:
      1.   Approval is granted by the Town Council in consideration of the
prior recommendation of the Planning Commission; and
      2.   Every portion of such structure is made to conform to all the
regulations of the zone in which it is to be located. (Ord. 2019-13, 8-8-2019)
10-11-3: CONSTRUCTION APPROVED PRIOR TO ENACTMENT:
A structure or part thereof which does not conform to the regulations for the
district in which it is situated, but for which a building permit was issued
and construction started prior to the enactment of this title (or a
substantially similar preceding provision), may be completed in accordance with
such plans, provided work is prosecuted continuously and without delay. Such
structure shall be deemed to be non- conforming and shall be subject to the
regulations set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2019-13, 8-8-2019)
10-11-4: NON-CONFORMING USES:
   A.   Right Of Use:
      1.   The lawful non-conforming use of a structure or land existing at the
time the applicable zoning regulations became or becomes effective may be
continued.
      2.   A vacant structure may be occupied by a use for which the structure
was designed or intended if so occupied within a period of one year after the
intended use of the structure became non-conforming.
   B.   Enlarging, Altering Or Changing Non-Conforming Uses:
      1.   Conditions For Permitting: No non-conforming use may be enlarged,
altered or changed, and no non-conforming use of land may occupy additional
land, except as provided in this subsection.
         a.   Enlargement, Alteration Or Change: A non-conforming use may not
be enlarged, altered or changed unless authorized by the Town Council in
consideration of the prior recommendation of the Planning Commission based upon
the following criteria:
            (1)   The expansion, alteration or change of the use would not
adversely impact the surrounding properties more than the existing non-
conforming use;
            (2)   The proposed expansion, alteration or change will make the
structure or site more compatible with the surroundings and existing zoning;
            (3)   The site of the proposed expansion, alteration or change of
use conforms to all site development requirements as physically possible, given
existing site limitations;
            (4)   The proposed expansion, alteration or change does not create
new non-conformities; and
            (5)   The proposed expansion, alteration or change addresses and
meets the standards described in this chapter.
         b.   Extension Beyond Original Lot Or Tract: No expansion, alteration
or change of the non-conforming use shall be allowed which would extend beyond
the original lot or tract of land.
      2.   Public Hearing: The Town Council shall hold a public hearing on any
proposed enlargement, alteration or change of a non-conforming use and shall
allow interested persons to be heard prior to making its findings and decision
with regard thereto. The Town Council shall provide reasonable notice of the
public hearing at least fourteen (14) days before the date of the hearing
pursuant to the requirements of Utah Code Annotated. (Ord. 2019-13, 8-8-2019)
10-11-5: CHANGE OF USE NOT ALLOWED:
Whenever a non-conforming use has been changed to a conforming use, such a use
shall not thereafter be changed or returned to a non-conforming use. (Ord.
2019-13, 8-8-2019)
10-11-6: CESSATION OF USE:
A use shall be deemed to have ceased when it has been discontinued either
temporarily or permanently for a period of one year or more, whether or not
with the intent to abandon said use, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Cessation Of Use Of Structure Designated Or Designed For Non-Conforming
Use: Except for residential or accessory structure, a structure, which was
originally designed for a non-conforming use, shall not be put to a non-
conforming use again when such use has ceased for twelve (12) months or more.
   B.   Cessation Of Use Of Structure Not Designed For Non- Conforming Use: A
structure, which was not originally designed as a non-conforming use, shall not
be put to a non-conforming use again when such use has ceased for twelve (12)
months or more.
   C.   Cessation Of Use Of Non-Conforming Use Of Land: A non- conforming use
of land not involving any structure (except minor structures, such as fences,
signs and structures less than 400 square feet in area) shall not be resumed
when such use has ceased for twelve (12) months or more.
   D.   Cessation Of Keeping Of Non-Conforming Animals: The keeping of non-
conforming animals shall not be resumed when such use has ceased for twelve
(12) months or more. (Ord. 2019-13, 8-8-2019)
10-11-7: PRESUMPTIONS AND BURDEN OF PROOF:
Consistent with the requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-511:
   A.   Legal Existence: The property owner shall have the burden of
establishing the legal existence of a non-complying structure or non-conforming
use.
   B.   Abandonment: Any party claiming that a non-conforming use has been
abandoned shall have the burden of establishing the abandonment.
   C.   Presumption Of Abandonment: Abandonment may be presumed to have
occurred if:
      1.   A majority of the primary structure associated with the non-
conforming use has been voluntarily demolished without prior written agreement
with the Municipality regarding an extension of the non-conforming use;
      2.   The use has been discontinued for a minimum of one year; or
      3.   The primary structure associated with the non-conforming use remains
vacant for a period of one year.
   D.   Rebuttal: The property owner may rebut the presumption of abandonment
under subsection C of this section, and shall have the burden of establishing
that any claimed abandonment under subsection B of this section has not in fact
occurred. (Ord. 2019-13, 8-8-2019)
CHAPTER 12
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Title
10-12-2: Purpose
10-12-3: Findings
10-12-4: Definitions
10-12-5: Applicability
10-12-6: Site Plan Application Requirements
10-12-7: Building Permit
10-12-8: Priority Of Antenna Site Locations
10-12-9: Conditional Uses
10-12-10: Non-Permitted Uses
10-12-11: Co-Location Requirements
10-12-12: Lease Agreement
10-12-13: Standards For Antennas And Antenna Support Structures
10-12-14: Conditional Use Permit Consideration
10-12-15: Monopole And Tower Regulations
10-12-16: Safety Requirements
10-12-17: Abandonment
10-12-18: Site Requirements
10-12-19: Maintenance Of Facilities
10-12-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS ZONING
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-12-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to address planning issues resulting
from the rapid growth and demand for low radio services. This chapter
distinguishes low power radio from other broadcasting type telecommunications
technologies and establishes provisions relating to demand, visual mitigation,
noise, engineering residential impact, health, safety and facility siting.
   B.   The purposes of this chapter are:
      1.   To regulate personal wireless services antennas, with or without
support structures, and related electronic equipment and equipment structures.
      2.   To provide for the orderly establishment of personal wireless
services facilities in the Town.
      3.   To minimize the number of antenna support structures by encouraging
the co-location of multiple antennas on a single structure, by encouraging the
location of antennas on preexisting support structures, and by encouraging the
use of Town owned property for antenna support structures.
      4.   To establish siting, appearance and safety standards that will help
mitigate potential impacts related to the construction, use and maintenance of
personal wireless services facilities.
      5.   To comply with the Telecommunications Act of 1996 by establishing
regulations that:
         a.   Do not prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision
of personal wireless services;
         b.   Do not unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally
equivalent services;
         c.   Are not based on the environmental effects of radio frequency
emissions, other than the requirement that such facilities comply with the
Federal Communications Commission regulations concerning such emissions. (Ord.
17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-12-3: FINDINGS:
The Town Council makes the following findings:
   A.   Personal wireless services devices are an integral part of the rapidly
growing and evolving telecommunications industry, and present unique zoning
challenges and concerns of the Town.
   B.   The Town needs to balance the interests and desires of the
telecommunications industry and its customers to provide competitive and
effective telecommunications systems in the Town against the sometimes
differing interests and desires of others concerning health and safety, welfare
and aesthetics, and orderly planning of the community.
   C.   The Town has experienced an increased demand for personal wireless
services facilities.
   D.   It is in the best interests of the Town to have quality personal
wireless services available, which necessarily entails the erection of personal
wireless services facilities in the Town.
   E.   The unnecessary proliferation of personal wireless services facilities
throughout the Town creates a negative visual impact on the community.
   F.   The visual effects of personal wireless services facilities can be
mitigated by fair standards regulating their siting, construction, maintenance
and use.
   G.   Spacing personal wireless services facilities evenly throughout the
Town reduces the negative impact created by the proliferation of
telecommunication towers.
   H.   Because of the height and appearance of personal wireless services
facilities surrounding properties bear a disproportionate share of the negative
impacts of a telecommunication tower.
   I.   A private tower owner who leases space for a personal wireless service
facility is the only one who receives compensation for the facility, even
though numerous other property owners in the area are adversely affected by the
location of the facility.
   J.   Encouraging personal wireless services facilities to be located on Town
property, with lease payments paid to the Town instead of an individual
property owner, indirectly compensates all citizens of the community and
adverse impacts of the facilities, and is therefor the fairest method of
distributing burden and benefit.
   K.   Locating antennas on existing buildings and structures creates less of
a negative visual impact on the community than the erection of towers.
   L.   Buildings and structures on public property can accommodate antenna
arrays, thus, reducing the proliferation of towers on all areas of the Town.
   M.   The public policy objectives to reduce the proliferation of
telecommunication.
   N.   Stealth facilities, which are facilities designed to disguise the
presence of telecommunication facilities, are preferable to towers and other
obstructive support structures, which creates an unmitigated aesthetic impact
on surrounding property.
   O.   Because of the obstructive height and size of telecommunications
support structures, such facilities have a more substantial negative visual
impact in residential areas than in commercial or industrial areas, which
frequently contain other high profile structures.
   P.   The site location requirements set forth in this chapter for the
placement of personal wireless services are necessary to protect the health,
safety and general welfare of the community.
   Q.   Utah Code Annotated section 69-3-1 et seq., grants cities the authority
to create or acquire sites to accommodate the erection of telecommunications
towers in order to promote the location of telecommunications towers in a
manageable area and to protect the aesthetics and environment of the area. The
law also allows the Town to require the owner of any tower to accommodate the
multiple use of the tower by the other companies where feasible and to pay the
Town the fair market rental value for the use of any Town owned site. (Ord. 17-
02, 3-16-2017)
10-12-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following words shall have the described meanings when used in this
chapter, unless a contrary meaning is apparent from the context of the word:
ABANDONMENT: The discontinued use of a telecommunications tower facility or
site.
ANTENNA: A transmitting device used in telecommunications that radiates or
captures radio signals.
BUSINESS USER: A user of wireless telecommunications transmission as a direct
communication use for their business purpose and not profiting from the use of
their telecommunications equipment or service.
CO-LOCATION: The reasonable sharing of tower space by more than one (1) user or
provider of wireless telecommunications services.
COMMERCIAL PROVIDER: A company or individual who provides equipment used
primarily for the transmission, reception or transfer of voice or data through
radio wave or wireless transmissions, which receives remuneration for such
service.
GOVERNMENTAL USER: A political entity or any division or subdivision of any
level of official government who uses wireless telecommunications for
transmission, reception or transfer of either data or voice communications.
GUYED TOWER: A tower that supports an antenna and requires guy wires or other
stabilizers for support.
HEIGHT: The vertical distance from ground level of the object being measured.
LATTICE TOWER: A self-supporting multiple sided, open steel framed structure
used to support telecommunications equipment.
LOW POWER RADIO SERVICE FACILITY: An unmanned structure, which consists of
equipment, used primarily for the transmission, reception or transfer of voice
or data through radio wave or wireless transmissions. Such sites typically
require the construction of transmission support structures to which antenna
equipment is attached.
MONOPOLE: A single, self-supporting, cylindrical steel or wood pole that acts
as the support structure for antennas.
MULTI-LOCATION: The same meaning and the same requirements as co-location, as
defined in this section.
NON-COMMERCIAL USER: A company or individual who legally uses wireless
telecommunications for services or communications purposes that receive no
remuneration for such services.
NON-MAINTAINED: The physical, technical, aesthetic or structural deterioration
of the site, to include any tower, antenna, apparatus, building grounds or
equipment that is in disrepair or in need of maintenance.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE: Commercial mobile telecommunications services,
unlicensed wireless telecommunications services and common carrier wireless
telecommunications exchange access services.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES FACILITIES: Facilities for the provision of personal
wireless services. Personal wireless services facilities include transmitter,
antennas, structures supporting antennas, and electronic equipment that is
typically installed in close proximity to a transmitter.
ROOF MOUNTED ANTENNA: An antenna or series of individual antennas mounted on a
roof, or mechanical room of a building.
SITE: Same as telecommunications lots, as defined in this section.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS LOTS: That area set aside for construction and placement of
telecommunications equipment, including any building towers, antennas or other
apparatus not housed in a residential or business building. A lot set aside for
telecommunications equipment and tower may differ from the official recorded
piece of property and will include any required equipment, accessories or
fenced area.
WALL MOUNTED ANTENNA: An antenna or series of individual antennas mounted
against the vertical wall of a building.
WHIP ANTENNA (FLEXIBLE): An antenna that is cylindrical in shape and flexible
in vertical construction.
WHIP ANTENNA (VERTICAL): An antenna that is cylindrical in shape and rigid in
vertical construction.
WIDTH: Horizontal measurement of the object being measured whether by side,
circumference or diameter. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-12-5: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies to both commercial and private low power radio services
and facilities, such as cellular or PCS (personal communications system)
communications and paging systems. This chapter shall not apply to the
following types of communications devices, although they may be regulated by
other Town ordinances and policies:
   A.   Amateur Radio: Any tower antenna owned and operated by an amateur radio
operator licensed by the Federal Communications Commission.
   B.   Satellite: Any device designed for over-the-air reception of television
broadcast signals, multi-channel multipoint distribution service or direct
satellite service.
   C.   Cable: Any cable television headend or hub towers and antennas used
solely for cable television services. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-12-6: SITE PLAN APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Any person, firm or corporation desiring to develop, construct or establish a
personal wireless services facility in the Town shall submit an application for
site plan approval to the Town. The Town shall not consider the application
until all required information has been included. The application shall include
the following:
   A.   Fee: The fee for site plan review, which shall be in such amount as
established by the Town Council.
   B.   Site Plan: A site plan consisting of one (1) or more pages of maps and
drawings drawn to scale. The applicant shall submit five (5) copies of the
proposed site plan to the Zoning Department. One (1) of the copies shall be
eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (81/2" x 11"), and the other four
(4) copies shall be at least eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (81/2"
x 11"), but not larger than twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36"). The proposed site plan shall be drawn to a scale large enough to clearly
show all details and in any case not smaller than sixty feet (60') to the inch.
The site plan for personal wireless facilities shall include the following
information and items:
      1.   Name and street name address of the site or location;
      2.   Name of applicant;
      3.   Name of owner of property;
      4.   North arrow;
      5.   Scale drawing;
      6.   Area of lot in square feet;
      7.   Lot line dimensions;
      8.   A vicinity map containing sufficient information to accurately
locate the property shown on the plan;
      9.   Names and location of fronting streets and locations and dimensions
of public streets, private streets and driveways;
      10.   Footprints of existing and proposed buildings and structures,
including a notation of each unit's height above the grade;
      11.   Location and size of existing and proposed antennas, with dimension
to property lines;
      12.   Location of existing and proposed fire protection devices;
      13.   Location, dimensions and distance to property lines of existing and
proposed drive accesses;
      14.   Location and dimensions of existing and proposed curbs, gutters and
sidewalks;
      15.   Location and dimension of off-street parking spaces;
      16.   Location and type of surface water drainage system;
      17.   Drawings of proposed structure elevations showing the height,
dimensions, appearance and materials proposed;
      18.   Location and description (height, materials) of existing and
proposed fences;
      19.   Location and description (dimension, distance to property line) and
type of lighting (direct or indirect) of existing and proposed signs;
      20.   A security lighting plan, if proposed;
      21.   Landscape plan scale indicating size, spacing and type of
plantings;
      22.   A signed lease agreement with the Town if the site is located on
Town property;
      23.   An impact study to prove that this will not interfere with homes
and surrounding businesses.
   C.   Written Descriptions: Written descriptions to be included with
application:
      1.   Environment: A full description of the environment surrounding the
proposed facility, including a description of adjacent uses, any adjacent
residential structures, and any structures and sites of historic significance;
      2.   Maintenance: A description of the anticipated maintenance needs for
the facility, including frequency of service, personnel needs, equipments
needs, and traffic noise or safety impacts of such maintenance;
      3.   Service Area: A description of the service area for the antenna or
tower and a statement as to whether the antenna or tower is needed for coverage
or capacity;
      4.   Location: A map showing the site and the nearest telecommunications
facility sites within the network, a description of the distance between the
telecommunications facility sites, and a description of how this service area
fits into the service network;
      5.   Licenses And Permits: Copies of all licenses and permits required by
other agencies and governments with jurisdiction over the design, construction,
location and operation of the antenna;
      6.   Radio Frequency Emissions: A written commitment to comply with
applicable Federal Communications Commission radio frequency emission
regulations;
      7.   Liaison: The name, address, telephone number and fax number of a
contact person who can respond to questions concerning the application and the
proposed facility.
   D.   Requirements For Monopoles: If the applicant desires to construct a
monopole, the applicant shall also submit a detailed written description of why
the applicant cannot obtain coverage using existing buildings or structures.
   E.   Facilities Not Located On Highest Priority Site: If the applicant
desires to locate antennas on a site other than the highest priority site, the
applicant shall provide the following information to the approving authority:
      1.   Higher Priority Sites: The identity and location of any higher
priority sites located within the desired service area;
      2.   Reason For Rejection: The reason why the higher priority sites are
not technologically, legally or economically feasible;
      3.   Justification For Proposed Site: Why the proposed site is essential
to meet the service demands of the geographic service area and the Town wide
network.
   F.   Approval Process: The Planning Commission, pursuant to its standards,
site plan and conditional use permit process, shall review the application and
site plan. The Town shall process all applications within a reasonable time and
shall not unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally equivalent
services. Any decision to deny a request to place, construct or modify personal
wireless service facilities shall be in writing and supported by evidence
contained in a written record. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-12-7: BUILDING PERMIT:
   A.   General Requirements: No towers or antenna support structures shall be
constructed until the applicant obtains a building permit from the Town. No
building permit shall be issued for any project for which a site plan, amended
site plan or conditional use permit is required, until the site plan, amended
site plan or conditional use permit has been approved by the appropriate
authority. If the design or engineering of the antenna support structure is
beyond the expertise of the Building Inspector, the Town may require a third
party review by an Engineer selected by the Town prior to issuance of a
building permit. The applicant shall pay an additional fee to cover the cost of
the third party review.
   B.   Monopoles And Towers: If the applicant is constructing a monopole or
other tower type structure, the applicant shall, if requested by the Town,
submit a written report from a qualified, Structural Engineer licensed in the
State, documenting the following:
      1.   Height and design of the monopole or tower, including technical,
engineering, economic and other pertinent factors governing selection of the
proposed design.
      2.   Seismic load design and wind load design for the monopole or tower.
      3.   Total anticipated capacity of the monopole or tower, including
number and types of antennas, which can be accommodated.
      4.   Structural failure characteristics of the monopole or tower and a
demonstration that the site and setbacks are of adequate size to contain
debris.
      5.   Soil investigation report, including structural calculations. (Ord.
17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-12-8: PRIORITY OF ANTENNA SITE LOCATIONS:
   A.   Order Of Priority: Personal wireless services antennas shall be located
as unobtrusively as is reasonably possible. To accomplish this goal, the
provider shall make a good faith effort to locate antennas on sites in the
following order of priority:
      1.   Existing Structures: Lawfully existing buildings, structures and
antenna support structures; provided, that the buildings, structures or support
structures are:
         a.   Located in a non-residential zone; or
         b.   Located in a residential zone on property that is being used for
non-residential uses (e.g., government, school or church); or
      2.   Stealth Facilities: Stealth facilities, as defined by subsection 10-
12-3N of this chapter.
      3.   Monopoles On Town Owned Property: Monopoles constructed on Town
owned property.
      4.   Monopoles On Non-Residential Private Property: Monopoles constructed
on private property; provided, that the private property is:
         a.   Located in a non-residential zone; or
         b.   Located in a residential zone on property that is used for non-
residential use (e.g., government, school or church); or
      5.   Other: Sites other than those listed above.
   B.   Burden Of Proof: The applicant shall attempt to locate its antennas on
sites in the order of priority set forth in subsection A of this section. If
the applicant desires to locate antennas on a site other than the highest
priority site, the applicant shall have the burden of demonstrating to the
approving authority why it could not locate antennas on sites with a higher
priority than the site chosen by the applicant. To do so, the applicant shall
provide the following information to the approving authority:
      1.   Higher Priority Sites: The identity and location of any higher
priority sites located within the desired service areas.
      2.   Reason For Rejection Of Higher Priority Sites: The reason why the
higher priority sites are not technologically, legally or economically
feasible. The applicant must make a good faith effort to locate antennas on
higher priority sites. The Town may request information from outside sources to
justify or rebut the applicant's reasons for ejecting a higher priority site.
      3.   Justification For Proposed Site: Why the proposed site is essential
to meet the service demands of the geographic service area and the Town wide
network. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-12-9: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following antenna locations are conditional uses; provided, that the
applicant complies with other applicable laws and regulations:
   A.   Existing Structure On Town Owned Property: Existing buildings,
structures and antenna support structures on Town owned property.
   B.   Existing Structure On Private Property: Lawfully existing buildings and
structures located on private property; provided, that the private property is:
      1.   Located in a non-residential zone; or
      2.   Located in a residential zone on property that is used for a non-
residential use (e.g., government, school or church); or
      3.   Located in residential zone on property that includes a multi-family
residential building having eight (8) or more dwelling units and which is at
least thirty five feet (35') in height.
   C.   Co-Location: Co-location on a lawfully existing antenna support
structure located on private property.
   D.   Monopoles In Industrial Areas: Monopoles constructed in industrial or
manufacturing zones.
   E.   Stealth Facilities In Non-Residential Zones: Stealth facilities
constructed in non-residential zones, unless they are constructed as part of a
structure for which a conditional use permit is otherwise required, in which
case they shall be conditional uses. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-12-10: NON-PERMITTED USES:
The following antenna types and antenna locations are not permitted, except
upon a showing of necessity (inability to achieve coverage or capacity in the
service area) by the applicant, in which case they shall be considered as
conditional uses:
   A.   Lattice Towers And Guyed Towers: Lattice towers, guyed towers and other
nonstealth towers, with exception of monopoles, are not permitted in any zone.
   B.   Monopoles On Private Property In Residential Zone: Monopoles located on
residentially zoned private property, if the residentially zoned property has a
residential use (as opposed to a school, church or other non-residential use).
   C.   Conditional Uses: Antennas proposed for any other location shall be
considered as conditional uses; provided, that the applicant complies with
other applicable laws and regulations. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-12-11: CO-LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise authorized by the approving authority for good cause shown,
every new monopole shall be designed and constructed to be of sufficient size
and capacity to accommodate at least one (1) additional wireless
telecommunications provider on the structure in the future. Any conditional use
permit for the monopole may be conditioned upon the agreement of the applicant
to allow co-location of other personal wireless providers on such terms as are
common in the industry. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-12-12: LEASE AGREEMENT:
Before any lease agreement is approved, an impact study must be done and prove
that this will not interfere with any home or business. The Town shall enter
into a standard lease agreement with the applicant for any facility built on
Town property. The Mayor or the Mayor's designee is hereby authorized to
execute the standard lease agreement on behalf of the Town. The lease shall
contain the condition that the site plan and/or conditional use permit must
first be approved by the approving authority before the lease can take effect.
The conditional permit may be revoked if guidelines are not met, and the
failure to obtain such approval renders the lease null and void. (Ord. 17-02,
3-16-2017)
10-12-13: STANDARDS FOR ANTENNAS AND ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURES:
Personal wireless services facilities are characterized by the type or location
of the antenna structure. There are the following general types of antenna
structures contemplated by this chapter: wall mounted antennas; roof mounted
antennas; monopoles with no platform; monopoles with a platform; and stealth
facilities. If a particular type of antenna structure is allowed by this
chapter as a conditional use, the minimum standards for that type of antenna
are as follows, unless otherwise provided in a conditional use permit:
   A.   Wall Mounted Antennas:
      1.   Maximum Height: Wall mounted antennas shall not extend above the
roofline of the building or structure, or extend more than four feet (4')
horizontally from the face of the building.
      2.   Setback: Wall mounted antennas shall not be located within one
hundred feet (100') of any residence.
      3.   Mounting Options: Antennas mounted directly on existing parapet
walls, penthouses or mechanical equipment rooms are considered to be wall
mounted antennas if no portion of the antenna extends above the roofline of the
parapet wall, penthouse or mechanical equipment room.
      4.   Color: Wall mounted antennas, equipment and supporting structures
shall be painted to match the color of the building or structure, or the
background against which they are most commonly seen. Antennas and the
supporting structures on the building shall be architecturally compatible with
the building. Whip antennas are not allowed on a wall mounted antenna
structure.
   B.   Roof Mounted Antennas:
      1.   Maximum Height: The maximum height of a roof mounted antenna shall
be eighteen feet (18') above the roofline of the building.
      2.   Setback: Roof mounted antennas shall be located at least five feet
(5') from the exterior wall of the building or structure, and at least fifty
feet (50') from any residence.
      3.   Mounting Options: Roof mounted antennas may be mounted on top of
existing penthouses or mechanical equipment rooms if the antennas and antenna
support structures are enclosed or visually screened from view. The screening
structure may not extend more than eight feet (8') above the existing roofline
of the penthouse or mechanical equipment room.
      4.   Color: Roof mounted antennas, equipment and supporting structures
shall be painted to match the color of the building or structure, or the
background against which they are most commonly seen. Antennas and supporting
structures shall be architecturally compatible with the building.
   C.   Combination Wall And Roof Mounted Antennas: Any building may have a
combination of wall and roof mounted antennas. The total area for all wall and
roof mounted antennas and supporting structures on any one (1) building shall
not exceed the lesser of sixty (60) square feet or five percent (5%) of each
exterior wall of the building.
   D.   Monopoles With No Platform:
      1.   Maximum Height And Width: The maximum height of the monopole or
monopole antenna shall be seventy five feet (75'), although the approving body
may, as a conditional use, allow an antenna or antenna support structure up to
one hundred feet (100') in height, if the applicant demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the approving body that the additional height is necessary to
obtain coverage or to allow co-location, and that the applicant has taken steps
to mitigate adverse effects on the surrounding neighborhood. The entire antenna
structure mounted on the monopole shall not exceed three feet (3') in width.
The antenna itself shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height.
      2.   Setback: Monopoles shall be set back a minimum of one hundred
fifteen percent (115%) of the height of the monopole from any residential lot
line, measured from the base of the monopole to the nearest residential lot
line.
      3.   Color: Monopoles, antennas and related support structures shall be
painted a neutral color, or a color to match the background against which they
are most commonly seen.
   E.   Monopoles With Platform:
      1.   Maximum Height And Width: The maximum height of the monopole or
monopole antenna shall be seventy five feet (75'), although the approving body
may, as a conditional use, allow an antenna or antenna support structure up to
one hundred feet (100') in height, if the applicant demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the approving body that the additional height is necessary to
obtain coverage or to allow co-location, and that the applicant has taken steps
to mitigate adverse effects on the surrounding neighborhood. The antennas and
antenna mounting structures on the monopole shall not exceed eight feet (8') in
height or fifteen feet (15') in width. The antenna itself shall not exceed ten
feet (10') in height.
      2.   Setback: Monopoles shall be set back a minimum of one hundred
fifteen percent (115%) of the height of the monopole from any residential lot
line, measured from the base of the monopole to the nearest residential lot
line.
      3.   Color: Monopoles, antennas and related support structures shall be
painted a neutral color, or a color to match the background against which they
are most commonly seen.
   F.   Stealth Facilities; Maximum Height: The maximum height of a stealth
facility shall be the maximum structure height of the zoning district in which
the stealth facility is located. The applicant may exceed the maximum structure
height if allowed to pursuant to a conditional use permit. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
10-12-14: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT CONSIDERATION:
In addition to the Town standard conditional use permit considerations, the
Planning Commission shall consider the following factors when deciding whether
to grant a conditional use permit for a personal wireless services facility:
   A.   Compatibility: Compatibility of the facility with the height, mass and
design of buildings, structures and uses in the vicinity of the facility.
   B.   Screening: Whether the facility uses existing or proposed vegetation,
topography or structures in a manner that effectively screens the facility.
   C.   Disguise: Whether the facility is disguised in a manner that mitigates
potential negative impacts on surrounding properties.
   D.   Parcel Size: Whether the facility is located on a parcel of sufficient
size to adequately support the facility.
   E.   Location On Parcel: Whether the structure is situated on the parcel in
a manner that can best protect the interests of surrounding property owners,
but still accommodate other appropriate uses of the parcel.
   F.   Location In General: Whether location or co-location of the facility on
other structures in the same vicinity is practicable, without significantly
affecting the antenna transmission or reception capabilities.
   G.   Co-Location: The willingness of the applicant to allow co- location on
its facility by other personal services providers on such terms as are common
in the industry. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-12-15: MONOPOLE AND TOWER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Distance From Other Monopoles: Monopoles and towers shall be located at
least one thousand feet (1,000') from each other, except upon a showing of
necessity by the applicant, or upon a finding by the Town that a closer
distance would adequately protect the health, safety and welfare of the
community. This distance requirement shall not apply to stealth facilities or
to antennas attached to lawful structures, such as transmission towers, utility
poles, outdoor lighting structures and water tanks.
   B.   Location On Parcel: Monopoles shall be located as unobtrusively on a
parcel as possible, given the location of existing structures, nearby
residential areas and service needs of the applicant. Monopoles shall not be
located in a required landscaped area, buffer area or parking area. (Ord. 17-
02, 3-16-2017)
10-12-16: SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Regulations Compliance:
      1.   Compliance With FCC And FAA Regulations: All operators of personal
wireless services facilities shall demonstrate compliance with applicable
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) regulations, including FCC radio frequency regulations, at the time of
application and periodically thereafter as requested by the Town. Failure to
comply with applicable regulations shall be grounds for revoking a site plan or
conditional use permit approval.
      2.   Other Licenses And Permits: The operator of every personal wireless
services facility shall submit copies of all licenses and permits required by
other agencies and governments with jurisdiction over the design, construction,
location and operation of the facility to the Town, shall maintain such
licenses and permits in good standing, and shall provide evidence of renewal or
extension thereof upon request by the Town.
   B.   Protection Against Climbing: Monopoles shall be protected against
unauthorized climbing by removing the climbing pegs from the lower twenty feet
(20') of the monopole.
   C.   Fencing: Monopoles and towers shall be fully enclosed by a minimum six
foot (6') tall fence or wall, as directed by the Town, unless the Town
determines that a wall or fence is not needed or appropriate for particular
site due to conditions specific to the site.
   D.   Security Lighting Requirements: Monopoles and towers shall comply with
the FAA requirements for lighting. As part of the conditional use permit
consideration, the Town may also require security lighting for the site. If
security lighting is used, use of indirect lighting shall minimize the lighting
impact or surrounding residential areas, where appropriate. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
10-12-17: ABANDONMENT:
The Town may require the removal of all antennas and monopoles if the facility
has been inoperative or out of service for more than twelve (12) consecutive
months:
   A.   Notice: Notice to remove shall be given in writing by personal service,
or by certified mail addressed to the operator's last known address.
   B.   Violation: Failure to remove the antennas and monopoles after receiving
written notice to remove is a violation of the terms of this chapter. The Town
may initiate criminal and/or civil legal proceeding against any person, firm,
entity or corporation, whether acting as principal, agent, property owner,
lessee, lessor, tenant, landlord, employee, employer or otherwise, for failure
to remove antennas and monopoles in accordance with this chapter. The Town may
seek a civil injunction requiring the removal of any structures on the site in
accordance with this chapter. Any lease agreement with the Town may also
stipulate failure to remove the antennas and monopoles after receiving written
notice to do so pursuant to this chapter automatically transfers ownership of
the antennas, monopoles, support building and all other structures on the site
to the Town. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-12-18: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Regulations For Accessory Structures:
      1.   Storage Areas And Solid Waste Receptacles: No outside storage or
solid waste receptacles shall be permitted on the site.
      2.   Equipment Enclosures: All electronic and other related equipment and
appurtenances necessary for the operation of any personal wireless services
facility shall, whenever possible, be located within a lawfully preexisting
structure or completely below grade. When a new structure is required to house
such equipment, the structure shall be harmonious with, and blend with, the
natural features, buildings and structures surrounding such structure.
      3.   Accessory Buildings: A freestanding accessory building used with a
personal wireless services facility shall not exceed four hundred fifty (450)
square feet and shall comply with the setback requirements for structures in
the zone in which the facility is located.
   B.   Parking: The Town may require a minimum of one (1) parking stall for
sites containing a monopole, tower and/or accessory buildings, if there is
insufficient parking available on the site.
   C.   Landscaping: All sites with a personal wireless services facility shall
be landscaped in accordance with the zone requirements where the facility is
located. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-12-19: MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES:
All personal wireless services facilities shall be maintained in a safe, neat
and attractive manner. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
CHAPTER 13
LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Intent And Purpose
10-13-2: Types Of Developments Permitted
10-13-3: Planning, Design And Documentation
10-13-4: Construction Requirements
10-13-5: Approval Procedure
10-13-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of the large scale development provisions of this title
shall be to:
   A.   Facilitate the orderly development of the Town Comprehensive Plan;
   B.   Permit developers to vary density, architectural styles and building
forms on a project by project basis, rather than on the basis of traditional
zoning concepts;
   C.   Reduce the tax burden for special services, the cost of which can be
more appropriately charged to property owners within the developments;
   D.   Facilitate a more economical arrangement of building circulation
systems, land use, drainage and utilities that would otherwise not be possible;
   E.   Promote superior maintenance of buildings and jointly owned open space
and facilities within the development through the use of agreements between the
Town and homeowners' or property owners' associations;
   F.   Facilitate proper development of otherwise derelict inaccessible
parcels;
   G.   Establish more definitely the rights, duties and responsibilities of
land developers and unite owners with respect to the development and
maintenance of large scale projects;
   H.   Coordinate the requirements of the State Condominium Ownership Act and
the Municipal Land Use, Development and Management Act. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13-2: TYPES OF DEVELOPMENTS PERMITTED:
The following types of large scale developments may be constructed within the
Town, but may be located only in the zones in which such development is listed
as a permitted conditional use:
   A.   Planned unit developments;
   B.   Condominium projects. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13-3: PLANNING, DESIGN AND DOCUMENTATION:
The layout and design of all large scale developments and all plans, plats,
documents, agreements, brochures, statements and other submissions shall be
prepared in accordance with the provisions of this title and Town standards, as
directed by the Planning Commission or their authorized representative. (Ord.
17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13-4: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Developer Must Construct Improvements In Accordance With Plans: All
individual large scale developments shall be constructed in accordance with the
approved final plans and all final plans, plats, documents and agreements shall
be binding on the developer, his successors, grantees and assignees, and shall
limit the use of the land in the development as set forth in the approved
plans, documents and agreements. In the event that the developer performs
construction work which is not in accordance with approved final plans, the
Town Engineer or other authorized representative shall cause further work to be
discontinued and the Town Council shall obtain compliance or shall revoke all
permits relating thereto.
   B.   Developer Must Construct Improvements Within Permitted Time Period: All
improvements required under the terms of the applicable type of large scale
developments shall be constructed within the time period specified for the
duration of the guarantee of performance, except that the Town Council, upon
recommendation of the Planning Commission, may require the developer to install
the landscaping on all or part of the common open space, or to construct other
specific required improvements on all or part of an approved large scale
development within a time frame period which is less than the maximum time
period specified, but which shall not be less than six (6) months from the date
of said approval. If no development has occurred pursuant to the adopted plan
within twelve (12) months after the date of final approval, the Town Council
may revoke any building permits issued and may repeal all prior approvals of
the developments.
   C.   Stage Construction Permitted: Development may be carried out in
progressive stages, provided assurance is given to the Town Council that the
requirements and intent of this title with respect to each stage, shall be
fully complied with. Each stage shall be considered as a separate application.
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13-5: APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
The procedure to be followed in securing approval of a large scale development
project shall be as follows:
   A.   Presubmission Conference: Any person desiring to undertake a large
scale development project within the Town shall meet with the Planning
Commission, or their designated representative, to discuss the basic concept of
the proposed large scale development and to obtain information concerning the
Town requirements for approval and construction. The purpose of the conference
is to acquaint the developer with the range of opportunities for development.
   B.   Town Council Reviews Plans And Documents; Calls Public Hearing: The
Town Council shall review the preliminary plans, documents and statement as
recommended by the Planning Commission and shall advertise and hold a public
hearing on the proposed project. Said hearing shall be called in the same
manner as an amendment to this title.
   C.   Town Council Takes Action On Preliminary Plans And Documents:
      1.   Following the public hearing, the Town Council shall act upon the
preliminary plans and documents to approve, disapprove or approve subject to
modification.
      2.   If disapproved, no further action is required. If approved subject
to modification, the plans and documents shall be returned to the Planning
Commission with instructions that the developer should modify the plans and/or
documents in accordance with required changes and to resubmit the modified
proposal to the Planning Commission for its further review and recommendation.
      3.   If approved, the preliminary plans and documents shall be returned
to the Planning Commission with instruction to authorize the developer to
proceed to prepare and submit the final plans and documents through the
Planning Commission.
      4.   Upon passage of a motion by the Planning Commission and Town Council
to approve the preliminary plans and documents, the Town shall be committed to
grant final approval of the final plans and documents upon compliance with all
procedures, standards, requirements and any conditions attached to said
approval relating to the applicable large scale development.
      5.   The preliminary plans and documents shall be valid for twelve (12)
months from the date of action by the Town Council. The Planning Commission may
extend the time limit for an additional year upon approval. Any extension of
time shall be officially requested in writing and submitted to the Planning
Commission Office thirty one (31) days prior to the end of the twelve (12)
month preliminary approval period.
      6.   No construction shall be permitted until final approval of the
developments has been obtained.
   D.   Developer Prepares And Submits Final Plats, Plans And Documents:
      1.   After receiving authorization to proceed, the developer shall
prepare and submit to the Planning Commission:
         a.   Application for final approval.
         b.   One (1) reproducible tracing and three (3) copies of the final
plat, where applicable.
         c.   Three (3) copies of the final plans.
         d.   Three (3) copies of the final documents and statements.
         e.   Three (3) copies of an itemized estimate of the cost of
construction of the required improvements.
         f.   Evidence of payment of review and recording fee.
         g.   Documents conveying evidence of compliance with water rights
requirements of the Town.
         h.   A policy of title insurance or preliminary report of title,
verifying that the owners listed in the Owner's Dedication Certificate of the
final plat have sufficient control over the premises to effectuate said
dedication without boundary exceptions.
      2.   All submissions shall be prepared in accordance with Town standards.
In order for the development to be placed on the agenda, the final plans, plat
and documents must be submitted to the Planning Commission Office at least
seven (7) days prior to the meeting at which the plans are to be considered.
   E.   Planning Commission Acts On Final Plat, Plans, Documents And
Statements:
      1.   When the plans, plats, documents, cost estimates and other materials
required for approval have been completed in final form, the developer may make
application to the Planning Commission and the Planning Commission will grant
final approval after reviewing the final plan and ascertaining that:
         a.   The final plans conform to the conditions of the preliminary
approval.
         b.   The final plat complies with the requirements and standards
relating to the applicable type of large scale development.
         c.   The final documents and statements comply with the standards
relating to the applicable type of large scale development.
         d.   The estimated cost of constructing the required improvements is
acceptable.
         e.   Tax liabilities of the common open space (wherever a large scale
development involves the reservation of a common open space) have been
determined.
         f.   The proposed performance guarantee is in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 15 of this title and is in an amount sufficient to cover
the cost of the outstanding required improvements.
      2.   Upon a finding of approval, the Chairperson shall be authorized to
sign required final plats.
   F.   Developer Submits Performance Guarantees: Upon approval by the Planning
Commission, the applicant shall proceed to make arrangements suitable to the
Town for posting a bond or other financial assurance guaranteeing construction
of all uncompleted required improvements. Said performance guarantee shall be
in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of this title.
   G.   Town Council Acts On Final Plans, Plats And Documents:
      1.   After the Planning Commission has approved the final plans, plats,
documents and other materials, a copy of the same shall be submitted to the
Town Council for its approval. The Town Council will review said materials and
also the proposed performance guarantees and, subject to a properly presented
motion, may approve said plans, execute all appropriate documents, agreements
and final plats, and accept all public dedications.
      2.   Final approval shall be by adoption and publication of an ordinance
of approval. Said ordinance shall show and identify the area included within
the development and shall constitute an amendment of the ordinance and zone
map. Upon adoption and publication of the ordinance of approval, the specific
requirements of the underlying zone shall be considered modified in conformance
with the plans, plats, documents and agreements as approved by the Town
Council.
   H.   Recording Of Plats And Documents: Upon acceptance of the performance
guarantees, compliance with any conditions of approval, receipt of all executed
documents and passage and publication of the amending ordinance, the Town shall
record all final plats, documentation and agreements in the Office of the
County Recorder and shall notify the developer to proceed with construction.
   I.   Amendments: Following the same procedures required for initial
approval, the developer may amend the plans, plats, documents and statements.
No change shall be made which is contrary to the intent of the Town Land Use
Plan or the standards and requirements of this title. Any amendment of a
recorded final plat, which also qualifies as a subdivision, shall not be
approved or recorded until the existing recorded plat has been vacated. (Ord.
17-02, 3-16-2017)
ARTICLE A. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUD)
SECTION:
10-13A-1: Intent
10-13A-2: Permitted Uses
10-13A-3: Approval Procedures
10-13A-4: Project Evaluation Guidelines
10-13A-5: One-Family And Two-Family (Duplex) Projects
10-13A-6: Improvement Requirements
10-13A-7: Document Requirements
10-13A-1: INTENT:
   A.   The intent of the PUD provisions of this title is to:
      1.   Provide an alternative form of development for residential housing
projects within the Town which permits increased flexibility and encourages
ingenuity in design while preserving a quality of residential amenities equal
or superior to that possible under conventional subdivision requirements. In
order to qualify for approval as a planned unit development, it must be
demonstrated that the proposed project will: a) adequately recognize and
incorporate natural conditions present on the site; b) efficiently utilize the
land resource and provide increased economy to the public in the delivery of
Town services and utilities; c) provide increased variety in the style and
quality of residential dwellings available within the Town; d) preserve open
space to meet the recreational, scenic and public service needs; and e) do all
the above in a manner which is consistent with the objectives of the underlying
zone and under conditions which will result in the creation of a residential
environment of sustained desirability;
      2.   Establish criteria and standards for the design of such development
projects by developers and also guidelines for their evaluation by the Town;
      3.   Clearly establish the relationship of the Town and the developer
with respect to the review and approval of such projects;
      4.   Set forth the duties and responsibilities of developers and
residents with respect to the approval, construction and maintenance of such
projects.
   B.   Anyone not wishing to comply with the provisions of this article or
conditions which may be attached by the Town, as authorized herein, may proceed
to develop under the requirements for conventional subdivisions as provided in
chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land may be permitted within a
PUD:
Any use permitted within the underlying zone and those authorized under this
section.
Common area and recreational facilities for the use and enjoyment of the
residents.
Driveways, streets, fences, walls, utility systems and facilities, common
storage areas, landscape features and similar uses and structures incidental to
the main use. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13A-3: APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
Anyone desiring to obtain approval to construct a planned unit development
shall follow the procedure in section
10-13-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13A-4: PROJECT EVALUATION GUIDELINES:
   A.   Required Findings: The Planning Commission shall review the proposal
and may recommend approval, upon finding that:
      1.   All plans, documents and other materials required for consideration
have been submitted in a form suitable for evaluation;
      2.   The plan conforms in all respects to the applicable design standards
and criteria;
      3.   The site is suitable for development of the proposed PUD and the
project will be consistent with existing development in the vicinity and
compatible with the master plan for the area;
      4.   The arrangement of the buildings, roadways, open space and other
project elements will result in a safe, attractive living environment equal or
superior to that which would be produced under lot by lot development;
      5.   The project, if developed, will accomplish the objectives for PUDs
as stated under section
10-13A-1 of this article.
   B.   Changes In Plan: The Planning Commission may require changes in the
plan in order to more fully accomplish the intent of the PUD provisions. Such
changes may include, but are not limited to, adjustments in the density or the
number of structures, relocation of project elements, redesign of the road
system, increase in the amount of open space and provisions for the disposal of
surface water drainage. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13A-5: ONE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX) PROJECTS:
   A.   Area, Density And Lot Size:
      1.   Schedule: The requirements for area, density and lot size within a
one-family or two-family PUD project shall be as set forth in the following
schedule:
 
            Minimum Area In Maximum      Maximum Density    Minimum Lot Size
Zone        Project         DU/Structure (DU/Acre Net Area) (Square Feet)
            (In Acres)
R, R-4      3               2            4                  12,000
One-family  3               1            4                  12,000
Two-family  3               2            3                  16,000
(duplex)
 
      2.   Exclusion: All portions of a proposed project devoted to streets or
travel easements shall be excluded in determining compliance with the allowable
density and common open space requirements (net area), but are included in
meeting the minimum project area requirements.
      3.   Density: The density standards shown above (subsection A1, column 4
of this section) are the maximum which may be permitted under any circumstance.
The Town may allow a project to contain the maximum number of units when, in
its opinion, the shape of the parcel and natural conditions present on the site
are such that the parcel is capable of accommodating the maximum number; and
that the proposed design provides a high degree of compatibility with existing
development in the vicinity and is consistent with the intent of both the
underlying zone and the planned unit development provisions.
      4.   Subsequent Additions: Subsequent additions to the project may
contain less than the minimum project area as set forth in the above table;
provided, that the addition represents a logical extension of the project and
all other requirements are met.
   B.   Design Criteria:
      1.   Streets And Pedestrianways: All streets shall contain a right-of-way
not less than sixty feet (60') in width, which shall be improved in accordance
with Town standards for both vehicular and pedestrian travel and dedicated to
the Town.
      2.   Width Of Lot: Each interior lot shall be not less than one hundred
sixty feet (160') in width for a two-family dwelling, as measured at the
designated setback line. Corner lots shall be not less than ten feet (10')
greater in width.
      3.   Access To Lot: Each lot shall abut upon and have access to a Town
street. The distance to said abutting side shall be not less than sixty feet
(60'), except that the length of said abutting side may be reduced in
accordance with the following:
         a.   The side abutting the street may be reduced to not less than
thirty feet (30') when the lot fronts upon a cul-de-sac or curve and the side
lot lines radiate in such a manner that the width requirements will be met at a
distance of not more than forty five feet (45') from the abutting front line;
or
         b.   The side abutting the street may be reduced to not less than
thirty feet (30') when the lot qualifies and is approved as a "flag lot".
      4.   Setback Of Building: All dwellings shall be set back in accordance
with setback lines shown on the final site plan; provided, that side setback
lines shall be established in accordance with the following criteria:
         a.   Front Setback: A minimum of twenty feet (20'), as measured from
the street right-of-way line.
         b.   Side Setback; Corner Line: A minimum of twenty feet (20'), as
measured from the street right-of-way line adjacent to the side lot line
designated to provide continuous forward motion through the project, except for
approved cul-de-sacs and off- street parking spaces.
         c.   Private Travelways: Shall provide safe and convenient vehicular
movement to and from all off-street parking spaces. Private travelways shall be
not less than twenty two feet (22') in width, except that when serving as the
driveways for eight (8) parking spaces or less, the portion of the driveway not
abutting off-street parking spaces may be reduced to twenty feet (20') in
width.
      5.   Off-Street Parking And RV Storage:
         a.   Off-street parking shall be provided at the rate to two (2)
residents parking space per dwelling unit, plus five (5) spaces per unit for
visitor parking. All resident parking spaces shall be located within one
hundred feet (100') of an entrance door to the dwelling unit they are intended
to serve.
         b.   All parking spaces and areas shall be designated and constructed
in accordance with Town standards.
         c.   Not less than two (2) spaces and areas shall be covered and
designated for the exclusive use of a specific unit.
         d.   Each project shall contain an area for the storage of recreation
vehicles in the amount of one hundred fifty (150) square feet per dwelling
unit. Said area shall be lighted and enclosed within a fence or wall not less
than six feet (6') in height and shall be readily accessible from the
development street system. Said area may also include enclosed storage units
for the use of the residents.
      6.   Building Location:
         a.   Buildings shall be separated from one another a distance of
twenty feet (20'), or one foot (1') for each foot in height, whichever is
greater.
         b.   Buildings located adjacent to public streets shall be set back a
minimum of thirty feet (30') as measured from the right-of-way or pedestrianway
line, as applicable.
         c.   No building containing a dwelling or otherwise used for human
habitation, or a building having a height of fifteen feet (15'), shall be
located closer than twenty feet (20') to any adjacent property line.
      7.   Common Open Space; Sealed Surface: Not less than fifteen percent
(15%) of the net area of the development shall be retained as common open
space, parks, playgrounds and recreational facilities for the use and benefit
of the residents. Land proposed to be used for parking, pedestrian walkway area
and driveways, RV storage, private open space or land surrounding structures
required to conform with building location or setback requirements and isolated
small parcels not practically useful or accessible to the residents shall not
be included in meeting this open space requirement.
      8.   Private Open Space: Each unit shall have a private outdoor living
area as follows:
         a.   Ground floor dwellings: Each dwelling shall have an appurtenant
private patio, atrium or similar open space having a minimum area of three
hundred (300) square feet. Such space shall be designed for the sole enjoyment
of the dwelling occupants and shall be directly accessible from a room within
the dwelling. The Town may require that said area be enclosed with a fence,
wall or similar enclosure to provide privacy.
         b.   Aboveground dwelling: Each dwelling shall have an appurtenant
private balcony having a minimum area of two hundred (200) square feet and a
minimum dimension of eight (8) linear feet.
      9.   Private Storage Space: Each dwelling shall have not less than two
hundred twenty five (225) cubic feet of enclosed, waterproof and lockable
private storage space adjacent to or within the immediate vicinity of the unit.
Said space may be located within the private open space as provided for under
subsection B8a of this section, in conjunction with and as an integral part of
the covered parking structure, or other location approved by the Town.
      10.   Landscaping: All areas not otherwise occupied by buildings,
parking, roadways, etc., shall be landscaped with watering of vegetation.
      11.   Sealed Surface: Notwithstanding any of the above, not more than
fifty percent (50%) of the gross area of any development shall be covered by
buildings, paving or other surface, which could prohibit the downward
percolation of surface water.
      12.   Solid Waste Disposal: The development shall provide solid waste
disposal facilities as follows:
         a.   Common Disposal Facilities: Where common disposal facilities are
to be used, they shall be conveniently available to all dwelling units and
readily and safely accessible to maintenance equipment and shall be enclosed
with a solid fence or walls not less than six feet (6') in height.
         b.   Individual Disposal Facilities: Where the project design permits,
individual waste disposal methods may be used.
      13.   Perimeter Fencing: The outer perimeter of the project shall be
enclosed in a continuous fence or wall having a height of approximately six
feet (6'); provided, that this provision may be waived along boundaries which
are adjacent or abutting upon a street or travelway.
      14.   Utilities:
         a.   Culinary Water: Each dwelling unit shall be served by the Town
water system. The Town may require individual water connections and meters for
each unit or, at their discretion, may authorize the use of oversize
connections and a master meter for the project. Each unit shall be equipped
with an easily accessible shutoff valve.
         b.   Sewer: Each unit shall be connected to the Town sewer system,
either by an individual or common lateral, whichever is determined applicable
by the Town.
         c.   Underground Utilities: All utility systems shall be placed
underground. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13A-6: IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Specified: The developer in each planned unit development in accordance
with Town standards shall construct the following improvements:
      1.   Streets and private travelways shall be graveled and hard surface.
      2.   Curbs, gutters and sidewalks.
      3.   Drainage and flood control structures and facilities.
      4.   Water and sewer mains (on-site and off-site).
      5.   Fire hydrants.
      6.   Electric, telephone and cable TV (to be placed underground).
      7.   Landscaping in the common area and walkways.
      8.   Fences, walls and all other common area facilities, systems and
structures proposed for the development as shown on the final plans.
      9.   Common storage area.
      10.   Streetlighting and signs.
   B.   Other Improvements: Developers may install other improvements, however
the construction of other improvements shall not be required as a condition of
approval of a PUD project. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13A-7: DOCUMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Specified: The following documents shall be prepared and submitted by
the developer for each PUD project:
      1.   Article of incorporation for homeowners' association;
      2.   Corporation bylaws;
      3.   Covenants, conditions, restrictions and management policies;
      4.   Management agreement;
      5.   Open space easement;
      6.   Sales brochure.
   B.   Waiver: Where, in the opinion of the Town, a particular document
required herein is inapplicable for the particular project proposed, the Town
may waive the requirement for submitting said document. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
ARTICLE B. CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS
SECTION:
10-13B-1: Intent And Application
10-13B-2: Permitted Uses
10-13B-3: Location And Design Requirements
10-13B-4: Approval Procedure
10-13B-5: Required Documents
10-13B-6: Recording Unapproved Project Unlawful
10-13B-1: INTENT AND APPLICATION:
The intent of this article is to establish guidelines dealing specifically with
the approval process, design, construction and operation of proposed new
condominium projects, or the conversion of existing buildings or developments
to condominium project status. These provisions shall be supplement and in
addition to the general requirements for large scale developments contained
under this chapter, and also the requirements of Utah Code Annotated title 57,
chapter 8, as amended. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Uses permitted within a condominium project shall be limited to those uses
specifically permitted within the zone, which underlines the area of the
project. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13B-3: LOCATION AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Underlying Zone Applicable: Where the proposed condominium project
consists of a use or structure which is authorized as a use by right (permitted
non-conditional use) within the zone, said use or structure shall comply to
use, location, area, width, access and similar requirements of the underlying
zone.
   B.   Compliance With Plans: Where the proposed condominium project is to be
developed under the provisions relating to a planned unit development or other
permitted conditional use within the zone, all uses or structures shall comply
with the plans for such project as approved by the Town. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
10-13B-4: APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Specified: The procedure leading to approval shall be as set forth in
section
10-13-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Combined Procedures: Where a condominium project is being developed as
a planned unit development or similar planned development, the procedures may
be combined.
   C.   Conversion Projects: Where a condominium project is a conversion of an
existing structure, such conversion shall constitute a change in use and the
Town may, as a condition of approval, require the installation of separate
water and sewer connections, construction of off-street and covered parking
facilities, and such other site amendments as are required for the structure to
be in substantial compliance with current standards for design and construction
of condominium projects. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13B-5: REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:
   A.   Specified: The following documents shall be prepared and submitted by
the developer for each condominium project:
      1.   Articles of incorporation;
      2.   Corporation bylaws;
      3.   Declaration of covenants, conditions, restrictions and management
policies, declaration of condominium;
      4.   Management agreement;
      5.   Open space agreement;
      6.   Sales brochure;
      7.   Record of survey map/final subdivision plat (when applicable).
   B.   Waiver: Where, in the opinion of the Town Council, a particular
document required under this section is inapplicable for the particular
condominium project proposed, the Town may waive the requirement for submitting
said document. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13B-6: RECORDING UNAPPROVED PROJECT UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful to record any record of survey map or declaration of a
condominium project in the Office of the County Recorder, unless the same shall
bear thereon final approval of the Planning Commission and Town Council as
required under the terms of this title. Any record of survey map or declaration
so recorded without such approval shall be null and void. Any owner, or agent
of any owner, of land or units located within a purported (supposed)
condominium project, who transfers or sells any land, structure or condominium
unit in such a purported condominium project before obtaining the final
approval by the Planning Commission and Town Council on the record of survey
map or declaration, and recording the same in the Office of the County
Recorder, shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor for each lot, parcel of
land, structure or condominium unit so transferred or sold. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
ARTICLE C. MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
10-13C-1: Intent
10-13C-2: Permitted Uses
10-13C-3: Area And Density
10-13C-4: Approval Procedure
10-13C-5: Plans Required
10-13C-6: Design Standards And Criteria
10-13C-7: Improvement Requirements
10-13C-8: Required Documents
10-13C-9: Special Provisions
10-13C-1: INTENT:
The intent of these regulations is to establish guidelines dealing specifically
with design, construction and operation of mobile home parks. These provisions
shall be supplemental and in addition to the general requirements for large
scale developments. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses within a mobile home park shall be limited to the following:
Customary accessory uses, including, but not limited to, carports and storage
buildings on individual pad sites for use by the occupants.
One-family mobile and manufactured homes.
Park and recreation areas, office structures, laundries and similar service
facilities incidental to the operation of the park. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13C-3: AREA AND DENSITY:
Mobile home parks shall have a minimum area of two and one- half (21/2) acres,
and maximum density of seven (7) dwelling sites per acre. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
10-13C-4: APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
The approval procedure shall be the same as required under section
10-13-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13C-5: PLANS REQUIRED:
Preliminary plans of mobile home parks shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission. Said plans shall show the following information:
   A.   Proposed layout of the park.
   B.   Location and size of mobile home pad sites and other buildings and
structures.
   C.   Location and size of existing and proposed water, secondary irrigation
and sewer lines or septic systems, and other utilities.
   D.   Typical cross sections of roads.
   E.   Location and dimensions of curbs and sidewalks.
   F.   Drainage features, showing how the surface drainage will be handled.
   G.   Layout and locations of improvements of a typical mobile home space.
   H.   General planting plans showing the areas to be landscaped and the types
of plants and architectural features to be used.
   I.   Tabulation showing:
      1.   Total number of acres in the proposed development.
      2.   Number of mobile homes.
      3.   Number of mobile homes per acre.
      4.   Number of off-street parking spaces.
      5.   Percentage of the area to be used for off-street parking.
      6.   Percentage of area to be devoted to roadways.
      7.   Percentage of area to be devoted to parks, playgrounds and other
common facilities.
      8.   Any other data or information required by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13C-6: DESIGN STANDARDS AND CRITERIA:
   A.   Architectural Unity: There shall be architectural unity and harmony
within the development and with the surrounding area.
   B.   Grouping And Spacing: Grouping and spacing of pad sites and buildings
shall provide for a restful and uncrowded environment. Landscaped areas, rather
than off-street parking areas, shall be the dominant feature of the
development.
   C.   Park And Playground Areas: Not less than ten percent (10%) of the gross
area of the project shall be designated for parks and playgrounds for the use
of occupants. The land covered by vehicular roads and off-street parking and
the yards surrounding mobile homes, which constitute open space appurtenant to
the individual mobile home sites and area devoted to service buildings, shall
not be included in computing the required area for parks and playgrounds.
   D.   Water, Sewer: All mobile home buildings used for human occupancy when
completed shall be served by a water system and sewage disposal system, which
have been approved by the Town Health Authority.
   E.   Ownership: The mobile home park shall be in one (1) ownership and shall
remain in one (1) ownership.
   F.   Storage Area: A combined area of at least one hundred (100) square feet
for each mobile home space shall be provided for the storage of boats, campers,
etc. Said storage must be enclosed within a sight-obstructing fence of six feet
(6') to eight feet (8') in height.
   G.   Off-Street Parking: Off-street parking space shall be provided at the
rate of two (2) parking spaces per mobile home space contained within the park.
   H.   Lighting: At least two (2) foot-candles lighting shall be required
along the roadways.
   I.   Setback: All mobile homes shall be set back at least ten feet (10')
from all roadways which are part of the development and at least thirty feet
(30') from any public street.
   J.   Roadways: Roadways (curb to curb) must be adequate width to accommodate
anticipated traffic as follows:
      1.   Minor roadways: For two-way traffic where parking is allowed on only
one (1) side of the roadway, at least thirty feet (30') in width.
      2.   Collector and entrance roadways: At least thirty six feet (36') in
width.
   K.   Curbs: Roll type curbs must border the sides of street.
   L.   Privacy Landscaping: A strip of land at least fifteen feet (15') wide
surrounding the mobile home park shall be landscaped to afford privacy to the
development; provided, however, that a sight-obscuring fence six feet (6') to
eight feet (8') in height may be substituted for up to eight feet (8') of the
required landscaped strip.
   M.   Front Yard Fences, Walls: Fences and walls within the front yard shall
not exceed four feet (4') in height.
   N.   Distance To Other Homes: No mobile home or add-on shall be located
closer than fifteen feet (15') to the nearest portion of any other mobile home
or add-on, except when four (4) hour fire-resistive wall, having a height of at
least eight feet (8') separates the mobile home or add-on, in which cases the
distance apart may be reduced to ten feet (10').
   O.   Public Recreation Buildings: In addition to mobile homes, the
development may include a launderette, clubhouse and other non-profit or public
recreation buildings.
   P.   Skirting: All mobile homes shall be skirted around the entire structure
so as to conceal the space underneath.
   Q.   Road Surface: All roads shall be constructed and surfaced in accordance
with Town standards as directed.
   R.   Underground Utilities; Exceptions: All utilities shall be placed
underground, except for transformers and other necessary appurtenances.
   S.   Health Requirements: In addition to meeting the above requirements, all
mobile home parks shall also conform to current State Health Department
requirements for mobile home parks. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13C-7: IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The following improvements shall be installed in all developments. Said
improvements shall meet minimum Town standards and shall be completed within
one (1) year from the date of the final approval of the project by the Town
Council; except that, upon showing of good and sufficient cause, the Town
Council may authorize an extension of the time limit for a period up to six (6)
months. Financial assurances guaranteeing the construction of all required
improvements shall be required as a condition of approval. Said assurances
shall be in accordance with the provisions in chapter 15 of this title.
   A.   Streets, driveways and parking areas, which shall be graded, graveled
and hard surfaced.
   B.   Drainage and flood control structures and facilities.
   C.   Water and sewer mains, on-site and off-site, complying with the utility
requirements of the Town.
   D.   Fire hydrants.
   E.   Electric and telephone lines (which shall be placed underground).
   F.   Landscaping.
   G.   Sprinkling or other suitable irrigation systems.
   H.   Fences, walls and all other common areas, facilities, systems and
structures proposed for the development as shown on the final plans.
   I.   Recreation vehicle storage area.
   J.   Street lighting. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13C-8: REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:
The following documents shall be prepared and submitted by the developer for
each development:
   A.   Irrigation System: Evidence of satisfaction or requirements relating to
any irrigation systems.
   B.   Health Requirements: Written evidence from the Health Authority that
the proposed park complies with applicable Health Department requirements.
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-13C-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   License Required: Prerequisite to the operation of any mobile home park
shall be the obtaining of an annual license, which shall be issued only after
inspection by the Town Engineer or other designated representative of the Town.
It shall be unlawful to operate a mobile home park without first obtaining a
license. Said license shall be refused or revoked upon failure of the owner
and/or operator to maintain the park in accordance with the standards and
requirements as herein set forth.
   B.   One Home Per Space: Each space within a mobile home park shall be used
for only one (1) mobile home at the same time.
   C.   Term Of Rent Or Lease: No lot or space shall be rented or leased for a
period of less than thirty (30) days. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
CHAPTER 14
SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Intent
10-14-2: Plats Required; Recording
10-14-3: Approval Procedure
10-14-4: Documentation Requirements
10-14-5: Design Standards And Requirements
10-14-6: Subdivision Improvements
10-14-7: Costs And Charges
10-14-8: General Requirements
10-14-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is as follows:
   A.   To facilitate the orderly development of the Town.
   B.   To implement the Town Major Street Plan.
   C.   To facilitate the development of a safe and efficient street system.
   D.   To facilitate the orderly transfer of the ownership of building sites
in a manner consistent with State law.
   E.   To ensure the providing of adequate water, sewer, drainage, utilities
and other services to developing areas of the Town.
   F.   To establish the rights, duties and responsibilities of subdividers
with respect to the development of land within the Town. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
10-14-2: PLATS REQUIRED; RECORDING:
No person shall subdivide any tract of land within the incorporated limits of
the Town, nor shall any person sell, exchange, purchase or otherwise convey a
parcel of land which is part of a larger tract, if such sale or agreement would
have the effect of creating a subdivision, as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title, unless and until a final plat, prepared in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, shall have been first approved by the
Planning Commission and Town Council and recorded in the Office of the County
Recorder. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-14-3: APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Presubmission Conference: Any person wishing to subdivide land within
the Town shall secure from the Planning Commission or their designated
representative information pertaining to the requirements for subdivisions and
the Town plan of streets, parks, drainage, zoning and other Master Plan
requirements affecting the land to be subdivided.
   B.   Prepare And Submit Concept Plan:
      1.   The subdivider shall then prepare a Concept Plan and shall submit
seven (7) copies of the same to the Planning Commission not less than seven (7)
days prior to the next regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting. Said
plan shall be prepared in accordance with Town standards.
      2.   Where a subdivider owns or controls more land than he proposes to
submit for preliminary approval, the Planning Commission may require that a
Concept Plan for the larger area be submitted. Said plan shall indicate the
portion proposed to be submitted initially for preliminary approval and the
portion to be held for future submission.
   C.   Planning Commission Approval Of Concept Plan:
      1.   The Planning Commission shall review the Concept Plan and shall act
to:
         a.   Approve the plan;
         b.   Disapprove the plan;
         c.   Approve the plan subject to modification; or
         d.   Where considered necessary or desirable, act to table further
consideration of the plan.
      2.   Approval of the Concept Plan shall not be construed to constitute
approval of the subdivision, but shall be deemed as an expression of acceptance
of the basic concept and feasibility of the proposed subdivision, which the
subdivider may use as a guide in the preparation of the preliminary plan.
   D.   Prepare Preliminary Plan And Improvement Drawings: Upon approval of the
Concept Plan by the Planning Commission, the subdivider shall prepare a
preliminary plan of the subdivision and shall submit seven (7) copies of the
same to the Planning Commission not less than seven (7) days prior to the next
regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting. The preliminary plan shall be
prepared in accordance with the provisions of subsection 10-14-4B of this
chapter. The Concept Plan and preliminary plan may be submitted concurrently.
   E.   Planning Commission Approval Of Preliminary Plan:
      1.   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plan and shall
act to:
         a.   Approve the plan;
         b.   Disapprove the plan;
         c.   Approve the plan subject to modification; or
         d.   Where considered by the Planning Commission to be necessary or
desirable, act to table further consideration of the plan.
      2.   Approval by the Planning Commission shall be granted upon a finding
that:
         a.   All plans and other materials required for consideration have
been submitted in a form suitable for evaluation, and all preliminary plan
review and processing fees have been paid;
         b.   The plan conforms to the design standards for subdivisions;
         c.   The design adequately recognizes the natural and man caused
conditions on or in the vicinity of the proposed subdivision;
         d.   Each lot conforms to the requirements of the zone and will
adequately be serviced;
         e.   The arrangements of roads, lots, easements and other elements
will provide adequate circulation and access and will result in a healthy, safe
and attractive living environment;
         f.   The utility system serving the areas has sufficient capacity to
provide adequate utility service to the development;
         g.   The subdivision layout will be consistent with the major street
plan and other applicable elements of the major plan for the area. Where new
streets intersect with County or State roads or streets, permission must be
obtained from the proper authority on their letterhead.
      3.   The action of the Planning Commission shall be written on the face
of two (2) copies of the plan, one (1) of which shall be retained in the files
of the Planning Commission, and one (1) of which shall be returned to the
subdivider. If the plan is disapproved, the Planning Commission shall express
its reason therefor to the subdivider. Upon approval of the preliminary plan,
the Planning Commission shall be committed to grant approval of the final plat,
subject to full compliance with any conditions attached, unless, in the opinion
of the Planning Commission, the preliminary approval was given based on
inaccurate or incomplete representations, or changes have occurred in
conditions relating to the property which were not known or present at the time
preliminary approval was given, and which would result in a significant
detrimental effect to the public if the project were carried out as initially
presented. Approval of the preliminary plan shall remain valid for a period of
one (1) year. Said approval may be extended or reaffirmed by the Planning
Commission for a period not to exceed one (1) year, upon receipt of a written
request from the owner.
   F.   Prepare And Submit Final Plat, Engineering Drawings And Documents: Upon
approval of the preliminary plan by the Planning Commission, the subdivider
shall prepare the final plat, final engineering drawings and documents and
shall submit the same to the Planning Commission not less than seven (7) days
prior to the next regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting. The final
plat and other required drawings and documents shall include the materials set
forth in subsection 10-14-4C of this chapter and shall be prepared in
accordance with Town standards. Failure to submit the final plat and materials
in accordance with said standards shall be grounds for denial.
   G.   Planning Commission Action On Final Plat:
      1.   The Planning Commission shall review the final plat, final
engineering drawings and other required submissions, and shall act to:
         a.   Approve the plat;
         b.   Disapprove the plat;
         c.   Approve the plat subject to modifications; or
         d.   Where considered by the Planning Commission to be necessary,
table further consideration of the plat.
      2.   Upon approval by the Planning Commission, the Chairperson shall
approve and sign the plat and forward it to the Town Council with the
recommendation that the plat be approved and the proposed dedications accepted.
   H.   Subdivider Posts Performance Guarantee: Upon approval by the Planning
Commission, the subdivider shall proceed to post or make arrangements suitable
to the Town for posting a bond or other financial assurance guaranteeing
construction of the required improvements. Said performance guarantee shall be
in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of this title.
   I.   Town Council Action On Final Plat: Upon receipt of the final plat
bearing all required signatures, and also submission of evidence of ability to
satisfy the performance guarantee requirements, the Town Council shall consider
the plat and performance guarantee and shall act to approve or disapprove the
plat or approve it with modification. If disapproved, the Town Council shall
state its reason therefor to the subdivider. If modifications are required,
such modifications must first be referred to and accepted by the Planning
Commission. If approved, the plat shall be signed by the Town Council and
retained for recording. The signature of the Town Council on the final plat
shall constitute final approval.
   J.   Recording Of Final Plat: Upon approval of the final plat and
performance guarantee, compliance with any conditions attached to the approval
and receipt of the executed documents and all other outstanding submissions and
fees, the Town shall submit the plat for recording in the Office of the County
Recorder and the Town authorized representative may thereafter issue a building
permit for the construction of the subdivision improvements. Upon the recording
of the plat, the owner may thereafter proceed to convey title to the lots as
described by the plat.
   K.   Releases Of Performance Guarantees: All partial and final releases of
performance guarantees shall be approved by action of the Town in accordance
with the provision of section
10-15-3 or
10-15-4 of this title, as applicable. The granting of the final release by the
Town Council shall constitute the acceptance of the improvements by the Town.
   L.   Release Of Durability Retainer: At the conclusion of the durability
guarantee period and subject to compliance with the provisions of section
10-15-6 of this title, the Town Council shall authorize the release of the
improvements durability from any obligation with respect to the improvements.
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-14-4: DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Concept Plan: The Concept Plan shall consist of the following:
      1.   A plan of the entire project area drawn at a scale of not smaller
than one inch equals two hundred feet (1" = 200') and showing the general
layout of the proposed subdivision and its relationship to the adjacent
properties; the location of each proposed lot; the location, width and general
configuration of proposed roads in the subdivision, and their relationship to
the existing road system and major street plan; and major canals and water
sources in the vicinity.
      2.   A written verbal statement indicating the intent and manner for
complying with the improvements guarantee, any irrigation system and similar
requirements.
      3.   Evidence of payment of the subdivision application fee.
   B.   Preliminary Plan:
      1.   The preliminary plan shall consist of the following:
         a.   A layout plan, drawn at a scale of not less than one inch equals
one hundred feet (1" = 100') and showing the following:
            (1)   The boundary lines of the tract proposed to be subdivided;
            (2)   A contour map or appropriate intervals when required by the
Planning Commission;
            (3)   The location, width and other applicable dimensions of all
proposed lots, streets, easements, open space areas and indicating all
territory proposed for dedication to the Town;
            (4)   The location of all existing and proposed canals and major
ditches, bridges, culverts and drains;
            (5)   The size and location of all existing and proposed water
mains, fire hydrants, storm drainage, curb, gutter and sidewalk, improvements,
irrigation lines and ditches and appurtenant improvements of any other proposed
or required facilities;
            (6)   The proposed location of the building setback lines.
         b.   Preliminary engineering drawings showing the proposed cross
section for all streets within or adjacent to the subdivision, including the
placement of blacktop, curb, gutter, sidewalk, water lines and other street
improvements, the proposed road grades (when required by the Planning
Commission), irrigation pipes and ditches and the proposed engineering
treatment of any proposed canal or ditch piping and any culverts and bridges,
stormwater retention facilities or other significant engineering features.
         c.   A statement indicating the type of performance guarantee proposed
to be offered as security for construction of the required public improvements.
         d.   Evidence of ability to satisfy any irrigation system and water
rights conveyance requirements.
         e.   In areas not serviceable by the Stockton sewer system, a notice
of acceptability of the area to accommodate septic tanks is required as
evidenced by a letter from the Tooele County Health Department, when
applicable. Otherwise, all new subdivisions will be required to connect to the
Town sewer system.
         f.   EPA soil sample results.
         g.   Evidence of payment of all preliminary plan submission and
processing fees.
         h.   Any other materials of information required by the Planning
Commission.
      2.   Failure to submit the required material in accordance with the above
standards and requirements shall be grounds for denial.
   C.   Final Plat And Engineering Drawings:
      1.   The final plat and plans shall consist of the following:
         a.   The original final plat mylar prepared on the forms approved by
the County Recorder for use in the County.
         b.   One (1) duplicate mylar of the final plat, together with the
required number of paper copies.
         c.   Copies of the final engineering drawings.
         d.   Documents indicating full compliance with any irrigation system
and water rights conveyance requirements.
         e.   An itemized estimate of the cost of construction of all required
improvements. This estimate shall be used as the basis for setting the amount
of the performance guarantee.
         f.   Final copies of the performance guarantee documents.
         g.   A title report, covering the property within the final plat area,
to identify all interests in the property which have an effect on the title,
and to establish that the land proposed for subdivision is free of boundary
conflicts (when required by the Town Council).
         h.   Final copies of all required documentation, as applicable.
         i.   Evidence of payment of final plat checking and recording fees.
      2.   Failure to submit the above final plat materials shall be grounds
for denial. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-14-5: DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
The layout and design of all subdivision developments and the content of all
plats, engineering plans, documentation and other required submission should be
in accordance with the standards as contained herein and/or as may be adopted
by the Town pursuant to the provisions of subsection 10-14-8A of this chapter.
   A.   Streets And Roads:
      1.   General Criteria:
         a.   Subdivision Plans Consistent With Street Plan: Subdivision plans
shall be consistent with the Master Street Plan as adopted by the Town, as
follows:
            (1)   Collector Streets (Feeder): Where the area of a proposed
subdivision includes any collector class streets as shown on the Major Street
Plan, the subdivision plan shall incorporate such in the location shown on the
Street Plan and the approval of the final plat shall include the dedication of
the right- of-way and its improvements in accordance with the applicable Town
standards.
            (2)   Minor Streets (Local Service): Where the area of a proposed
subdivision includes any minor class streets, as shown on the Major Street
Plan, the subdivision plan shall provide for such street in the approximate
location shown on the Street Plan and the approval of the final plat shall
include the dedication of the right-of-way and its improvements in accordance
with the applicable Town standards. (Any proposed street that would intersect
with any composed street that would intersect with any County or State street
must have permission from them on their letterhead.)
            (3)   Deletion Or Realignment: No subdivision plan which proposes
the deletion or significant realignment of any street shown on the Major Street
Plan shall be given preliminary approval unless and until the Plan shall have
been amended in accordance with State law.
         b.   Relationship To Adjacent Streets: The proposed street system
shall properly align and be compatible with adjacent streets.
         c.   Access To Adjacent Properties: In order to facilitate the
development of an adequate and convenient circulation system within the Town
and to provide access for the logical development of adjacent properties, the
Town may, as a condition of approval, require the subdivision plan to include
one (1) or more temporary dead end streets (stub streets) which extend to the
boundary of the subdivision. All such stub streets shall be fully developed to
the boundary of the subdivision. Any plan for the subsequent development of the
adjacent property shall provide for the continuation of any such stub street.
      2.   Right-Of-Way Width: The minimum width of right-of-way for streets
shown on the Major Street Plan shall conform to the width as designated on the
Plan. The minimum right-of-way width for the streets not shown on the Plan
shall be as follows:
 
Class Of Street Right-Of-Way Width
Minor class     60 feet
Collector class 80 feet
 
      3.   Surfacing And Width Of Streets: All streets within and adjacent to
the subdivision shall be hard surfaced. The width of the hard surfacing and the
location and type of other required street improvements shall be in accordance
with applicable street cross section standards adopted by the Town Council.
      4.   System Design Standards For Streets And Roads:
         a.   Reverse Curves: Reverse curves shall have a tangent of at least
one hundred feet (100'), unless in the opinion of the Planning Commission such
is not necessary.
         b.   Street Intersection: Streets shall intersect each other as nearly
as possible at right angles. Minor streets shall approach the major or
collector streets at an angle of not less than eighty degrees (80°). Offset in
street alignment of more than fifteen feet (15') or less than one hundred
twenty feet (120') shall be prohibited.
         c.   Street Grades: The maximum grade of any street in the subdivision
shall be eight percent (8%). Where the observance of this standard is not
feasible, the Town Council, subject to the prior recommendation of the Planning
Commission, shall have the power to grant an exception when special pavement
surfaces and adequate leveling areas are installed and in the opinion of the
Town the best subdivision of the land is thereby secured.
         d.   Street Curves: Where the street lines within a block deflect from
each other at any one (1) point more than ten degrees (10°), there should be a
connecting curve. The radius of the curve for the inner street line should be
not less than three hundred fifty feet (350') for collector class streets, two
hundred fifty feet (250') for an important minor class street, and one hundred
feet (100') for minor streets.
         e.   Curbs: Where curbs are required, said curbs at intersections
shall be rounded with curbs having a minimum radius or fifteen feet (15') for
minor streets and twenty five feet (25') for collector streets. Property lines
at street intersections should be rounded with a curve where necessary to fit
the curb radius.
         f.   Street Names: New street names should not duplicate those already
existing. A street obviously a continuation of another already in existence
should bear the same name. Before the street is named, the proposed name must
be submitted to and approved by the Town.
         g.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs (dead end streets) shall be used only
where unusual conditions exist which make other designs undesirable. Each cul-
de-sac shall have a minimum right-of-way width of sixty feet (60') and must be
terminated by a turnaround of not less than one hundred feet (100') in
diameter. The maximum length of a cul-de-sac street shall be four hundred feet
(400'). Surface water must drain away from the turnaround, except that where
surface water cannot be drained away from the turnaround along the street due
to grade, necessary catch basins and drainage easements shall be provided.
         h.   Easements: Easements of not less than eight feet (8') on each
side of rear lot lines and side lines will be required where necessary for
poles, wire, conduits, sewers, gas and water mains, and other public utilities.
Easements of greater width may be required along property lines where necessary
for surface overflow or for the extension of main sewers or similar utilities.
   B.   Block Design Standards:
      1.   Length: The maximum length of blocks generally shall be eight
hundred feet (800'), and the minimum length of blocks shall be four hundred
feet (400'). In blocks over eight hundred feet (800') in length, the subdivider
may be required to dedicate a walkway through the block at approximately the
center of the block. Such walkways shall not be less than ten feet (10') in
width.
      2.   Width: The width of blocks generally shall be sufficient to allow
three (3) tiers of lots with lots being one hundred twenty feet (120') in
width.
      3.   Use: Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be
designed especially for such purposes with adequate space set aside for off-
street parking and delivery facilities.
   C.   Lot Design Standards:
      1.   Building Sites: The lot arrangement, design and shape shall be such
that lots will provide satisfactory and desirable sites for buildings, be
properly related to topography and conform to requirements set forth herein.
Lots shall not contain peculiarly shaped elongations solely to provide
necessary square footage, which would be unusable for normal purposes.
      2.   Conformance To Zoning Provisions: All lots shown on the subdivision
plat must conform to the minimum requirements of the zone in which the
subdivision is located.
      3.   Corner Lots: Corner lots shall have ten feet (10') extra width to
accommodate the additional setback requirements.
      4.   Angle Of Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be approximately at right
angles, or radial to the street line, except where topographic conditions make
it advisable to have side lot lines deflect at sharper angles.
      5.   Remnants Of Lots: All remnants of lots below minimum size left over
after subdividing a larger tract must be attached to adjacent lots rather than
allowed to remain as unusable parcels. Protection strips shall not be
permitted.
      6.   Multiple Ownership Of Lots: Where the land covered by a subdivision
includes two (2) or more parcels in separate ownership and the lot arrangement
is such that a property ownership divides one (1) or more lots, the land in
each lot so divided shall be transferred by deed to single ownership before
approval of the final plat, and such transfer recorded in the County Recorder's
Office before being certified to the Planning Commission by the subdivider or
the subdivision shall be considered as a joint project and the final plat shall
be signed by all affected property owners.
      7.   Water, Sewer, Irrigation: Each lot within the subdivision shall be
served by the Town water system through lines providing flow for both culinary
and fire purposes. Each lot within the subdivision shall be served by the Town
sewer system, except that the Town may authorize the development of a
subdivision project utilizing septic tanks or other individual disposal
facilities where it is determined that connection of the subdivision project to
the sewer system is not reasonably feasible. Each lot in the subdivision may be
served by an approved irrigation system.
      8.   Culinary Water And Irrigation Systems:
         a.   Culinary: All subdivision development applications shall dedicate
to the Town, as part of the development approval process, documented and
perfected water rights sufficient to service the water needs of the
development. All subdivision development must hire an Engineer to test their
water system to see if there will be enough pressure to service the water
system. All culinary system plans must be approved by the State before
construction and after construction. "Water rights sufficient to service the
water needs of the development" shall be defined, for residential development,
as 1.32 acre-feet per dwelling, assuming a twelve thousand (12,000) square foot
lot. This figure is based on State standards and Town historical usages of
0.675 acre-feet of water for indoor use, and 0.645 acre-feet of water for
outdoor use, the latter figure being subject by the Town Council or the Town
appointed Engineer for lot size variations and water conserving landscaping, or
as determined by State regulations.
         b.   Irrigation: Each lot in the subdivision may be served by an
approved irrigation system. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-14-6: SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Required; Specifications: The improvements set forth under subsection C
of this section shall be required to be installed for all areas shown on the
final plat. The required improvements shall meet minimum Town standards for
design and quality of materials and shall be installed in accordance with
minimum Town standards and specifications as provided in subsection 10-14-8A of
this chapter, as directed by the Town. The placement and design of required
improvements shall be shown on the preliminary plan.
   B.   Time Limit For Installation; Performance Guarantee:
      1.   Time Limit: The subdivider should install all improvements.
Improvements not in place prior to the approval of the final plat by the Town
Council have one (1) year from the date of final approval to be completed;
provided, however, that upon a showing of good and sufficient cause, the Town
Council may approve a longer period of time for completing construction of part
or all of the uncompleted improvements if performance guarantees/bonds are
funded and secure to complete the subdivision improvements.
      2.   Performance Guarantee: A performance guarantee securing the
installation of all required improvements which have not been completed and
accepted by the Town Council prior to final plat approval shall be required as
a condition of the final plat approval. The performance guarantee shall be in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 15 of this title.
   C.   List Of Required Improvements: The minimum improvements required for
subdivisions within the Town shall be as follows:
      1.   Streets And Roads: All streets, roads and vehicular travelways shall
be dedicated to the Town for use by the public and shall be improved in
conformance within the Town standards for pavement, sidewalks, curbs and
gutters, except that curb, gutter and sidewalk improvements may not be required
for subdivisions, or portions thereof, adjacent to streets which are owned by
the Town. The Planning Commission may recommend that the Town Council waive the
sidewalk, curb and gutter requirements for subdivisions in rural and
agricultural zones. Alternatives may be required, such as, but not limited to,
pathways and rolled gutters.
      2.   Culinary Water: Culinary water service shall be provided to the
subdivision and each lot therein, as follows:
         a.   Where the subdivision is not adjacent to an existing Town water
main, which is adequate to supply the development, the subdivider shall install
one (1) or more lines connecting the subdivision with the closest adequate Town
lines. Said off- site lines shall be considered as part of the required
subdivision improvements.
         b.   Both off-site and on-site water mains and appurtenant valve and
facilities shall be adequate to meet both culinary and fire flow requirements.
In no case shall the water mains be less than six inches (6") in diameter.
         c.   To the maximum extent possible, water mains shall be located in
the right-of-way lines of public streets in the locations specified by Town
standards. Said mains shall be extended to the boundary of the territory shown
in the final plat, including any stub streets required to provide for future
access to adjacent property.
         d.   Water service laterals shall be installed to each lot within the
subdivision. The lateral shall extend from the main line to the outer edge of
the right-of-way and shall include the installation of a meter box and meter
setter.
      3.   Fire Hydrants: All subdivisions shall have fire hydrants installed
in such a manner that no dwelling unit on a lot will be more than three hundred
feet (300') distance from the closest hydrant, measured along the street.
      4.   Sewers: Each lot within the subdivision shall be connected to and
served by the Town sewer system:
         a.   Where the subdivision is not adjacent to an existing/future Town
sewer main, which is adequate to serve the development, the subdivider shall
install one (1) or more mains connecting the subdivision with the closest most
adequate main. Any required off-site main shall be considered as part of the
required subdivision improvements to serve the development.
         b.   Both off-site and on-site sewer mains and appurtenant manholes
and facilities shall be adequate to meet both existing and future needs for the
area. In no case shall the sewer main be less than eight inches (8") in
diameter or as approved by the Town appointed engineer.
         c.   To the maximum extent possible, sewer mains shall be located in
the right-of-way lines of public streets in the locations specified by Town
standards. Said mains shall be extended to the boundary of the territory shown
in the final plat, including any stub streets required to provide for future
access to adjacent property.
         d.   Sewer service laterals shall be installed to each lot within the
subdivision. The lateral shall extend from its connection to the sewer main to
the outer edge of the right- of-way.
      5.   Irrigation Water System: Each lot within the subdivision may be
served either by the Town pressurized irrigation system or by an approved
irrigation system.
      6.   Electric And Telephone: Electric power and telephone lines shall be
provided to each lot. All lines and appurtenant facilities shall be located
underground, except when the subdivider can show that the placement underground
is not practically feasible.
      7.   Street Signs: Street signs shall be installed at all locations
indicated on the preliminary plan. The location and design of said signs shall
conform to minimum Town standards.
      8.   Storm Drains And Facilities: To the maximum extent possible, surface
water produced from the subdivision development shall be properly disposed of
within the boundaries of the subdivision through the use of sumps or other site
techniques. All sumps, culverts, drains and other facilities for collection and
disposal of surface water shall be installed as directed by the authorized Town
representative.
      9.   Environmental Hazards: Adverse environmental conditions must be
eliminated or accommodated as follows:
         a.   Soils:
            (1)   The placement of streets and building sites on areas of
unstable soil shall be prohibited.
            (2)   Soils with significant erosion hazards shall be protected.
Erosion control measures may be imposed as a condition of subdivision approval.
            (3)   Soil sampling to meet EPA regulations.
         b.   Flooding:
            (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need
to minimize flood damage and in accordance with the Town flood hazard
mitigation legislation as provided in title 11 of this Code.
            (2)   The subdivision layout shall make adequate provision for
natural drainage channels and floodways.
            (3)   All water, sewer and other utility systems and facilities
located in designated flood areas shall be designed and constructed to minimize
flood damage, including the infiltration of floodwater into the system, or
discharge of the system into the floodwaters.
         c.   Other Adverse Conditions: Where applicable, other adverse
environmental conditions must also be eliminated or adequately accommodated.
The additional conditions shall include, but not be limited to, seismic,
landslide and ground water.
      10.   Street Lights: Within subdivisions, the responsibility for
providing street lights lies with the developer of the subdivision, not the
Town. If a subdivision plan does not provide for street lights, it shall be so
written on the plat for that subdivision. If the future property owners desire
street lights, the cost of installing these improvements will be responsibility
of the property owners themselves and not the Town.
      11.   Permanent Survey Monuments: No less than two (2) permanent survey
monuments are required and the location of the monuments shall be shown on the
final plat. Also, all corners on the subdivision shall be marked. (Ord. 17-02,
3-16-2017)
10-14-7: COSTS AND CHARGES:
Costs and charges in connection with the planning and development of
subdivisions shall be borne by the subdivider. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-14-8: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Standards And Specifications: The Planning Commission shall prepare
standards and specifications for the content of subdivision plans and for the
layout, design and construction of subdivisions and required improvements. Said
standards and specifications shall be adopted by resolution of the Town
Council. All such requirements shall be considered the minimum standards, which
must be met and shall apply to all subdivisions.
   B.   Streets Dedicated: All streets shall be dedicated for public use and
shall conform to the minimum standards for width and improvement, except that
the Town Council may accept the dedication of partial width streets, provided:
      1.   The street is located at the border of the subdivision.
      2.   The width proposed for dedication shall be sufficient to accommodate
the minimum travelway and all utility systems as set forth in Town standards.
      3.   There are not existing conditions which would prevent the subsequent
development of the remaining portion of the street.
      4.   Construction of a partial width street at the proposed location will
not create unsafe or hazardous conditions.
   C.   Lots Abut On Public Street: Each lot in a subdivision shall abut on a
street dedicated to the Town by the subdivision plat, or an existing dedicated
public street, and is more than sixty feet (60') wide.
   D.   Amended Plats:
      1.   The entire plat or portion effected by the proposed change shall be
vacated in accordance with the procedure set forth in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-9a-608, as amended; and
      2.   A new plat of the affected area, showing the proposed changes, shall
have been approved by the Planning Commission and Town Council and filed in the
Office of the County Recorder in accordance with procedures and requirements of
this title.
   E.   Work Done By Engineer Or Surveyor: All engineering work must be done
by, or under direction of, a professional Engineer registered in the State. All
land survey work must be done by, or under the direction of, a Land Surveyor
registered in the State.
   F.   Drawing Of Record Required: Plans showing the location, size, grade and
depth of all water and sewer mains, valves, manholes and other subsurface
utility and service lines and facilities shall be required prior to the release
of performance guarantees.
   G.   Variances: The Appeal Authority may authorize variances to the strict
applications of the standards and specifications adopted pursuant to subsection
A of this section after recommendation from the Planning Commission. Such
variances will be granted only upon a finding that, because of topographic or
other unique physical condition, the standard appealed from:
      1.   Is unnecessary for the proper development of the subdivision and
will not be required in the future.
      2.   Would cause an unreasonable hardship if adhered to.
      3.   May be granted without destroying the intent of the standard of this
title.
      4.   Any variance so authorized shall be stated on the final plat.
   H.   Review Fees: See section
10-4-13 of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
ARTICLE A. MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
10-14A-1: Exemptions From Plat Requirements
10-14A-2: Layout Plan Required
10-14A-3: Lot Design Standards
10-14A-4: Costs And Charges
10-14A-5: Planning Commission Review And Approval
10-14A-6: Action By Town Council
10-14A-7: Improvements Required
10-14A-8: Deed Recorded
10-14A-1: EXEMPTIONS FROM PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
A person may submit to the County Recorder's Office for recording, a document
that subdivides property by metes and bounds into less than five (5) lots,
without a recording plat if:
   A.   The Planning Commission has reviewed the plans and has given the Town
Council its recommendation, whether favorable or not.
   B.   The document contains a certificate or written approval from the Town
Council with signatures from the Council, Planning Commission, Water
Department, Road Department and Fire Department.
   C.   The subdivision is not traversed by the mapped lines of a proposed
street as shown in the General Plan and does not require the dedication of any
land for street or other public purposes.
   D.   Each lot in the minor subdivision must meet the frontage, width and
area requirements of this title or has been granted a variance from those
requirements by the Appeal Authority.
   E.   Each lot in the minor subdivision must abut an improved, hard surfaced
street and have all utilities available. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-14A-2: LAYOUT PLAN REQUIRED:
Minor subdivision plans shall consist of the following:
   A.   Layout plan, drawn at a scale of not less than one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100') and showing the following:
      1.   The boundary lines of the tract proposed to be subdivided;
      2.   The location, width and other applicable dimensions of all proposed
lots;
      3.   The location of all existing and proposed canals and major ditches,
bridges, culverts and drains;
      4.   The size and location of all water mains, fire hydrants, storm
drains, curb, gutter, sidewalk, improvements, irrigation lines and ditches, and
appurtenant improvements of any other proposed or required facilities.
   B.   The subdivider shall also submit the following:
      1.   Notice of acceptability of the area to connect to the Town sewer
system;
      2.   Evidence of payment of all plan submission and processing fees;
      3.   A certified survey map showing the plan development;
      4.   Any other materials or information required by the Planning
Commission. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-14A-3: LOT DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Building Sites: The lot arrangement, design and shape shall be such
that lots will provide satisfactory and desirable sites for buildings, be
properly related to topography and conform to requirements set forth herein.
Lots shall not contain peculiarly shaped elongations solely to provide
necessary square footage, which would be unusable for normal purposes.
   B.   Conform To Zoning Provisions: All lots shown on the minor subdivision
plan must conform to the minimum requirements of the zone in which the
subdivision is located.
   C.   Corner Lots: Corner lots shall have ten feet (10') extra width to
accommodate the additional setback requirements.
   D.   Angle Of Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be approximately at right
angles, or radial to the street lines, except where topographic conditions make
it advisable to have side lot lines deflect at sharper angles.
   E.   Parts Of Lots: All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after
subdividing of a larger tract must be attached to adjacent lots rather than
allowed to remain as unusable parcels. Protection strips shall not be
permitted.
   F.   Water, Sewer, Irrigation, Utilities, Septic Systems: Each lot within
the minor subdivision shall be served by the Town water system through lines
providing flow for both culinary and fire purpose. Each lot within the minor
subdivision shall be served by the Town sewage collection system, except that
the Town may authorize the development of a minor subdivision project utilizing
septic tanks or other individual disposal facilities where it is determined
that connection of the minor subdivision to the sewer system is not reasonably
feasible. It may be required within the minor subdivision to have each lot
designed with a centralized sewage collection system capable of connecting to
the existing/future Town sewage system. Each lot in the subdivision may be
served by an approved irrigation system. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-14A-4: COSTS AND CHARGES:
Costs and charges in connection with the planning and development of minor
subdivisions shall be born by the subdivider. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-14A-5: PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Authority Of Planning Commission: The Planning Commission shall review
the Minor Subdivision Plan and shall act to:
      1.   Approve the plan;
      2.   Disapprove the plan;
      3.   Approve the plan subject to modification; or
      4.   Where considered by the Planning Commission to be necessary or
desirable, act to table further consideration of the plan.
   B.   Findings Required: Approval by the Planning Commission shall be granted
upon a finding that:
      1.   All plans and materials required for consideration, including a
certified survey map, have been submitted in a form suitable for evaluation and
processing fees have been paid;
      2.   The plan conforms to the design standards for a minor subdivision;
      3.   The design adequately recognizes the natural and man caused
conditions on or in the vicinity of the proposed minor subdivision;
      4.   Each lot conforms to the requirements of the zone and will
adequately be serviced;
      5.   The utility system serving the area has sufficient capacity to
provide adequate utility service to the minor subdivision;
      6.   All minor subdivision development applications shall dedicate to the
Town, as part of the development approval process, documented and perfected
water rights sufficient to service the water needs of the development. "Water
rights sufficient to service the water needs of the development" shall be
defined, for residential development, as 0.6 acre- feet per dwelling, assuming
a twelve thousand (12,000) square foot lot. This figure is based on State
standards and Town historical usages. The Town Council may decide to take the
monetary equivalent for the cost of water rights instead of actual water
rights.
   C.   Decision; Term Of Approval: The action of the Planning Commission shall
be written on the face of two (2) copies of the plan, one (1) of which shall be
retained in the file of the Planning Commission, and one (1) of which shall be
returned to the subdivider. If the plan is disapproved, the Planning Commission
shall express its reason therefor to the subdivider. Approval of the plan shall
remain valid for a period of one (1) year. Said approval may be extended or
reaffirmed by the Planning Commission for a period not to exceed one (1) year,
upon receipt of a written request from the owner. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-14A-6: ACTION BY TOWN COUNCIL:
Upon receipt of the Planning Commission recommendation, the Town Council shall
consider the plan and shall act to approve or disapprove, or approve with
modification. If disapproved, the Town Council shall state its reasons therefor
to the subdivider. If modifications are required, such modifications must first
be referred to and accepted by the Planning Commission. If approved, the plan
shall be signed by the Town Council, Planning Commission, Water Department and
Fire Department and recorded in the Office of the County Recorder. (Ord. 17-02,
3-16-2017)
10-14A-7: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Fire Hydrants: All minor subdivisions shall have fire hydrants
installed in such a manner that no dwelling unit on a lot will be more than
five hundred feet (500') distance from the closest hydrant, measured along the
street.
   B.   Electric Power, Telephone Lines: Electric power and telephone lines
shall be provided to each lot. All lines and appurtenant facilities shall be
located underground, except when the subdivider can show that the placement
underground is not practically feasible.
   C.   Storm Drains And Facilities: To the maximum extent possible, surface
water produced from the minor subdivision shall be properly disposed of within
the boundaries of the minor subdivision through the use of sumps or other site
techniques. All sumps, culverts, drains and other facilities for collection and
disposal of surface water shall be installed as directed by the authorized Town
representative.
   D.   Street Lights: Street lights may be required in areas that are not
already provided with such lighting.
   E.   Environmental Hazards: Adverse environmental conditions must be
eliminated or accommodated as follows:
      1.   Soils:
         a.   The placement of buildings and the destination of building sites
on areas of unstable soil shall be prohibited.
         b.   Soils with a significant erosion hazard shall be protected.
Renegotiation or other erosion control measures may be imposed as a condition
of the minor subdivision approval.
         c.   In areas of EPA clean up, special procedures must be used as set
forth in the EPA ordinance of the Town.
      2.   Flooding:
         a.   All minor subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need
to control its own floodwater and also be in accordance with the Town flood
hazard mitigation legislation as provided in title 11 of this Code.
         b.   The minor subdivision layout shall make adequate provision for
natural drainage channels, retention ponds and floodways.
         c.   All water, sewer and other utility systems and facilities located
in the designated flood areas shall be designed and constructed to minimize
flood damage, including the infiltration of floodwater into the system, or
discharge of the system into the floodwaters. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-14A-8: DEED RECORDED:
Upon approval of the plan and compliance with any conditions attached to the
approval and receipt of the executed documents and all other outstanding
submissions and fees, the subdivider shall submit the deeds for the plan for
recording in the Office of the County Recorder within one (1) year of the plan
approval. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
CHAPTER 15
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES
SECTION:
10-15-1: Application
10-15-2: Type And Amount Of Guarantee
10-15-3: Partial Release Permitted
10-15-4: Final Disposition And Release
10-15-5: Default
10-15-6: Durability Retainage
10-15-1: APPLICATION:
Wherever a performance guarantee is required under the terms of this title,
said guarantee shall be submitted in conformance with this chapter. (Ord. 17-
02, 3-16-2017)
10-15-2: TYPE AND AMOUNT OF GUARANTEE:
The performance guarantee shall be one (1) of the following:
   A.   Cash: A deposit of cash in a separate escrow account in an amount not
less than one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of
performing the work for which the guarantee is required. Said account shall be
made with a financial institution acceptable to the Town and shall be
established in a manner that any release therefor shall require the advance
written consent of the Town. Any interest derived from the account shall inure
to the benefit of the developer.
   B.   Performance Bond: A performance bond in an amount not less than one
hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of performing the work
for which the guarantee is required, as established by the Town.
   C.   Letter Of Credit: An irrevocable letter of credit from a financial
institution acceptable to the Town, in an amount not less than one hundred
twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of performing the work. The
letter of credit shall be established in such a manner that any release of
funds to the developer shall require the advance written consent of the Town.
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-15-3: PARTIAL RELEASE PERMITTED:
Where a guarantee is posted for the purposes of ensuring the timely
installation of required improvements in a subdivision, planned unit
development or similar project, the Town may authorize a release of a portion
of the guarantee in an amount commensurate with the proportion of improvements
completed. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-15-4: FINAL DISPOSITION AND RELEASE:
At the completion of the work, or not less than ten (10) days prior to the
release date of the bond or other assurance, the developer shall submit to the
Town one (1) copy of a Certificate of Completion. Following receipt of the
Certificate, the Town Engineer or authorized representative shall make a
preliminary inspection and shall submit a report to the Town Council setting
forth the conditions of such facilities. If the condition of said improvements
or activities for which the guarantee is required are found to be satisfactory,
and all liens are paid, the Town Council shall authorize release of the
remainder of the guarantee, except for that portion to be held as a durability
retainer. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-15-5: DEFAULT:
Where, in the opinion of the Town Council, a developer fails or neglects to
satisfactorily install the required improvements or make required corrections,
or to pay all liens in connection with said improvements, or otherwise fails in
carrying out the activity for which the performance guarantee was required, the
Town Council may, after a public hearing with due notice on the matter, declare
the performance guarantee forfeited and thereafter may install or cause the
required improvements to be installed using the proceeds from the guarantee to
defray the costs; provided, that the Town shall not be responsible for work
beyond the limits of the bond amount. Any funds remaining after completion of
the required improvements will be returned to the developer. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
10-15-6: DURABILITY RETAINAGE:
A retainage of not less than twenty five percent (25%) of the total amount of
the guarantee shall be retained by the Town for a period of not less than one
(1) year following the date of final acceptance of the improvements by the
Town. Such retainage shall be a guarantee of the durability of said
improvements. If, during one (1) year, the durability of said improvements are
found to be satisfactory, said retainage may be released following the
procedures outlined under section
10-15-4 of this chapter. If, however, during said period, the condition of
material or workmanship of the improvement or improvements fails or shows
unusual depreciation, or if it becomes evident that certain work was not
completed or that said improvements do not otherwise comply with accepted
standards of durability, said condition shall be corrected by the person giving
the performance guarantee. If the corrections are not made within a reasonable
time, the Town Council, in accordance with section
10-15-5 of this chapter, may declare such person in default and use the
retainage to defray the cost of any required work. At the conclusion of the
durability guarantee period, the retainage to defray the cost of any required
work may be released by the Town in accordance with the release procedure
outlined under section
10-15-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
CHAPTER 16
EXCAVATION AND DEVELOPMENT WITHIN JACOB SMELTER
SECTION:
10-16-1: Findings
10-16-2: Applicability
10-16-3: Definitions
10-16-4: Compliance Required
10-16-5: Permit Required
10-16-6: Application For Permit
10-16-7: Performance Standards
10-16-8: Soil Testing
10-16-9: Inspection And Maintenance Of Permanent Remedy
10-16-10: Appeals
10-16-11: Severability
10-16-1: FINDINGS:
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has identified and
designated an area known as the Jacob Smelter Tailing Site as being
contaminated with mining wastes containing high concentrations of lead and
arsenic, and has consequently placed such site on the EPA's National Priorities
List for clean up and remediation under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), 42 USC section 9601 et seq.
The EPA has determined that the concentration of lead and arsenic on the site
pose a potential health risk to humans, especially small children and pregnant
women. Also, the EPA has formulated and issued a remedy for clean up of the
site as published and set forth in a Record of Decision (ROD) dated July 29,
1999. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-16-2: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations shall apply to and govern any development or activity, which
may cause or contribute to the movement or disturbance of contaminated soil or
other material within the boundaries of the site as identified and designated
by the EPA, and as depicted on the official map as maintained in the office at
the Stockton Town Hall, 18 North Johnson Street, Stockton, UT 84071-0240.
Additional maps of the site shall be maintained in the Offices of the County
Clerk and Recorder, the State Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) and
Tooele County Health Department. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-16-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ACTIVITY: Any action occurring on, above or below the surface of the ground
within the boundaries of the site, which results or may result in a disturbance
of the permanent remedy applicable to the site.
CLEAN FILL: Topsoil or other fill material with lead concentration of two
hundred (200) mg/kg (parts per million (ppm)) or less.
CONTAMINATED SOIL OR MATERIALS: Soil or material containing lead concentration
greater than five hundred (500) mg/kg (ppm) or seventy (70) mg/kg (ppm)
arsenic.
DEVELOPMENT: Any construction or manmade change in the use or character of
land, including, but not limited to, building, grading, excavating, digging,
paving, drilling, demolition work or planting.
HARD SURFACE COVER: A nonpermeable or semipermeable barrier overlaying the
ground surface such as paving, asphalt, concrete, stone or wood, and including
building and other permanent structures.
PERMANENT REMEDY: The remedial action plan specified by the EPA pursuant to its
ROD for the site and any subsequently adopted amendments thereto.
PERMANENT REPOSITORY: A location on Jacob Smelter Operable Unit as designated
by the EPA to be utilized for the permanent storage of contaminated soil and
material originating within the boundaries of the site.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, corporation, association, company,
landowner, tenant, occupant, contractor, subcontractor or any public body or
political subdivision.
SITE: The area in the Town of Stockton boundaries designated by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as part of the Jacobs Smelter
Superfund Site pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, 42 USC section 9601 et seq., as amended, and as
depicted on the official map maintained by the Development Services Division
and signed by an official of the EPA.
UNCONTAMINATED SOIL OR MATERIAL: Soil or material containing concentration of
lead and arsenic less than two hundred (200) mg/kg (ppm) and seventy (70) mg/kg
(ppm) respectively for vegetable gardens and less than five hundred (500) mg/kg
(ppm) and seventy (70) mg/kg (ppm) arsenic for all other areas.
VEGETATIVE COVER: Plant life, including, but not limited to, grass, trees,
shrubs, vines and sod, planted or installed in such a manner so as to prevent
or minimize the exposure of ground soil. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017; amd. Ord.
2022-07, 12-8-2022)
10-16-4: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No person shall undertake or conduct or cause to undertake or conduct any
activity or development within the site without first complying with the
procedures and performance standards as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 17-02,
3-16-2017)
10-16-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall undertake or conduct any activities or development within the
site involving the excavation of more than one (1) cubic yard of soil without
first obtaining a permit from the Town. Activities or development involving
excavation of less than one (1) cubic yard of soil shall not require a permit,
but shall be subject to the requirements as set forth in section
10-16-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-16-6: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
All permits shall be applied for on a form provided by the Town. A fee shall be
assessed in accordance with the building permit fee schedule. Each applicant
for a permit shall, at a minimum, provide the following information:
   A.   The location and nature of the proposed activity or development.
   B.   The depth of any proposed excavation and volume of soil or material to
be excavated or disturbed.
   C.   The dimensions of all surface areas to be disturbed.
   D.   The volume of soil or other material to be backfilled on site.
   E.   The volume of soil or other material proposed to be disposed of off the
excavation site.
   F.   The duration of any exposure of soil or material excavated from below a
hard surface cover.
   G.   The applicant's plans for identification and segregation of clean fill
and uncontaminated soil or material from contaminated soil and material during
the period of activity or development.
   H.   The applicant's plans for backfilling with uncontaminated soil or
material.
   I.   The applicant's plans for ensuring compliance with the performance
standards as set forth in section
10-16-7 of this chapter.
   J.   Such additional information as determined by the Town and the Tooele
County Health Department utilizing the performance standards as set forth in
section
10-16-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-16-7: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The following performance standards shall be adhered to and applied to all
activity or development within the site so as to maintain and ensure the
integrity of the permanent remedy:
   A.   Any disturbed soil or material originating from below a hard surface
cover that is to be stored aboveground shall be securely contained and covered
with a durable non-permeable tarp so as to prevent the leaching of contaminated
material onto or into the surface soil. Where such storage is to extend beyond
fourteen (14) calendar days, stored soil or material excavated from below the
hard surface cover shall be securely fenced to a height of not less than six
feet (6') in addition to being covered as herein required. All soil or material
excavated from below a hard surface cover, unless as noted below, shall be
removed to the permanent repository within the Jacob Smelter Tailing Operable
Unit 1, upon approval by the Tooele County Health Department. Disturbed soil or
material need not be removed to the permanent repository if the Tooele County
Health Department finds that the contamination of the soil or material is less
than the five hundred (500) mg/kg (ppm) of total lead and less than seventy
(70) mg/kg (ppm) arsenic.
   B.   No contaminated soil or other material shall be removed, placed,
stored, transported or disposed of outside the boundaries of the site without
having first obtained any and all necessary State and/or Federal transportation
and disposal permits.
   C.   All activity or development shall be accompanied by dust suppression
measures, such as the application of water or other soil surfactant to minimize
the creation and release of dust and other particulate into the air. (Ord. 17-
02, 3-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 12-8-2022)
10-16-8: SOIL TESTING:
The Town or the Tooele County Health Department may require any person
undertaking to conduct activity or development within the site to test any soil
or material to establish its total lead (Pb) and arsenic (As) content for the
purpose of determining the application of any of the provisions of this
chapter. All testing shall utilize and adhere to protocols established or
approved by the EPA. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-16-9: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF PERMANENT REMEDY:
In addition to all other requirements as set forth in this chapter, the
following additional requirements shall apply to the use and maintenance of all
lands within the site, including, but not limited to, lawns, play areas and
parking lots:
   A.   All areas within the site shall be subject to inspection by the Town
and the Tooele County Health Department in order to enforce the provisions of
this chapter. Inspections shall be done with the consent of the property owner
or occupant. If consent is denied, inspection shall be obtained pursuant to a
warrant.
   B.   All unremediated areas under hard surface cover within the site shall
be maintained with a hard surface cover. Except as allowed pursuant to a duly
obtained permit issued under this chapter, no person shall alter any part of a
hard surface cover absent prior notice to the Town.
   C.   Any fence, wall or other barrier installed to limit or prevent access
to contaminated areas within the site shall be maintained in such a manner so
as to ensure its effectiveness against trespass or other intrusion. (Ord. 17-
02, 3-16-2017)
10-16-10: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person adversely affected or aggrieved by a decision of the Town or
the Tooele County Health Department made pursuant to this chapter may appeal
such decision to the Town Council. Said appeal shall be filed in writing, and
in triplicate, stating the reasons for the appeal with Tooele County Health
Department within ten (10) days following the date upon which the decision is
made.
   B.   The Tooele County Health Department shall notify the Town Council of
the date of review, in writing, at least seven (7) days preceding the date set
for hearing so that the record may be prepared for the hearing.
   C.   The Town Council, after proper review of the decision of the Tooele
County Health Department may affirm, reverse, alter or remand for further
review and consideration any action taken by the Town or the Tooele County
Health Department. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-16-11: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   If any provision or clause of this chapter or the application thereof
to any person or circumstances is held to be unconstitutional or otherwise
invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not
affect other sections, provisions, clauses or applications hereof which can be
implemented without the invalid provision, clause or application hereof. To
this end, the provisions and clauses of this chapter are declared to be
severable.
   B.   In accordance with section 96211(e) of title 42 of the United States
Code, this chapter shall not require or be construed to require the obtaining
of a permit by any agency, employee or contractor of the United States for that
portion of any removal or remedial action conducted entirely within the site
where such action is selected and carried out in compliance with the provisions
of CERCLA, 42 USC section 9601 et seq., and the permanent remedy.
   C.   This chapter shall not have any effect on existing litigation and shall
not operate as an abatement of any action or proceeding now pending under or by
virtue of the ordinance repealed or amended as herein provided, and the same
shall be construed and concluded under such prior ordinances.
   D.   This chapter shall become effective fifteen (15) days after its passage
and upon at least one (1) publication in a newspaper published and having
general circulation in Tooele County, except that the following provisions of
this chapter shall become effective and apply to any given parcel or land that
has been certified by the Remedial Project Manager for the EPA fully remediated
in accordance with the permanent remedy and written notice thereof has been
provided to the affected landowners. The Environmental Protection Agency's
written notice to the affected landowners shall cite the following:
      1.   Section
10-16-7, "Performance Standards", of this chapter;
      2.   Section
10-16-9, "Inspection And Maintenance Of Permanent Remedy", of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
CHAPTER 17
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-17-1: Title
10-17-2: Purpose And Scope
10-17-3: Enforcement
10-17-4: Definitions
10-17-5: Permit Required; Exemptions
10-17-6: Application For Permit
10-17-7: Fees For Permit And Examination
10-17-8: Placement Of Signs
10-17-9: Design Standards
10-17-10: Construction Standards
10-17-11: Maintenance Required
10-17-12: Inspections
10-17-13: Temporary Signs
10-17-14: Existing Signs
10-17-15: Appeals
10-17-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known as the SIGN CODE and may be cited as such, and
will be referred to herein as "this chapter". (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-17-2: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards to
safeguard life, health, property and public welfare by regulating and
controlling the design, quality of materials, construction, location,
electrification and maintenance of sign and sign structures not located within
a building.
   B.   A sign shall not be erected in a manner that would confuse or obstruct
the view of or interfere with official traffic signs, signals or devices.
   C.   The regulations of this chapter are not intended to permit a violation
of the provisions of other ordinances. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-17-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority: The Town Engineer is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Right Of Entry: When necessary to make an inspection to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Building Inspector or an authorized
representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a building
or upon a premises a condition or violation that makes the building or premises
unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Building Inspector or an authorized
representative may enter the building or premises at reasonable times to
inspect the same or perform the duties imposed upon the Building Inspector by
this chapter. If the building or premises is occupied, the Building Inspector
shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If the building or
premises is unoccupied, the Building Inspector shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the
building or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the Building
Inspector or the authorized representative shall have recourse to the remedies
provided by law to secure entry. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-17-4: DEFINITIONS:
APPROVED PLASTIC MATERIALS: See definition of plastic materials, approved.
BUILDING CODE: The adopted building code promulgated by the International
Conference of Building Officials, as adopted by the Town of Stockton.
COMBINATION SIGN: A sign incorporating any combination of the features of pole
and roof signs.
CURB LINE: The line at the face of the curb nearest to the street or roadway.
In the absence of a curb, the curb line shall be established by the Town
Engineer. See definition of legal setback line.
DISPLAY SURFACE: The area made available by the structure for the purpose of
displaying the advertising message.
ELECTRICAL SIGN: Any sign containing electrical wiring, but not including signs
illuminated by an exterior light source.
FIN SIGN: A sign that is supported wholly by a one-story building of an open
air business or by poles placed in the ground or partly by such a pole or poles
and partly by a building or structure.
GROUND SIGN: A sign that is supported by one (1) or more upright poles or
braces in or upon the ground other than a combination sign, fin sign or pole
sign, as defined in this section.
LEGAL SETBACK LINE: A line established by ordinance beyond which a building may
not be built. A legal setback line may be a property line.
NON-COMBUSTIBLE: As applied to building construction material, a material
which, in the form in which it is used, is one (1) of the following:
   A.   Material of which no part will ignite and burn when subjected to fire.
Any material conforming to adopted building code standards shall be considered
noncombustible within the meaning of this definition.
   B.   Material having a structural base of non- combustible material as
defined in subsection A1 of this definition, with a surfacing material not over
one-eighth inch (1/8") (3.2 mm) thick that has a flame spread rating of fifty
(50) or less. "Non-combustible" does not apply to surface finish materials.
Materials required to be non-combustible for reduced clearance to flues,
heating appliances or other sources of high temperature shall refer to material
conforming to subsection A1 of this definition. No material shall be classed as
non-combustible that is subject to increase in combustibility or flame spread
rating beyond the limits herein established, through the effects of age,
moisture or other atmospheric condition. Flame spread rating, as used herein,
refers to rating obtained according to tests conducted as specified in the
adopted building code standards.
NON-STRUCTURAL TRIM: The molding, battens, caps, nailing strips, latticing,
cutouts or letters and walkways that are attached to the sign structure.
PLASTIC MATERIALS, APPROVED: Other than foam plastics, are those having a self-
ignition temperature of six hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (650°F) (343.3°C)
or greater as determined in accordance with the adopted building code standards
and a smoke density rating not greater than four hundred fifty (450) when
tested in accordance with the adopted building code standards in the way
intended for use, or a smoke density rating not greater than seventy five (75)
when tested in accordance with the adopted building code standards in the
thickness intended for use. Approved plastics shall be classified as either CC1
or CC2 in accordance with the adopted building code standards. See also the
adopted building code, definition of "foam plastic insulation".
POLE SIGN: A sign wholly supported by a sign structure in the ground.
PORTABLE DISPLAY SURFACE: A display surface temporarily fixed to a standardized
advertising structure that is regularly moved from structure to structure at
periodic intervals.
ROOF SIGN: A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet of a building or
structure.
SIGN: Any medium, including its structure and component parts, that is used or
intended to be used to attract attention to the subject matter or advertising
purposes other than paint on the surface of a building.
SIGN STRUCTURE: Any structure that supports or is capable of supporting a sign,
as defined in this section. A sign structure may be a single pole and may or
may not be an integral part of the building.
STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any banner, pendant, valance or advertising display constructed
of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard or other light materials,
with or without frames, intended to be displayed for a limited period of time
only.
WALL SIGN: Any sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building or
structure, with the exposed face of the sign in a plane parallel to the plane
of said wall. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-17-5: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: A sign shall not hereafter be erected, reerected,
constructed, altered or maintained, except as provided by this chapter and
after a permit has been issued by the Building Inspector. A separate permit
shall be required for a sign or signs for each business entity, and a separate
permit shall be required for each group of signs on a single supporting
structure. Additionally, electrical permits shall be obtained for electric
signs. Any signs not addressed herein shall be prohibited.
   B.   Exemptions: A permit is not required for the following signs. These
exemptions shall not be construed as relieving the owner of the sign from the
responsibility for its erection, maintenance and compliance with the provisions
of this chapter or other laws or ordinances regulating signs.
      1.   Painting, repainting or cleaning of an advertising structure or
changing the advertising copy or message thereon shall not be considered an
erection or alteration that requires a sign permit, unless a structural change
is made. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-17-6: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for a sign permit shall be made in writing on forms furnished by
the Building Department. The application shall contain the location by street
number of the proposed sign structure, as well as the name and address of the
owner and the sign contractor or erector. The Planning Commission will require
the filing of plans or other pertinent information when such information is
necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter. Standard plans may be filed
with the Building Department. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-17-7: FEES FOR PERMIT AND EXAMINATION:
A sign permit fee and a plans examination fee shall be paid in accordance with
the schedule established by the Town Council. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-17-8: PLACEMENT OF SIGNS:
All signs shall be placed in accordance with the following standards:
   A.   Advertising Signs: All advertising signs must be kept on the premises
of the business doing the advertising.
   B.   Campaign Signs: Campaign signs will not be permitted on public property
and must be on private property only with the property owner's approval.
Campaign signs cannot be put up any sooner than sixty (60) days before the
election and must be removed within thirty (30) days after the election.
   C.   Off Premises Direction Signs: All off premises directional signs are
prohibited, except on Town provided signposts. Signs existing at the time of
passage of this chapter shall be removed. New signs may be posted at the
applicable place on the Town provided signposts or in other appropriate
approved areas with the approval of the Planning Commission and the Town
Council, when application is received and approved by the Planning Commission.
Pole signs, snipe signs, billboards and other such off premises signs are
prohibited from all areas of Town.
   D.   Projection: No sign or sign structure shall project over any public
sidewalk, street or area.
   E.   Approval Required: All signs, except campaign signs, must be approved
through the Planning Commission.
   F.   Number Permitted: Commercial monument, wall or roof signs are limited
to one (1) per business, unless appropriate reasons for a secondary sign are
submitted and approved by the Planning Commission.
   G.   Size Of Wall Signs: Wall signs may not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of
the wall space.
   H.   Intersections: No sign more than three feet (3') in height above the
top back of the curb shall be erected at any intersection for vehicular traffic
within a triangular area formed by the intersection of straight lines extended
from the back of the curb or future curb and a line connecting them at points
forty feet (40') from the intersection of the lines. Monument signs may be
erected in the above mentioned area if they are less than three feet (3') above
the curb grade to the top of the sign.
   I.   Temporary Signs: For temporary signs, see section
10-17-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-17-9: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Signs and sign structures shall be designed and constructed to
resist wind and seismic forces as specified in this section. Bracing systems
shall be designed and constructed to transfer lateral forces to the
foundations. For signs supported on buildings, the dead and lateral loads shall
be transmitted to the ground in a manner so as to avoid overstressing the
elements of the structural frame.
      2.   The overturning moment produced by lateral forces shall not exceed
two-thirds (2/3) of the dead load resisting moment. Uplift due to overturning
shall be resisted by proper anchorage to the ground or to the structural frame
of the building. The weight of earth superimposed over footings may be used in
determining the dead load resisting moment. Such earth shall be carefully
placed and thoroughly compacted.
   B.   Wind Loads: Signs and sign structures shall be designed and constructed
to resist wind forces as specified in the adopted building code.
   C.   Seismic Loads: Signs and sign structures shall be designed and
constructed to resist seismic forces as specified in the adopted building code.
   D.   Combined Loads: Wind and seismic loads need not be combined in the
design of signs or sign structures, only the load producing the larger stress
need be used. Vertical design loads, except roof live loads, shall be assumed
to be acting simultaneously with wind or seismic loads.
   E.   Allowable Stresses: The design of wood, concrete, steel or aluminum
members shall conform to the requirements of the adopted building code. Loads,
both vertical and horizontal, exerted on the soil shall not produce stresses
exceeding those specified in the adopted building code. The working stresses of
wire rope and its fastenings shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the
ultimate strength of the rope or fasteners. Working stresses for wind or
seismic loads combined with dead loads may be increased as specified in the
adopted building code. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-17-10: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   General: Supports for signs or sign structures shall be placed in or
upon private property and shall be securely built, constructed and erected in
conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Standards Of Quality: The adopted building code standards shall be
followed for steel, smoke density, ignition properties and classification of
plastics.
   C.   Materials: Materials utilized for signs and sign structures shall be of
the quality and grade as specified for buildings in the adopted building code.
In signs and sign structures, the materials and details of construction shall,
in the absence of specified requirements, conform with the following:
      1.   Structural steel shall conform with the adopted building code
standards. Secondary members in contact with or directly supporting the display
surface may be formed of light gauge steel, provided such members are designed
in accordance with the specifications of the design of cold formed steel as
specified in the adopted building code and, in addition, shall be galvanized.
Secondary members, when formed integrally with the display surface, shall not
be less than 0.024 inch (0.61 mm) thick. When not formed integrally with the
display surface, the minimum thickness of the secondary members shall be 0.10
inch (2.5 mm). The minimum thickness of hot rolled steel members furnishing
structural support for signs shall be one-fourth inch (1/4") (6.4 mm), except
that, if galvanized, such members shall not be less than one-eighth inch (1/8")
(3.2 mm) thick. Steel pipes shall conform to building code standards. Steel
members may be connected with one (1) galvanized bolt, provided the connection
is adequate to transfer the load to supporting members.
      2.   Anchors and supports of wood embedded in the soil, or within six
inches (6") (15.2 mm) of the soil, shall be all hard wood of a durable species
or shall be pressure treated with an approved preservative. Such members shall
be marked or branded by an approved agency.
   D.   Restrictions On Combustible Materials: Ground signs may be constructed
of any material meeting the requirements of this chapter. Combination signs,
roof signs and wall signs shall be constructed of non-combustible materials,
except as provided in this section. Combustible materials, other than approved
plastics, shall not be used in the construction of electric signs. Roof signs
with a maximum surface area of fifty (50) square feet and a maximum height of
five feet (5') may be constructed of combustible materials on roofs of any type
of construction. Non-electric wall signs may be constructed of unprotected
combustible materials on walls permitted to be of unprotected combustible
construction.
   E.   Non-Structural Trim: Non-structural trim and portable display surfaces
may be of wood, metal, approved plastics or a combination thereof.
   F.   Anchors And Supports:
      1.   Members supporting unbraced signs shall be so proportioned that the
bearing loads imposed on the soil in either the horizontal or vertical
direction shall not exceed the safe values. Braced ground signs shall be
anchored to resist specified wind or seismic loads acting in any direction.
Anchors and supports shall be designed for safe bearing loads on the soil and
for an effective resistance to pullout amounting to a force twenty five percent
(25%) greater than the required resistance to overturning. Anchors and supports
shall penetrate to a depth belowground greater than that of the frost line.
      2.   Portable ground signs supported by frames or posts rigidly attached
to the base shall be proportioned so that the weight and size of the base will
be adequate to resist the wind loads specified in this chapter.
      3.   Signs attached to masonry, concrete or steel shall be safely and
securely fastened by means of metal anchors, bolts or approved expansion screws
of sufficient size and anchorage to safely support the loads applied.
      4.   Wooden blocks or plugs or anchors with wood used in connection with
screws or nails shall not be considered to provide anchorage, except for
blocks, plugs or anchors on signs attached to wood framing.
      5.   The anchorage or support of a sign shall not be connected to or
supported by an unbraced parapet wall, unless the wall is designed in
accordance with the requirements for parapet walls specified for seismic zones
in the adopted building code.
   G.   Display Surfaces: Display surfaces of signs may be made of metal, glass
or approved plastics. Glass thickness and area limitations shall be as set
forth in the adopted building code. Sections of approved plastics on wall signs
shall not exceed two hundred twenty five (225) square feet in area unless
approved by the Building Inspector. Sections of approved plastics on wall signs
shall be separated three feet (3') laterally and six feet (6') vertically by
the required exterior wall construction unless approved by the Building
Inspector.
   H.   Approved Plastics: Substantiating data shall be submitted to the
Building Inspector to justify the proposed use of plastic materials. If it is
determined that the evidence submitted is satisfactory for the use intended,
the use may be approved. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-17-11: MAINTENANCE REQUIRED:
Signs and sign support structures, together with their supports, braces, guys
and anchors, shall be kept in repair and in proper state of preservation. The
display surfaces of signs shall be kept neatly painted or posted at all times.
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-17-12: INSPECTIONS:
Signs for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by the
Building Inspector, except those signs being placed on the Town designated sign
board. Footing inspections may be required by the Building Inspector for signs
having footing. Signs containing electrical wiring shall be subject to the
provision of the Electrical Code, and the electrical components used shall bear
the label of an approved agency. The Building Inspector may order the removal
of a sign that is not maintained in accordance with the provisions of section
10-17-9 of this chapter. Signs may be reinspected at the discretion of the
Building Inspector. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-17-13: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   A.   General: Temporary signs shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet
in area. Temporary signs of rigid material shall not exceed twenty four (24)
square feet in area, or six feet (6') in height, nor shall any such sign be
fastened to the ground. Temporary signs may remain in place for a period not to
exceed sixty (60) days.
   B.   Cloth Signs: Temporary cloth signs shall be supported and attached with
wire rope of three-eighths inch (3/8") minimum diameter. Strings, fiber ropes
or wood slats shall not be employed for support or anchorage purposes. Cloth
signs and panels shall be perforated over at least ten percent (10%) of their
area to reduce wind resistance. Cloth signs may extend over public property
with the approval of the Town Council. Cloth signs that extend over a public
street shall maintain a minimum clearance of twenty feet (20').
   C.   Other Type Signs: Temporary signs, other than cloth, when eight feet
(8') or more above the ground may not project over public property or beyond
the legal setback line unless approved by the Town Council. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-
2017)
10-17-14: EXISTING SIGNS:
Any existing signs shall not be considered to be "grandfathered", but shall be
removed by the owner or the Town official and new ones erected or installed in
accordance with this chapter, unless other provisions are made by the Town
Council to leave the sign as it is. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-17-15: APPEALS:
In order to provide for reasonable interpretation of the provisions of this
chapter, the Appeal Authority is designated to hear disputes after the findings
have been determined by the Planning Commission. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
CHAPTER 18
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-18-1: Intent
10-18-2: Amendments Permitted
10-18-3: Procedure For Amendments
10-18-1: INTENT:
All amendments to this title shall be made in accordance with the Comprehensive
Plan of Land Use. It is hereby declared to be public policy that this title
shall not be amended unless it can be shown that changed or changing conditions
make the proposed amendment reasonably necessary to the promotion of the
purposes of this title. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-18-2: AMENDMENTS PERMITTED:
This title and the zoning map adopted as a part thereof, may be amended from
time to time by the Town Council, but all proposed amendments must first be
submitted to the Planning Commission for its recommendation. The procedure to
be followed in amending this title and map shall be as set forth in this
chapter. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
10-18-3: PROCEDURE FOR AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Written Petition; Fee: Any person seeking an amendment of this title or
zoning map shall submit to the Planning Commission a written petition
designating the change desired and the reasons therefor, and shall pay a non-
refundable filing fee in an amount established by resolution of the Town
Council.
   B.   Amendments By Town: Amendments to this title and map may also be
initiated by action of the Planning Commission or upon request of the Town
Council.
   C.   Recommendation Of Planning Commission; Time Limit:
      1.   Upon receipt of the petition, the Planning Commission shall consider
the request and shall submit its recommendations with respect thereto to the
Town Council.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall submit its recommendations to the Town
Council within thirty (30) days from the date of the next regularly scheduled
meeting occurring after receipt of the request. Failure of the Planning
Commission to submit its recommendations to the Town Council within said thirty
(30) day period shall be deemed to constitute a recommendation of approval,
unless a longer period is granted by the petitioner.
   D.   Public Meeting, Hearing:
      1.   The Town shall follow the procedures specified in Utah Code
Annotated section 10-9a-205 for public meeting and hearing notice requirements.
      2.   No material change in or departure from the amendment as recommended
by the Planning Commission shall be made after the hearing, unless such
proposed change of departure shall have been first submitted to the Planning
Commission for its consideration and recommendations with respect thereto.
(Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
   E.   Amendments Adopted By Ordinance: All amendments to this title and map
shall be adopted, published or posted and recorded in accordance with the
applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-503. (Ord. 17-02, 3-
16-2017; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 19
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
10-19-1: Purpose And Definitions
10-19-2: Application
10-19-3: Review Of Application
10-19-4: Notice Of Public Hearing
10-19-5: Amendment Of Conditional Use
10-19-6: Planning Commission Action
10-19-7: Findings Of Fact
10-19-8: Guidelines For Conditions
10-19-9: Time Limit
10-19-10: Revocation
10-19-11: Appeal Procedure
10-19-12: Conditions Fulfilled; Enforcement
10-19-1: PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for
certain land uses listed in each zone as conditional uses.
   B.   Standards, Criteria: A Land Use Authority shall approve a conditional
use permit if reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be imposed, to
mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in
accordance with applicable standards and criteria.
   C.   Definitions: As used herein the terms below shall be defined as
follows:
    CONDITIONAL USE: A land use that, because of its unique characteristics or
potential impact on the Town, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may
not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain conditions
are required that mitigate the detrimental impacts.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A permit issued by the Town outlining the
requirements of approval for a conditional use and including written
conditions, as well as final, approved development plans, if applicable. (Ord.
2019-01, 2-14-2019)
10-19-2: APPLICATION:
   A.   Information Required: Application for a conditional use permit shall be
made upon forms provided by the Town. The application shall be signed by the
property owner or his authorized agent. The completed application shall be
filed with the Town Clerk and shall be accompanied by the following:
      1.   A sufficient number of copies, as determined by the Town Clerk, in
order to provide the Town and other agencies with the information needed to
evaluate the application.
      2.   A fee as specified by resolution or in the current consolidated fee
schedule.
      3.   The applicant shall provide to the Town Clerk the names and
addresses of all property owners, as contained in the current records of the
Tooele County Recorder, within a three hundred foot (300') radius of the
subject property measured from the boundary of the proposed conditional use as
shown on the development plan.
   B.   Planning Commission Agenda: After all the information listed in this
section is received by the Town Clerk, the matter shall be placed on a Planning
Commission agenda. (Ord. 2019-01, 2-14-2019)
10-19-3: REVIEW OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Departments, Agencies: All documents required to be submitted with the
application shall be delivered by the applicant to those departments and
entities designated by the Town Clerk, which may include, but not be limited
to, the following:
      1.   Public Works Department;
      2.   Town Engineer;
      3.   Fire Department;
      4.   Utah Department of Transportation;
      5.   Dominion Energy Company;
      6.   Rocky Mountain Power;
      7.   Any local or special district in which the subject property is
located;
      8.   Any other agency which will provide public or private facilities and
services to the site; and
      9.   Any other department designated by the Town Clerk.
   B.   Return To Town Clerk: All information and comments from these various
departments and entities should be returned to the Town Clerk.
   C.   Town Clerk Review: The Town Clerk shall review each application for
conformance to the standards outlined in this chapter; for conformance with the
General Plan and all applicable Town ordinances; for conformance with good
planning practices; for environmental impacts which may be associated with the
design; and shall present its recommendations to the Planning Commission.
   D.   Public Works Review: The Public Works Department shall review and make
comments concerning flood control requirements; engineering requirements for
street widths, grades and alignments; whether the proposed public improvements
conform to good engineering practices; the requirements of all applicable
ordinances; and shall be responsible for the approval and inspection of all
public improvements. (Ord. 2019-01, 2-14-2019)
10-19-4: NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Required: The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on all
conditional use applications. Notice of public hearing shall be given as
required by the open and public meetings provisions of Utah Code Annotated
title 52, chapter 4.
   B.   Additional Notice Requirements: In order to make residents of the Town
more aware of conditional use hearings, particularly those residences or
businesses which surround the land upon which the conditional use is proposed
to be located, additional notice shall be given as follows:
      1.   The Town Clerk shall, prior to the hearing, mail notices of the
public hearing to the owners of real property as shown on the last assessment
rolls, within a three hundred foot (300') radius of the subject property.
      2.   The Town Clerk shall post a notice of the public hearing on the
subject property.
      3.   The Town Clerk shall post a notice of hearing on the Town website.
   C.   Intent: The notice provisions of this section are not intended to
subject the Town to a greater notice requirement than required by Federal or
State law. Failure of any person to receive notice shall not invalidate any
Planning Commission decision and shall not be a basis for appeal of any
Planning Commission decision. (Ord. 2019-01, 2-14-2019)
10-19-5: AMENDMENT OF CONDITIONAL USE:
Once granted, a conditional use shall not be enlarged, changed, extended,
increased in intensity or relocated unless a new conditional use application is
made and approved by the Planning Commission as provided below:
   A.   Requirements: The Planning Commission may consider, approve with
modifications or disapprove amendments to a conditional use permit where the
following requirements are met:
      1.   The proposed modification or amendment complies with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
      2.   The applicant has complied with all provisions of the conditional
use permit previously issued.
      3.   Reasonable conditions may be attached, where and to the extent that
the Planning Commission finds that the imposition of the conditions will
directly mitigate or eliminate some aspect of the proposed amendment that
violate the intent and requirements of this chapter. Impacts must be of the
magnitude that without the mitigation or elimination thereof, the amendment to
the conditional use could not be granted.
   B.   Appeal: All decisions of the Planning Commission regarding conditional
use permits may be appealed to the Hearing Officer as provided in this title.
(Ord. 2019-01, 2-14-2019)
10-19-6: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed, or
can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards and criteria. (Ord.
2019-01, 2-14-2019)
10-19-7: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   Prior to approving or denying a conditional use permit application, the
Planning Commission shall make, in the business meeting at which the public
hearing is conducted or the permit is approved or denied, a finding of the
following facts:
      1.   The reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use
upon adjacent and nearby persons and properties;
      2.   The evidence identified regarding the identified reasonably
anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use;
      3.   The reasonable conditions imposed, as part of the conditional use
permit approval, intended to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
effects of the proposed use;
      4.   The reasons why the imposed conditions are anticipated or hoped to
mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use;
and,
      5.   The evidence, if any, identified regarding the ability of the
imposed conditions to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects
of the proposed use. (Ord. 2019-01, 2-14-2019)
10-19-8: GUIDELINES FOR CONDITIONS:
   A.   Guidelines:
      1.   Applicants for conditional use permits shall satisfy all the
requirements of this Code. The Planning Commission may establish all reasonable
conditions it deems necessary to protect the health, safety, and general
welfare of the community. In addition, the Planning Commission may impose
conditions regarding the following:
         a.   Conditions relating to safety for persons and property:
            (1)   Building elevations and grading plans which will prevent or
minimize flood water damage, where property may be subject to flooding; for
example, down-sloping driveways;
            (2)   The relocation, covering, or fencing of irrigation ditches,
drainage channels, and other potential dangers existing on or adjacent to the
property;
            (3)   Increased setback distances from lot lines;
            (4)   Design, construction, and location of structures, buildings,
and facilities in relation to any earthquake fault or other seismic hazard,
which may exist on or near the property, and limitations or restrictions to use
or location of use due to site conditions, including but not limited to
floodplains or landslide areas that may exist outside of the Sensitive Area
Overlay areas;
            (5)   The arrangement and dimensions of truck loading and unloading
facilities;
            (6)   The construction of curbs, gutters, drainage culverts,
sidewalks, streets, fire hydrants, and street lighting;
            (7)   Limits on time of day for the conduct of specified
activities, or the absolute length of time of the proposed use; for example,
commercial and industrial uses within two hundred fifty feet (250') of a
Residential Zoning District not operating between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M.; and,
            (8)   Wind energy conversion systems.
         b.   Conditions relating to health and sanitation:
            (1)   The sufficiency of water to serve the proposed land use and a
water delivery system to be installed according to standards adopted by the
City;
            (2)   A wastewater disposal system approved by the Tooele County
Health Department according to standards adopted by the City;
            (3)   Solid waste disposal receptacle enclosures constructed
according to standards adopted by the City; and,
            (4)   Construction of water mains, sewer mains, and drainage
facilities serving the proposed use, in sizes necessary to protect existing
utility users in the district and to provide for orderly development of land in
the City.
         c.   Conditions relating to environmental concerns:
            (1)   Areas of sensitivity or vulnerability due to soil
capabilities, wildlife, and plant life;
            (2)   Processes for the control, elimination, or prevention of
land, water, or air pollution, the prevention of soil erosion, and the control
of objectionable odors and noise;
            (3)   The planting of ground cover or other surfacing to prevent
dust and erosion;
            (4)   The restructuring and revegetation of the land when the use
involves cutting or filling the land and where such land would be adversely
affected if not restructured or revegetated.
         d.   Conditions relating to compliance with the purposes and
regulations of general plans and zoning districts:
            (1)   Conditional uses being located only on lots fronting arterial
or collector streets within the district;
            (2)   The removal of nonconforming, noncompliant, nuisance, or
unsafe structures, debris, or plant materials;
            (3)   The screening of yards or other areas as protection from
other land uses and activities;
            (4)   Landscaping in addition to that which may be required in
other chapters of this Code, to ensure protection from neighboring land uses;
            (5)   The location, height, lighting, and materials used for the
construction of structures to ensure protection of neighboring land uses
specifically if the use abuts a Residential Zoning District;
            (6)   The location, height, and materials of walls, fences, hedges,
and screen plantings to ensure protection of adjacent development, or to
conceal storage areas, utility installations, or other accessory features or
structures;
            (7)   The relocation of proposed or existing structures as
necessary to provide for future streets on the official street map, sight
distances for general safety, groundwater control, or similar concerns;
            (8)   The construction of recreational facilities necessary to
satisfy the needs of the conditional use;
            (9)   Increased setback distances from lot lines;
            (10)   Decreasing the intensity of land uses to avoid nuisances or
other detrimental effects; and,
            (11)   Improvements which serve the property in question and which
may compensate in part or in whole for possible detrimental effects to the
district from the proposed conditional use.
         e.   Conditions relating to performance and administration:
            (1)   Bonding or other valuable assurance in favor of the Town in
an amount to be determined by the Town may be required for improvements or
guarantees of construction relating to the conditional use permit. (Ord. 2019-
01, 2-14-2019)
10-19-9: TIME LIMIT:
   A.   Specified: Within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date the
Planning Commission hears and approves a conditional use permit application,
the applicant shall substantially comply with all the conditions of the
conditional use permit approval. Substantial compliance shall be demonstrated
by obtaining a current building permit and commencing construction. For the
purpose of this section, "commencement of construction" shall mean completion
of the foundation for at least one principal building. If construction is not
proposed as an element of the conditional use, a business license shall be
obtained to satisfy this requirement. Prior to the issuance of any building
permit or business license, the applicant shall sign a conditional use permit
document. The conditional use permit document shall include a list of all
conditions imposed by the Planning Commission and a signature of the applicant.
A site plan may also be required. The date of issuance of a conditional use
permit shall be from the date of the Planning Commission's final decision on
the conditional use.
   B.   Request For Extension: If the conditional use permit is to expire
pursuant to subsection A of this section, a request for an extension may be
filed with the Town Clerk not less than thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration date. The original conditional use approval shall remain valid until
the request for extension is acted upon by the Planning Commission. Failure to
request the extension in a timely manner shall cause a conditional use permit
to expire without further notice. Approval of a new conditional use permit
application is required prior to any reinstatement of the use.
   C.   Grant Of Extension: The Planning Commission may, after evaluating the
applicant's progress in the previous one hundred eighty (180) days and after
considering the Town Clerk's recommendation, grant an extension of up to one
year on the conditional use permit. Only one extension may be granted.
   D.   Cease Of Use: If the approved use or activity should cease for any
reason for a continuous period of one year or more, the conditional use permit
shall automatically terminate without notice. Approval of a new conditional use
permit application shall be required prior to any subsequent reinstatement of
the use. (Ord. 2019-01, 2-14-2019)
10-19-10: REVOCATION:
   A.   Permitted: A conditional use permit may be revocable by the Planning
Commission at any time due to failure of the owner or operator of the land
subject to the use to observe all conditions specified in issuing the
conditional use permit or failure to observe other requirements of this title
in regards to the maintenance of improvements or conduct of the use or business
as approved. Furthermore, the Town shall have a right of action to compel
offending structures or uses removed at the cost of the violator or owner.
   B.   Hearing; Notice: No conditional use permit shall be revoked until a
hearing is held by the Planning Commission. The permittee shall be notified in
writing of such hearing. The notification shall state the grounds for
complaint, or reasons for revocation, and the time and location at which the
hearing is to be held. At the hearing, the permittee shall be given an
opportunity to be heard and he may call witnesses and present evidence on his
behalf. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the Planning Commission shall determine
whether or not the permit should be revoked. (Ord. 2019-01, 2-14-2019)
10-19-11: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Appeals by the Town or any person aggrieved by a final decision, determination,
or requirement of the Planning Commission, regarding a conditional use approval
or revocation, shall be made to the Hearing Officer. (Ord. 2019-01, 2-14-2019)
10-19-12: CONDITIONS FULFILLED; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violation: Subject to the extension and modification provisions of this
title, failure to successfully fulfill all conditions approved in a conditional
use permit within one hundred eighty (180) days after approval constitutes a
violation of this title.
   B.   Time Established: At the time of the conditional permit approval, the
Planning Commission may establish a time in which any or all conditions must be
fulfilled. Unless modified by the Planning Commission, the conditions must be
fulfilled by that time.
   C.   Final Permits: No final occupancy permits, business licenses or other
approvals or permits may be granted unless all conditions are satisfactorily
met, unless the Mayor or Planning Commission specifically approves.
   D.   Enforcement; Revocation; Appeal: The Town may enforce conditional use
permits by requiring the applicant to appear before the Planning Commission, as
described above, to show cause why a permit should not be revoked due to
violation of the requirements of the permit or violation of Town ordinances.
Appeal of a decision of the Planning Commission to revoke a conditional use
permit shall be made to the Hearing Officer. The Town may also use any remedy
available under the law in both civil litigation or criminal prosecution. (Ord.
2019-01, 2-14-2019)
CHAPTER 20
CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY
SECTION:
10-20-1: Certificate Required
10-20-2: Application
10-20-3: Prerequisites
10-20-4: Exceptions
10-20-5: Deferral Of Prerequisites
10-20-1: CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
No land shall be occupied or used and no building hereafter erected in part,
for any residential, commercial, or industrial purpose until a certificate is
issued by the Mayor or building official stating that the building and/or the
use complies with the provisions of this title and with applicable uniform
codes. The certificate shall be called a Certificate of Occupancy. (Ord. 2019-
10, 8-8-2019)
10-20-2: APPLICATION:
Certificates of Occupancy shall be applied for coincidentally with the
application for a building permit, and shall be issued within ten (10) days
after the lawful erection or alteration of the building is completed. (Ord.
2019-10, 8-8-2019)
10-20-3: PREREQUISITES:
In addition to other provisions of this title, no certificate of occupancy
shall be issued until the following public improvements, as applicable, are
completed and in place:
   A.   Street grading; road base; dust treatment; paving; curb and gutter;
park strip landscaping; and, sidewalk;
   B.   Sanitary sewer facilities;
   C.   Culinary water facilities; and,
   D.   Address numbers. (Ord. 2019-10, 8-8-2019)
10-20-4: EXCEPTIONS:
Upon a finding of unusual circumstances, the Mayor or building official may
certify that the installation of certain required improvements, which are not
essential to life, health, and safety, is impractical prior to physical
occupancy, and may issue a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy. Prior to such
issuance, the applicant shall do the following:
   A.   Provide a cash bond in the amount of two hundred percent (200%) of the
estimated value of the incomplete improvements;
   B.   Sign a Temporary Occupancy Bond Agreement on a form acceptable to the
Town Attorney;
   C.   Pay a two hundred dollar ($200.00) administration fee;
   D.   Agree to allowing the Town upon the applicant's property in the event
the bond is forfeited and the Town completes the bonded improvements; and,
   E.   Indemnify the Town for any injuries or damages arising from the bonded
improvements completed by the Town.
Upon Town approval of the improvements, whether completed by the applicant or
the Town, the Town shall issue a Certificate of Occupancy. (Ord. 2019-10, 8-8-
2019)
10-20-5: DEFERRAL OF PREREQUISITES:
   A.   The installation of the public improvements required by section
10-20-3 of this chapter, may be deferred by the Mayor or Public Works Director
upon written request of the building permit applicant, addressed to the Mayor,
upon satisfying the following criteria:
      1.   The building permit shall be for the construction of structures
other than a new primary building (i.e., for completion of an unfinished space,
garage or garage addition, building expansion, upgrade, or remodel, shed,
accessory structures); and,
      2.   The deferral shall not pose a substantial risk to the life, health,
or safety of any persons, as determined by the Mayor or Public Works Director.
   B.   The owner of the property subject to the building permit shall sign a
Deferral Agreement and Release, on a form acceptable to the Town Attorney,
prior to issuance of the building permit.
   C.   The Deferral Agreement and Release shall be recorded by the Town in the
offices of the Tooele County Recorder. (Ord. 2019-10, 8-8-2019)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE
AND OBJECTIVES
SECTION:
11-1-1: Statutory Authorization
11-1-2: Findings Of Fact
11-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
11-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
11-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the State has, in Utah Code Annotated, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry. (Ord.
89-2, 6-5-1989)
11-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the Town are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazard, which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss. (Ord. 89-2, 6-5-1989)
11-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions to specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard; and
   H.   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 89-2, 6-5-1989)
11-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this title includes methods and provisions
for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development, which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 89-2, 6-5-1989)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Definitions
11-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this title its most reasonable application.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated areas of special flood
hazard designated as Zone A.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one (1) or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. This term also
includes park trailers, travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a
site for greater than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is
principally aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:
   A.   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure, either:
      1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement"
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   B.   The term does not, however, include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places. (Ord. 89-2, 6-5-1989)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Lands Applicable
11-3-2: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
11-3-3: Compliance Required
11-3-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
11-3-5: Interpretation
11-3-6: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
11-3-1: LANDS APPLICABLE:
This title shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the Town. (Ord. 89-2, 6-5-1989)
11-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), dated August 5, 1980,
is adopted by reference and declared to be part of this title. The FIRM is on
file at 18 North Johnson Street, Stockton, Utah. (Ord. 89-2, 6-5-1989)
11-3-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended or
altered without full compliance with the terms of this title and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 89-2, 6-5-1989)
11-3-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this title and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 89-2, 6-
5-1989)
11-3-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation of this title, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the Governing Body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under State
statutes. (Ord. 89-2, 6-5-1989)
11-3-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas of special flood hazard will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This title shall not create liability on the part of the Town or any
officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this title or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 89-2, 6-5-1989)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Development Permit
11-4-2: Administrator Designated
11-4-3: Duties And Responsibilities
11-4-1: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard established in section
11-3-2 of this title. Application for a development permit shall be made on
forms furnished by the Town Engineer and may include, but not be limited to,
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials; drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required: (Ord. 89-2, 6-5-1989; amd.
2017 Code)
   A.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all structures;
   B.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has been
floodproofed;
   C.   Certification by a registered Professional Engineer or Architect that
the floodproofing methods for any non- residential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection 11-5-2B of this title; and
   D.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 89-2, 6-5-1989)
11-4-2: ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATED:
The Planning Commission is hereby appointed to administer and implement this
title by granting or denying development permit applications in accordance with
its provisions. (Ord. 89-2, 6-5-1989)
11-4-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
Duties of the Planning Commission shall include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Permit Review:
      1.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this title have been satisfied.
      2.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
      3.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the area of
special flood hazard. For the purposes of this title, "adversely affects" means
damage to adjacent properties because of rises in flood stages attributed to
physical changes of the channel and the adjacent overbank areas.
         a.   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect and the
development is not a building, then the permit shall be granted without further
consideration.
         b.   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, then
technical justification (i.e., a registered Professional Engineer's
certification) for the proposed development shall be required.
         c.   If the proposed development is a building, then the provisions of
this title shall apply.
   B.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with section
11-3-2 of this title, the Planning Commission shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
Federal, State or other source as criteria for requiring that new construction,
substantial improvements, or other development in Zone A, are administered in
accordance with section
11-5-2 of this title.
   C.   Information Obtained And Maintained:
      1.   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement.
      2.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
         a.   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure has been floodproofed.
         b.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in subsection
11-4-1C of this chapter.
         c.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this title.
   D.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the State Division of Comprehensive
Emergency Management prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse,
and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
      2.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   E.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions). (Ord. 89-2, 6-5-1989)
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
11-5-1: General Standards
11-5-2: Specific Standards
11-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and capable
of resisting the hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads.
      2.   All manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement and capable of resisting the
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads. Methods of anchoring may include, but are
not limited to, use of over- the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable State and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces. Specific requirements may be:
         a.   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four (4) corners of
the manufactured home, with two (2) additional ties per side at intermediate
locations, with manufactured homes less than fifty feet (50') long requiring
one (1) additional tie per side;
         b.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five (5)
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured homes less
than fifty feet (50') long requiring four (4) additional ties per side;
         c.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds; and
         d.   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   B.   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   C.   Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      2.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
      3.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   D.   Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      2.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      3.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage; and
      4.   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development which contain at least fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
   E.   Encroachments: Encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development shall be prohibited in any
floodway unless a technical evaluation demonstrates that the encroachments will
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge. (Ord. 89-2, 6-5-1989)
11-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in subsection
11-4-3B of this title, the following standards are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated to or above the base flood elevation.
   B.   Non-Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
      1.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood elevation, the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
      2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      3.   Be certified by a registered Professional Engineer or Architect that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting the provisions of this subsection. Such
certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in subsection
11-4-3C2 of this title. (Ord. 89-2, 6-5-1989)
