TOWN CODE
OF
TORREY TOWN
UTAH
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-05, passed 11-14-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This Town Code of Torrey Town, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 2024-05, passed November 14, 2024. Ordinances of the
Town adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
TORREY TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the town council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Torrey Town. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the TORREY TOWN CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the town council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the town as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2016 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2016 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2016 Code)
1-1-4: ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
town council. The town clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the town clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of this code shall make every effort to
maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the town
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the town and shall be
returned to the office of the town clerk when directed so to do by order of the
town council. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the town passed prior
to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the town; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2016 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2016 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2016 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The town council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and town council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other town officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees: Whenever any officer or employee is referred by
title, such reference shall be construed as if followed by the words "of Torrey
Town".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the town
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection", or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the town ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2016 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
CODE: The town code of Torrey Town, Utah.
COUNTY: The county of Wayne, state of Utah.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the town for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or other activity subject to town regulation,
authorization or limitation.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
STATE: The state of Utah.
TOWN COUNCIL: The town council of Torrey Town, Utah.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2016 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2016
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 :
      1.   Criminal: The town council may impose a minimum criminal penalty for
the violation of any municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum
class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301 or by a
term of imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of
imprisonment.
      2.   Civil:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A2b of this section, the town
council may prescribe a minimum civil penalty for the violation of any
municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
         b.   A municipality may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication
for the violation of a municipal moving traffic ordinance.
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   C.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor.
   D.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person convicted of an offense may be sentenced
to pay a fine, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction.
   E.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the town, or for an offense
defined outside of this code over which this town has jurisdiction, for which
no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the
court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-3-703.
2 2. UCA § 76-3-204.
3 3. UCA § 76-3-205.
4 1. UCA § 76-3-301.
5 2. UCA § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this town shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this town when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this town, or which is expressly designated an infraction and any
offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this town which is not
designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction.
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. UCA § 76-3-104.
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Meetings Of Town Council
1-5-2: Ordinances And Resolutions
1-5-1: MEETINGS OF TOWN COUNCIL:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The governing body shall hold twelve (12) regular
meetings, which shall be held on the second Thursday of each month at the town
hall, which meetings shall begin promptly at six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M.;
provided, that:
      1.   If the meeting date is a legal holiday, then the meeting shall be
held at the same time and place above described on the next following day which
is not a legal holiday;
      2.   The governing body may by ordinance provide for a different time and
place for holding regular meetings of the governing body.
   B.   Special Meetings: If at any time the business of the town requires a
special meeting of the governing body, such meeting may be ordered by the mayor
or any two (2) members of the governing body. The order shall be entered in the
minutes of the governing body. The order shall provide at least three (3)
hours' notice of the special meeting and notice thereof shall be served by the
town clerk on each member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice
personally or by leaving it at the member's usual place of abode. The personal
appearance by a council member at any specially called meeting constitutes a
waiver of the notice required in this subsection.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the governing body shall be held in
compliance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 52, chapter 4,
relating to open and public meetings. (2016 Code)
1-5-2: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS:
   A.   Power Exercised By Ordinance: The town council may pass any ordinance
to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity,
business, conduct or condition authorized by statute or any other provision of
law. An officer of the town shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where
he relied on or enforced an ordinance he reasonably believed to be a valid
ordinance. It shall be a defense to any action for punitive damages that the
official acted in good faith in enforcing an ordinance or that he enforced an
ordinance on advice of legal counsel.
   B.   Form Of Ordinance: Any ordinance passed by the town council shall
contain and be in substantially the following order and form:
      1.   A number;
      2.   A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
      3.   A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;
      4.   An ordaining clause which states: "Be it ordained by Torrey Town:";
      5.   The body or subject of the ordinance;
      6.   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of
the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment for the violation of the
town ordinance; or, the penalty may establish a classification of penalties and
refer to such ordinance in which the penalty for such violation is established;
      7.   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the
date when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this section;
      8.   A line for the signature of the mayor or acting mayor to sign the
ordinance;
      9.   A place for the town clerk to attest the ordinance and affix the
seal of the town;
      10.   Where the mayor may disapprove an ordinance passed by the town
council, the ordinance must show that it was passed with the mayor's approval
or that if the mayor disapproved the ordinance, that it was passed over his
disapproval. If the mayor neither approves or disapproves an ordinance, the
ordinance should show that it became effective without the approval or
disapproval of the mayor.
   C.   Requirements As To Form; Effective Date:
      1.   Ordinances passed or enacted by the town council shall be signed by
the mayor, or if he is absent, by the mayor pro tempore, or by a quorum of the
town council, and shall be recorded before taking effect. No ordinance shall be
void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform to the provisions of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-3-704(1), (2), (3) or (4).
      2.   Ordinances shall become effective twenty (20) days after publication
or posting or thirty (30) days after final passage by the town council,
whichever is closer to the date of final passage, but ordinances may become
effective at an earlier or later date after publication or posting if so
provided in the ordinance.
      3.   Ordinances which do not have an effective date shall become
effective twenty (20) days after publication or posting, or thirty (30) days
after final passage by the town council, whichever is sooner.
   D.   Publication And Posting Of Ordinances:
      1.   Before an ordinance may take effect, the legislative body of the
town adopting an ordinance, except an ordinance enacted under Utah Code
Annotated sections 10-3-706 through 10-3-710, shall:
         a.   Deposit a copy of the ordinance in the office of the town clerk;
and
         b.   (1) Publish a short summary of the ordinance at least once:
               (A) In a newspaper published within the town; or
               (B) If there is no newspaper published within the town, in a
newspaper of general circulation within the town; or
            (2) Post a complete copy of the ordinance in three (3) public
places within the town.
      2.   a. Any ordinance, code or book, other than the state code, relating
to building or safety standards, municipal functions, administration, control
or regulations, may be adopted and shall take effect without further
publication or posting, if reference is made to the code or book and at least
one copy has been filed for use and examination by the public in the office of
the town clerk prior to the adoption of the ordinance by the governing body.
         b.   Any state law relating to building or safety standards, municipal
functions, administration, control or regulations, may be adopted and shall
take effect without further publication or posting if reference is made to the
state code.
         c.   The ordinance adopting the code or book shall be published in the
manner provided in this subsection.
   E.   Recording, Numbering And Certification Of Passage:
      1.   The town clerk shall record, in a book used exclusively for that
purpose, all ordinances passed by the town council. The town clerk shall give
each ordinance a number, if the town council has not already so done.
Immediately following each ordinance, or codification of ordinances, the town
clerk shall make or cause to be made a certificate stating the date of passage
and of the date of publication or posting, as required. The record and
memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the
contents, passage and publication or posting of the ordinance or codification.
      2.   The town clerk, insofar as possible, shall assign all ordinances a
number. The first number of such an ordinance shall be the year the ordinance
is adopted, followed by a dash which is followed by a number indicating the
order in which such ordinance was adopted during the year.
   F.   Resolutions:
      1.   Purpose: Unless otherwise required by law, the town council may
exercise all administrative powers by resolution, including, but not limited
to: a) establishing water and sewer rates; b) charges for garbage collection
and fees charged for town services; c) establishing personnel policies and
guidelines; and d) regulating the use and operation of the town property.
Punishment, fines or forfeitures may not be imposed by resolution.
      2.   Form: Any resolution passed by the town council shall be in a form
and contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.
      3.   Publication; Effective Date: Resolutions may become effective
without publication or posting and may take effect on passage or at a later
date as the town council may determine, but resolutions may not become
effective more than three (3) months from the date of passage. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Primary Election System
1-6-1: PRIMARY ELECTION SYSTEM:
   A.   Election for mayor and council members shall be conducted according to
the municipal election section of the Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-404(1)
and (2).
   B.   This chapter provides for the candidates for mayor and council members
to be nominated at a primary election if required. A primary election will be
held only when the number of candidates filing for an office exceeds twice the
number to be elected. The candidates nominated at the primary election plus
candidates that were not required to run in the primary are to be placed on the
November ballot. (Ord. B-1, 1-9-2002)
CHAPTER 7
PURCHASING
SECTION:
1-7-1: Purposes
1-7-2: Compliance; Exemptions
1-7-3: Definitions
1-7-4: Purchasing Agent
1-7-5: Source Selection And Contract Formation
1-7-6: Specifications
1-7-7: Appeals
1-7-8: Ethics In Public Contracting
1-7-1: PURPOSES:
The underlying purposes of this policy are to:
   A.   Ensure fair and equitable treatment of all persons who wish to, or do
conduct business with the town.
   B.   Provide for the greatest possible economy in town procurement
activities.
   C.   Foster effective broad based competition within the enterprise system
to ensure that the town will receive the best possible service or product at
the lowest possible price. (2016 Code)
1-7-2: COMPLIANCE; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   This chapter shall not prevent the town from complying with the terms
and conditions of any grant, gift or bequest that is otherwise consistent with
law.
   B.   When a procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance
funds, the town shall comply with applicable federal law and regulations. (2016
Code)
1-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
BUSINESS: Any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship, joint
stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.
CHANGE ORDER: A written order signed by the purchasing agent, directing the
contractor to suspend work or make changes, which the appropriate clauses of
the contract authorize the purchasing agent to order without the consent of the
contractor or any written alteration in specifications, delivery point, rate of
delivery, period of performance, price, quantity or other provisions of any
contract accompanied by mutual action of the parties to the contract.
CONTRACT: Any town agreement for the procurement or disposal of supplies,
services or construction.
INVITATION FOR BIDS: All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting bids.
PERSON: Any business, individual, union, committee, club, other organization or
group of individuals.
PROCUREMENT: Buying, purchasing, renting, leasing with an option to purchase,
or otherwise acquiring any supplies, services or construction.
PURCHASE DESCRIPTION: The words used in a solicitation to describe the
supplies, services or construction to be purchased, and includes specifications
attached to or made a part of the solicitation.
PURCHASING AGENT: The person duly authorized by the town council to enter into
and administer contracts and make written determinations with respect thereto.
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS: All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting proposals. (2016 Code)
1-7-4: PURCHASING AGENT:
The purchasing agent shall be responsible to make procurements, solicit bids
and proposals, enter into and administer contracts, and make written
determinations for the town. The mayor and/or the town council shall act as the
purchasing agent. (2016 Code)
1-7-5: SOURCE SELECTION AND CONTRACT FORMATION:
   A.   Purchases Not Requiring Sealed Bids:
      1.   Purchases costing less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in
total, shall not require bids of any type. Purchases shall not be artificially
divided so as to constitute a small purchase under this section.
      2.   Purchases costing more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) but
less than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) in total, shall require two
(2) to three (3) telephone bids.
      3.   Purchases made through the cooperative purchasing contracts
administered by the state division of purchasing.
      4.   Purchases made from a single source provider.
      5.   Purchases required during an emergency, i.e., an imminent threat to
the public health, welfare or safety. However, as much competition as practical
should be obtained; and, such purchases should be limited to amounts necessary
to the resolution of the emergency.
      6.   Purchases in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) require town
council approval.
   B.   Purchases Requiring Sealed Bids:
      1.   Contracts shall be awarded by competitive sealed bidding, except as
otherwise provided by this chapter.
      2.   An invitation for bids shall be issued when a contract is to be
awarded by competitive sealed bidding. The invitation shall include a purchase
description and all contractual terms and conditions applicable to the
procurement. Public notice of the invitation for bids shall be given at least
twenty one (21) days prior to the date set forth therein for the opening of
bids. The notice may include publication in newspaper of general circulation.
      3.   Any procurement in excess of twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) shall require a legal notice in a local newspaper of general
circulation.
      4.   Bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of one or more
witnesses at the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. The
amount of each bid and any other relevant information, together with the name
of each bidder, shall be recorded. The record and each bid shall be open to
public inspection.
      5.   Bids shall be unconditionally accepted without alteration or
correction, except as authorized in this chapter. Bids shall be evaluated based
on the requirements set forth in the invitation for bids.
      6.   Correction or withdrawal of inadvertently erroneous bids before and
after award, or cancellation of awards or contracts based on such bid mistakes,
shall be permitted. After bid opening, no changes in bid prices or other
provisions of bids prejudicial to the interest of the town or fair competition
shall be permitted. All decisions to permit the correction or withdrawal of
bids or to cancel awards or contracts based on bid mistakes shall be supported
by a written determination made by the purchasing agent.
      7.   The contract shall be awarded with reasonable promptness, by written
notice, to the lowest bidder whose bid meets the requirements and criteria set
forth in the invitation for bids.
   C.   Cancellation And Rejection Of Bids: An invitation for bids, a request
for proposals or other solicitation may be canceled, or any or all bids or
proposals may be rejected, in whole or in part, as may be specified in the
solicitation, when it is in the best interests of the town. The reasons shall
be made part of the contract file.
   D.   Use Of Competitive Sealed Proposals In Lieu Of Bids: When the
purchasing agent determines in writing that the use of competitive sealed
bidding is either not practicable or not advantageous to the town, a contract
may be entered into by competitive sealed proposals. Competitive sealed
proposals are most appropriately used for professional service type contracts.
      1.   Proposals shall be solicited through a request for proposals. Public
notice of the request for proposals shall be given at least twenty one (21)
days prior to the advertised date of the opening of the proposals.
      2.   Proposals shall be opened so as to avoid disclosure of contents to
competing offerors during the process of negotiation. A register of proposals
shall be prepared and shall be open for public inspection after contract award.
      3.   The request for proposals shall state the relative importance of
price and other evaluating factors.
      4.   Offerors shall be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect to
any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals, and revisions may be
permitted after submissions and prior to award for the purpose of obtaining
best and final offers. In conducting discussions, there shall be no disclosure
of any information derived from proposals submitted by competing offerors.
      5.   Award shall be made to the person whose proposal is determined, in
writing, to be the most advantageous to the town, taking into consideration
price and the evaluation factors set forth in the request for proposals. No
other factors or criteria shall be used in the evaluation. The contract file
shall contain the basis on which the award is made.
   E.   Architect, Engineer Services: Architect and engineer services are
qualification based procurements. Requests for such services should be publicly
announced. Contracts should be negotiated by the town based on demonstrated
competence at fair and reasonable prices.
   F.   Determination Of Nonresponsibility Of Bidder: Determination of
nonresponsibility of a bidder or offeror shall be made in writing. The
unreasonable failure of a bidder or offeror to promptly supply information in
connection with an inquiry with respect to responsibility may be grounds for a
determination of nonresponsibility with respect to the bidder or offeror.
Information furnished by a bidder or offeror pursuant to this subsection shall
not be disclosed outside of the purchasing division without prior written
consent by the bidder or offeror.
   G.   Cost Plus A Percentage Of Cost Contracts Prohibited: Subject to the
limitations of this section, any type of contract which will promote the best
interests of the town may be used; provided, that the use of a cost plus a
percentage of cost contract is prohibited. A cost reimbursement contract may be
used only when a determination is made in writing that such contract is likely
to be less costly to the town than any other type or that it is impracticable
to obtain the supplies, services or construction required except under such a
contract.
   H.   Required Contract Clauses:
      1.   The unilateral right of the town to order, in writing, changes in
the work within the scope of the contract that do not alter the scope of the
contract work.
      2.   Variations occurring between estimated quantities of work in a
contract and actual quantities.
      3.   Suspension of work ordered by the town. (2016 Code)
1-7-6: SPECIFICATIONS:
All specifications shall seek to promote overall economy and best use for the
purposes intended and encourage competition in satisfying the town needs, and
shall not be unduly restrictive. Where practical and reasonable, and within the
scope of this chapter, Utah products shall be given preference. (2016 Code)
1-7-7: APPEALS:
   A.   Time Limit For Filing: Any actual or prospective bidder, offeror or
contractor who is aggrieved in connection with the solicitation or award of a
contract may appeal to the purchasing agent. An appeal shall be submitted in
writing within five (5) working days after the aggrieved person knows or should
have known of the facts.
   B.   Decision: The purchasing agent shall promptly issue a written decision
regarding any appeal if it is not settled by a mutual agreement. The decision
shall state the reasons for the action taken and inform the protestor,
contractor or prospective contractor of the right to appeal to the town
council.
   C.   Appeal To Town Council: The town council shall be the final appeal on
the town level.
   D.   Appeal To Court: All further appeals shall be handled as provided in
Utah Code Annotated sections 63G-6a-1701 et seq., 63G-6a-1801 et seq., and 63G-
6a-1901 et seq. (2016 Code)
1-7-8: ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING:
   A.   No person involved in making procurement decisions may have personal
investments in any business entity which will create a substantial conflict
between their private interests and their public duties.
   B.   Any person involved in making procurement decisions is guilty of a
class B misdemeanor if the person asks, receives or offers to receive any
emolument, gratuity, contribution, loan or reward, or any promise thereof,
either for the person's own use or benefit of any other person or organization
from any person or organization interested in selling to the town. Violators
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 8
DISPOSAL OF TOWN-OWNED PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-8-1: Purpose
1-8-2: Authority
1-8-3: Definitions
1-8-4: Public Hearing
1-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures for disposal of town-
owned real property. (Ord. 2024-03, 5-9-2024)
1-8-2: AUTHORITY:
Torrey Town shall have the authority to purchase, receive, hold, sell, lease,
convey, and dispose of real and personal property for the benefit of the town,
whether the property is within the town's corporate boundaries, if the action
is in the public interest as provided by Utah Code Annotated, section §10-8-2.
(Ord. 2024-03, 5-9-2024)
1-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
DISPOSAL: Alienation of real estate by sale, trade, or other transfer of title.
SIGNIFICANT PARCEL: Any parcel of real property with an estimated fair market
value of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or more, which estimation may be
done without a formal appraisal at the discretion of the mayor and council.
TOWN OWNED REAL PROPERTY: Any parcel of real property owned exclusively by the
town not otherwise subject to any state, federal or local laws or regulations
or contracts affecting its disposition. (Ord. 2024-03, 5-9-2024)
1-8-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Prior to the disposal of a parcel of real property deemed to be of
significant value, the Town shall hold a public hearing and receive public
comment in connection therewith.
   B.   Notice of such public hearing shall be made by publication in the local
newspaper and on the Utah Public Notice website at least fourteen (14) days
before the date of the hearing.
   C.   The town shall take comments from any person appearing at such hearing
or by written comment received in the office of the town recorder before the
date and time of such public hearing.
   D.   The notice of public hearing shall include the date, time and place of
the meeting as well as the price or manner in which the town proposes to
dispose of the real property in question. (Ord. 2024-03, 5-9-2024)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose
2-1-2: Establishment
2-1-3: Duties Of Commission
2-1-1: PURPOSE:
The town recognizes that the historical heritage of the Torrey community is
among its most valued and important assets. It is therefor the intent of the
town to identify, preserve, protect and enhance historic areas and sites lying
within the town limits. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-12-1992)
2-1-2: ESTABLISHMENT:
A historic preservation commission is hereby established by the town with the
following provisions:
   A.   Membership; Terms: The commission shall consist of a minimum of five
(5) members with a demonstrated interest, competence or knowledge in historic
preservation, appointed by the town council for terms of not less than two (2)
years.
   B.   Professionals: To the extent available in the community, two (2)
commission members shall be professionals, as defined by national park service
regulations, from the disciplines of history, archaeology, planning,
architecture or architectural history.
   C.   Meetings: The commission shall meet at least twice each year and
conduct business in accordance with the open public meeting laws of the state.
This includes public notification of meeting place, time and agenda items.
   D.   Minutes: Written minutes of each commission meeting shall be prepared
and made available for public inspection. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-12-1992)
2-1-3: DUTIES OF COMMISSION:
The historic preservation commission shall have the following duties:
   A.   Survey And Inventory Community Historic Resources: The historic
preservation commission shall conduct or cause to be conducted a survey of the
historic, architectural and archaeological resources within the community. The
survey shall be compatible with the Utah inventory of historic and
archaeological sites. Survey and inventory documents shall be maintained and
shall be open to the public. The survey shall be updated at least every ten
(10) years.
   B.   Review Proposed Nominations To National Register Of Historic Places:
The historic preservation commission shall review and comment to the state
historic preservation officer on all proposed national registry nominations for
properties within the boundaries of the town. When the historic preservation
commission considers a national register nomination which is normally evaluated
by professionals in a specific discipline and that discipline is not
represented on the commission, the commission shall seek expertise in that area
before rendering its decision.
   C.   Provide Advice And Information:
      1.   The historic preservation commission shall act in an advisory role
to other officials and departments of government regarding the identification
and protection of local historic and archaeological resources.
      2.   The historic preservation commission shall work toward the
continuing education of citizens regarding historic preservation and community
history. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-12-1992)
   D.   Enforcement Of State Historic Preservation Laws: The commission shall
support the enforcement of all state laws relating to historic preservation.
These include, but are not limited to: Utah Code Annotated title 8, chapter 7;
section 9-8-301 et seq., regarding the protection of Utah antiquities; and Utah
Code Annotated section 9-8-307 regarding notification of the state division of
state history of any known proposed action which will destroy or affect a site,
building or object owned by the state and included on or eligible for the state
of national register. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-12-1992; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSING
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required
3-1-2: Application For License
3-1-3: Previously Issued Licenses
3-1-4: Fee For License
3-1-5: Transient Business Licenses
3-1-6: Approval Authority
3-1-7: Exceptions
3-1-8: Penalty
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to operate a business, including, but not
limited to, transient property rentals, AIRBNB, VRBO, etc., within the town
without applying for and paying the fee associated with such business. (Ord.,
9-7-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
3-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a business license shall be on forms approved by the mayor and
town council and shall sufficiently describe the intended business operations.
(Ord., 9-7-2011)
3-1-3: PREVIOUSLY ISSUED LICENSES:
It shall be unlawful to operate any business activities under a business
license previously issued by the town where such activities are beyond the
defined and described business activities authorized under such business
license. (Ord., 9-7-2011)
3-1-4: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Specified: All businesses, whether operated in established or
traditional business facilities, or in home, shall pay an annual fee as
established by resolution of the town council, other than businesses where a
beer license has been authorized, in which case the annual business license fee
shall be an additional fee as established by resolution of the town council.
(Ord., 9-7-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Due: Business license fees shall be due on or before May 1 of each
year. (Ord., 9-7-2011)
   C.   Failure To Pay: Failure to pay an annual renewal fee on or before June
1 shall result in the termination of such license without further notice and
any business operations thereafter shall be in violation of this section. If
paid after June 15 a late fee penalty of fifty percent (50%) of the amount of
the fee shall be added to the original amount due. If paid after August 1 the
fee shall be doubled. (Ord., 9-7-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
3-1-5: TRANSIENT BUSINESS LICENSES:
   A.   Overnight Camping: The issuance of a transient business license shall
not include the right to overnight camping at the location of sales
transactions, unless such location is within an approved campground or
recreational vehicle park. Any overnight camping, whether inside or out of a
tent, trailer or other recreational vehicle, must be conducted in approved
campgrounds or recreational vehicle parks.
   B.   Written Authorization: No transient business license shall be issued
without written authorization from the record owner of the property upon which
business transactions shall occur. Such authorization shall specify the dates
of authorized use. Such authorization shall be limited to the current calendar
year and separate authorization shall be required for periods of use
thereafter.
   C.   Setbacks Applicable: Sales and operations pursuant to a transient
business license shall be subject to applicable setback requirements and no
displays, vehicles, equipment or other personal property shall be allowed
within any required setback. (Ord., 9-7-2011)
3-1-6: APPROVAL AUTHORITY:
All applications for the issuance of a business license shall be referred to
and approved by the mayor and town council to ensure compliance with zoning
ordinances and any other applicable town ordinances. (Ord., 9-7-2011)
3-1-7: EXCEPTIONS:
Business licenses shall not be required for the following:
   A.   Town Approved: Any activity which is part of a town approved festival,
show or public event.
   B.   Vegetables, Fruits: Any temporary sales of vegetables or fruits grown
by the vendor.
   C.   Garage Sales: Any "garage sales", which means a person selling on his
or her premises, property which was not acquired for resale, barter or
exchange. (Ord., 9-7-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
3-1-8: PENALTY:
Any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be a class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 9-7-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC EVENTS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Public Event Defined
3-2-2: Conditional Use Permit
3-2-3: Event License Application
3-2-4: Fee For License; Deposits
3-2-5: Inspection Of Events Location
3-2-6: Denial Of License
3-2-7: Security At Public Events
3-2-8: Prohibited Conduct
3-2-9: Illumination
3-2-10: Hours Of Participants
3-2-11: Penalty
3-2-1: PUBLIC EVENT DEFINED:
A public event, for purposes of this chapter, shall include, but is not
necessarily limited to, the following:
   A.   Any indoor or outdoor event with the number of expected participants
and spectators exceeding three hundred (300).
   B.   Any outdoor event, regardless of the number of participants, which
involves a race or competition, such as marathons, bicycle races and the like.
   C.   Any dance as to which the public is invited to be held on town
property.
   D.   Any event utilizing sound amplification equipment. Public events
covered by this chapter shall include events or activities free to the public,
as well as events and activities for which an admission price or other charges
are imposed. (2016 Code)
3-2-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Required: It is unlawful to sponsor or hold a public event without
having a license. Before being issued a business license to hold public events,
each applicant shall first apply for and receive a conditional use permit from
the town council.
   B.   Issuance Of Conditional Use Permit: Any conditional use permit granted
for the purpose of holding a public event shall be submitted and reviewed by
the planning commission. If recommended by the planning commission, the same
shall then be submitted for approval to the town council. (2016 Code)
3-2-3: EVENT LICENSE APPLICATION:
The application for a public event license shall be upon a form furnished by
the town. The application form shall require information relative to the
location of the event premises and the applicant's age, citizenship and felony
or misdemeanor convictions involving moral turpitude. If the application is a
partnership, association or corporation, the same information shall be provided
with respect to each partner, member or corporate officer and director. The
application need only be signed by an authorized member or officer. Each
individual licensee must be over the age of twenty one (21) years, of good
moral character and a citizen of the United States. No license shall be granted
to any applicant who has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude. If the applicant is a partnership, association member or
corporate, all officers, directors, members and partners shall meet all of the
foregoing qualifications as if such applicant were an individual. Applications
may be referred to the sheriff's office for a background investigation to
determine the qualification of the applicant under the provisions of this
section. (2016 Code)
3-2-4: FEE FOR LICENSE; DEPOSITS:
License fees and deposits shall be as established by resolution of the town
council. (2016 Code)
3-2-5: INSPECTION OF EVENTS LOCATION:
Before a license is issued, each location for a public event shall be inspected
by the fire chief and building inspector for violations of the building and
fire codes. Any such violation shall be corrected prior to the issuance of a
license. In the case of an event to be held outdoors, the location need only be
inspected to determine if it is a reasonably safe location for an event, taking
into account available parking, traffic, lighting and proximity to residential
areas. (2016 Code)
3-2-6: DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Conditions Constituting Denial: The town or planning commission may
deny the license:
      1.   If the applicant does not qualify under subsection 3-2-2B of this
chapter;
      2.   If, after inspection, there is reasonable cause to believe that the
proposed location would be unsafe;
      3.   If there is reasonable cause to believe that adequate security
measures either could not or would not be taken by the applicant; or
      4.   If, based on the proposed location, the anticipated noise level
would unreasonably interfere with the peaceful enjoyment of adjoining
properties by the tenants or owners.
   B.   Appeal: In the event that the planning commission denies a license
pursuant to this section, the applicant may appeal the decision to the town
council by filing a notice of appeal with the town clerk and paying any
applicable filing fee within ten (10) days of the denial (verbal or written
denial). (2016 Code)
3-2-7: SECURITY AT PUBLIC EVENTS:
A licensee shall have security personnel at each public event in order to
ensure that there is no violation of this chapter during the conduct of the
event. The number of security guards required shall be determined by the town
council. Factors to be considered shall be the location of the proposed event,
the number of people expected at the event, the type of premises where the
event will be held and the age group of the expected participants. (2016 Code)
3-2-8: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in or for a licensee to permit any
person to engage in the following conduct during a public event:
   A.   To bring, possess or consume beer or other alcoholic beverages of any
kind in or upon the licensed premises unless all necessary permits or licenses
for beer and alcohol are obtained;
   B.   To bring, possess, use or consume controlled substances, as the same
are defined in the Utah controlled substances act, in or upon the licensed
premises;
   C.   To be boisterous or disorderly in or upon the licensed premises to the
extent such conduct interferes with the peaceful enjoyment of adjacent property
by its owners or occupants;
   D.   To commit any indecent, gross, violent or vulgar act in or upon the
licensed premises;
   E.   To bring, possess or carry openly or concealed any weapons. (2016 Code)
3-2-9: ILLUMINATION:
All areas shall be kept illuminated so that any occupants thereof may be
clearly observed. (2016 Code)
3-2-10: HOURS OF PARTICIPANTS:
Unless otherwise allowed pursuant to the issuance of a conditional use permit,
all activities shall commence no earlier than eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
shall terminate no later than ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on weeknights, and
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on weekends and holidays. (2016 Code)
3-2-11: PENALTY:
   A.   Anyone failing to obtain a required conditional use permit outlined
herein shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. With respect to a corporation or other entity failing to
obtain the necessary permit, all officers, directors, members and authorized
agents shall be chargeable as individuals. Each day that an event continues
without a required permit shall be treated as a separate offense.
   B.   Any events subject to this chapter shall be subject to immediate
termination with the failure to do so constituting a separate offense.
   C.   The town reserves the right to deny the issuance of future permits
hereunder based solely on the failure to obtain a necessary permit in
connection with prior events. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Title
3-3A-2: Purpose
3-3A-3: Effective Date
3-3A-4: Tax Imposed
3-3A-5: Penalty
3-3A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF TORREY TOWN.
(Ord. 001, 1990)
3-3A-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   Authorization Of Tax: The 48th session of the Utah legislature has
authorized the counties and municipalities of the state to enact sales and use
tax ordinances imposing a one percent (1%) tax.
   B.   Tax Established: It is the purpose of this article to conform the sales
and use tax of the town to the requirements of the sales and use tax act, Utah
Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as currently amended. (Ord. 001, 1990)
3-3A-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become effective as of one minute after twelve o'clock (12:
01) A.M., January 1, 1990. (Ord. 001, 1990)
3-3A-4: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Imposed:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the town at the rate of one percent
(1%).
      2.   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the town of tangible personal property from any retailer on or
after the operative date hereof at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales
price of the property.
      3.   For the purposes of this article, all retail sales shall be presumed
to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out of state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out of state destination. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed and adopted by the
state tax commission. Public utilities, as defined by Utah Code Annotated title
54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within any county
or municipality where public utilities are rendered, but the place of sale or
the sales tax revenue arising from such service allocable to the town shall be
as determined by the state tax commission pursuant to an appropriate formula
and other rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it. (Ord. 001,
1990)
   B.   Adoption Of State Codes; Provisions:
      1.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the sales and use tax act, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, insofar as
they relate to sales taxes, excepting section 59-12-101 thereof, are hereby
adopted and made a part of this article as though fully set forth herein. (Ord.
001, 1990; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this town shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection B
shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the town for the word
"state" when the word is used as part of the title of the state tax commission,
or of the constitution of the state of Utah, nor shall the name of the town be
substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the state tax
commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this article.
      3.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this section.
      4.   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by
which the tax is measured:
         a.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer.
         b.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use
tax has become due by reason of the sales transaction to any other municipality
and any county in the state under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by
that county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act. (Ord.
001, 1990)
3-3A-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 001, 1990; amd. 2016 Code)
ARTICLE B. MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Definitions
3-3B-2: Municipal Energy Sales And Use Tax Levied
3-3B-3: Exemptions From The Municipal Energy Sales And Use Tax
3-3B-4: No Effect Upon Existing Franchises - Credit For Franchise Fees
3-3B-5: Tax Collection Contract With State Tax Commission
3-3B-6: Incorporation Of Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1, Utah Code Annotated,
Including Amendments
3-3B-7: No Additional License To Collect The Municipal Energy Sales And Use Tax
Required - No Additional License Or Reporting Requirements
3-3B-8: Effective Date
3-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
CONSUMER: A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject to
the municipal energy sales and use tax
CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE:
   1.   A fee:
      a.   Provided for in a franchise agreement; and
      b.   That is consideration for the franchise agreement; or
   2.   a.   A fee similar to subsection 1a of this definition; or
      b.   Any combination of subsections 1a or 1b of this subsection.
DELIVERED VALUE:
   1.   The fair market value of the taxable energy delivered for sale or use
in the municipality and includes:
      a.   The value of the energy itself; and
      b.   Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges, service
charges, or other costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in
usable form to each class of customer in the municipality.
   2.   Delivered value does not include the amount of a tax paid under Title
59, Chapter 12, Part 1, Tax Collection, Part 2, Local Sales and Use Tax Act,
Utah Code Annotated 1953, or this chapter.
DE MINIMIS AMOUNT: An amount of taxable energy that does not exceed the greater
of:
   1.   Five percent (5%) of the energy supplier's estimated total Utah gross
receipts from sales of property or services; or
   2.   Ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
ENERGY SUPPLIER: A person supplying taxable energy, except for persons
supplying a de minimis amount of taxable energy, if such persons are excluded
by rule promulgated by the State Tax Commission.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise or an ordinance, contract, or agreement
granting a franchise.
FRANCHISE TAX:
   1.   A franchise tax;
   2.   A tax similar to a franchise tax; or
   3.   Any combination of subsections 1 or 2 of this section.
PERSON, SALE, STORAGE and USE: Means the same as defined in Section 59-12-102,
Utah Code Annotated.
TAXABLE ENERGY: Gas and electric town. (Ord. 2024-02, 3-14-2024)
3-3B-2: MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX LEVIED:
There is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this chapter, a tax on
every sale or use of taxable energy made within the Town equaling six percent
(6%) of the delivered value of the taxable energy to the consumer. This tax
shall be known as the municipal energy sales and use tax.
   A.   The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the taxable
energy to the consumer.
   B.   The tax shall be in addition to any sales or use tax on.taxable energy
imposed by the Town authorized by Title 59, Chapter 12, Utah Code, Sales and
Use Tax Act. (Ord. 2024-02, 3-14-2024)
3-3B-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM THE MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX:
   A.   No exemptions are granted from the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax,
except as expressly provided in Utah Code Annotated §§ 10-1-305(2)(b) and 10-1-
305(4). (Ord. 2024-02, 3-14-2024)
3-3B-4: NO EFFECT UPON EXISTING FRANCHISES - CREDIT FOR FRANCHISE FEES:
   A.   This chapter shall not alter any existing franchise agreements between
the Town and energy suppliers.
   B.   There is a credit against the tax due from any consumer in the amount
of a contractual franchise fee paid if:
      1.   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to the Town
pursuant to a franchise agreement in effect on date;
      2.   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately itemized charge; and
      3.   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise. (Ord. 2024-02, 3-14-
2024)
3-3B-5: TAX COLLECTION CONTRACT WITH STATE TAX COMMISSION:
   A.   The municipality shall enter into a contract with the commission to
have the commission perform all functions related to the administration or
operation of the ordinance. On or before the Effective Date of the Tax, the
Town shall contract with the State Tax Commission to perform all functions
incident to the administration and collection of the municipal energy sales and
use tax, in accordance with this chapter, except for functions relating to
taxes collected by the Town as the energy supplier as provided in Section 10-1-
307(3), Utah Code Annotated, as amended. The mayor, with the approval of the
Town attorney, is hereby authorized to enter into agreements with the State Tax
Commission that may be necessary to the continued administration and operation
of the municipal energy sales and use tax ordinance enacted by this chapter.
   B.   An energy supplier shall pay the municipal energy sales and use tax
revenues collected from consumers directly to the Town monthly if:
      1.   The Town is the energy supplier; or
      2.   a.   The energy supplier estimates that the municipal energy sales
and use tax collected annually from its Utah consumers equals one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) or more; and
         b.   The energy supplier collects the municipal energy sales and use
tax.
   C.   An energy supplier paying the municipal energy sales and use tax
directly to the Town may deduct any contractual franchise fees collected by the
energy supplier qualifying as a credit and remit the net tax less any amount
the energy supplier retains as authorized by Section 10-1-307(4), Utah Code
Annotated. (Ord. 2024-02, 3-14-2024)
3-3B-6: INCORPORATION OF TITLE 59, CHAPTER 12, PART 1, UTAH CODE ANNOTATED,
INCLUDING AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Except as herein provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Act, as well as
this chapter, all of the provisions of Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1, Utah Code
Annotated, as amended, and in force and effect on or before the Effective Date
of the tax; insofar as they relate to sales and use taxes, are hereby adopted
and made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein.
   B.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1, and
Title 10, Part 3, Utah Code Annotated, the state of Utah is named or referred
to as the "taxing agency," the name of the Town shall be substituted, insofar
as is necessary for the purposes of that part. Nothing in this subsection shall
be deemed to require substitution of the name Torrey Town for the word "State"
when that word is used as part of the title of the State Tax Commission, or of
the Constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of Torrey Town be substituted for
that of the state in any section when the result of such a substitution would
require action to be taken by or against Torrey Town or any agency thereof,
rather than by or against the State Tax Commission in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.
   C.   Any amendments made to Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1, Utah Code
Annotated 1953, which would be applicable to Torrey Town for the purposes of
carrying out this chapter are hereby incorporated herein by reference and shall
be effective upon the date that they are effective as a Utah statute. (Ord.
2024-02, 3-14-2024)
3-3B-7: NO ADDITIONAL LICENSE TO COLLECT THE MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
REQUIRED - NO ADDITIONAL LICENSE OR REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
No additional license to collect or report the municipal energy sales and use
tax levied by this chapter is required, provided the energy supplier collecting
the tax has a license issued under Section 59-12-106 Utah Code Annotated. (Ord.
2024-02, 3-14-2024)
3-3B-8: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall become effective upon publication, and the enactment of the
tax shall tax effect on July 1, 2023 (the "Effective Date of the Tax"),
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 10-1-304(3)(b). (Ord. 2024-02, 3-14-2024)
ARTICLE C. TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Transient Room Tax
3-3C-2: Definitions
3-3C-3: Transient Room Revenue Tax
3-3C-4: Collection
3-3C-5: Use
3-3C-6: Exemptions To Transient Room Tax
3-3C-7: Penalties And Interest
3-3C-1: TRANSIENT ROOM TAX:
It is the intent and purpose of Torrey Town to adopt a Transient Room Tax
pursuant to, and in accordance with, Utah Code Annotated, section 59-12-352 et
seq. (Ord. 2024-04, 7-11-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
3-3C-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this article:
PERSON: Any individual, person, partnership, firm, association, corporation,
limited liability company, limited liability partnership, or other similar
entity.
PUBLIC TRANSIENT FACILITIES: A place providing temporary sleeping
accommodations or temporary living arrangements to the public and includes; but
is not necessarily limited to, the following:
   A.   A hotel;
   B.   A motel;
   C.   An inn;
   D.   A bed and breakfast;
   E.   A trailer park offering short term rentals; and
   F.   A home, condominium, apartment, townhome, or other similar facility
offering short term rentals.
RENT: Monies or other items of value exchanged for the right to use public
transient facilities for short term rentals.
SHORT TERM RENTALS: A public transient facility, residential unit, or, any
portion of a residential unit offering sleeping accommodations or temporary
living arrangements for a period of less than thirty (30) consecutive days.
(Ord. 2024-04, 7-11-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
3-3C-3: TRANSIENT ROOM REVENUE TAX:
There is hereby levied, on persons occupying short term rentals, a Transient
Room Tax of one percent (1%) of the value of rents charged for the use of the
short term rentals. This tax is in addition to any other taxes or fees to which
the short term rentals are subject. Persons operating short term rentals are
responsible to collect the tax and remit it monthly to the Utah State Tax
Commission.
The said transient room tax may be modified at any time by ordinance, subject
to the limitations of UCA § 59-12-352(1) or other applicable Law. (Ord. 2024-
04, 7-11-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
3-3C-4: COLLECTION:
Torrey Town shall contract with the Utah State Tax Commission to collect the
municipal transient room tax. The mayor is hereby authorized to enter into the
necessary and standard agreements with that agency as part of the initial set
up of the arrangement as well as any future transactions which may become
necessary for the continued administration of the arrangement. (Ord. 2024-04,
7-11-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
3-3C-5: USE:
Revenues generated by the transient room tax shall be deposited in the Town's
general fund and may be used for any general fund purpose, so long as the same
continues to comply with State law. (Ord. 2024-04, 7-11-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
3-3C-6: EXEMPTIONS TO TRANSIENT ROOM TAX:
No transient room tax shall be imposed under this chapter upon any person:
   A.   Engaged in business for a solely religious, charitable, or other type
of strictly nonprofit purpose who is tax exempt in such activities under the
laws of the United States and the State of Utah; or
   B.   Engaged in a business specifically exempted from municipal taxation and
fees by the laws of the United States or the State of Utah. (Ord. 2024-04, 7-
11-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
3-3C-7: PENALTIES AND INTEREST:
   A.   Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be subject to
a monetary penalty in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the amount due.
   B.   Sums due under this article, and not paid in a timely fashion, shall
incur interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum.
   C.   In addition to the monetary penalty, a person or short term rental
violating this policy is subject to having their business license revoked.
   D.   Failure to collect or remit the tax when due shall make the person
operating the short term rental personally liable for the sums due, including
attorney's fees and costs incurred in collecting the sums. (Ord. 2024-04, 7-11-
2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 4
SHORT TERM RENTAL PROPERTIES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: Limitation On Short Term Rentals
3-4-4: Licensing
3-4-5: Lodging And Sales Tax
3-4-6: Requirements
3-4-7: Administration; Permittee; Local Contact
3-4-8: Violation
3-4-9: Revision
3-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to define and to provide for the
regulation of and licensing of short term rentals within the Town of Torrey,
Utah. Such regulation and licensing shall provide Torrey Town with necessary
information related to the operation of short term rentals in order to protect
the health, safety, and well being of the residents and visitors of Torrey
Town. (Ord. 2018-08, 8-9-2018)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADJACENT PROPERTY: Means all property abutting a short term rental property and
all nearby but not necessarily touching property, such as properties separated
by a natural barrier such as a street or a waterway but not separated by
another property.
ADVISORY FOR RENTERS: Means a digest of Torrey Town rules and regulations that
pertains to short term renters.
BEDROOM: Means a room that has the characteristics described in the current
International Building Code.
CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP: Means the transfer of title from one person or entity to
another.
CODE: Means current Torrey Town Code, current State of Utah Fire Code, and
current International Building Code.
LICENSING OFFICIAL: Means the Town Clerk or such other officer(s) as designated
by the Town Council.
NON-OWNER OCCUPIED SHORT TERM RENTAL: Means the rental or lease of a property
for fewer than thirty (30) consecutive days where the owner or agent does not
reside in the building during the rental period.
OWNER OCCUPIED SHORT TERM RENTAL: Means the rental or lease of no more than one
unit within a primary residence property for fewer than thirty (30) consecutive
days where the owner or agent resides in the building during the rental period.
PRIMARY RESIDENCE: Means the dwelling unit where domicile has been established
(R884-24P-52). This is the usual place of return for housing as documented by
the vested title property owner of record signing an affidavit to that effect
and providing proof of voter registration in Wayne County, Utah and at least
one of the following: Utah motor vehicle registration, Utah driver's license,
Utah State identification card, or tax documents. A person can have only one
primary residence.
UNIT: Means a self-contained section of accommodations in a larger building or
group of buildings. (Ord. 2018-08, 8-9-2018)
3-4-3: LIMITATION ON SHORT TERM RENTALS:
   A.   Limitations: There shall be imposed limitations on short term rentals
as follows:
      1.   Short term rentals are not allowed in any property that is subject
to a deed restriction, covenant or other Town restriction or requirement
regarding occupancy where the use as a short term rental is inconsistent with
the intent of such deed, restriction, covenant or other Town restriction or
requirement.
      2.   The total number of licensed non-owner occupied short term rentals
shall at all times be limited to the number of short term rentals with business
licenses at the time this chapter is enacted plus the three (3) owners on the
waiting list at the time this chapter is enacted. There shall be no limit on
the total number of licensed owner-occupied short term rentals.
      3.   Licensed short term rentals shall have no limit on nights of use per
year.
      4.   There may be no more than one short term rental on any one lot. In
instances where there are multiple short term rentals on any one lot on the
effective date of this chapter, and there is a current short term rental
business license, those properties shall be licensed until ownership changes
hands or there is a lapse of licensure of said property as a short term rental
for a period of one year or more. In the interim, each unit will be treated as
an individual short term rental and must have separate short term rental
business licenses with accompanying fees.
      5.   A short term renter may not use a short-term rental for a purpose
not incidental to its use for lodging or sleeping purposes. This restriction
includes, but is not limited to, using the rental for a wedding, banquet,
reception, bachelor or bachelorette party, concert, fundraiser, sponsored
event, or any similar group activity. (Ord. 2018-08, 8-9-2018)
3-4-4: LICENSING:
   A.   License Required; Compliance:
      1.   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person
to use any property as a short term rental without first having obtained a
short term rental business license from the Torrey Town licensing official. All
short term rentals shall strictly comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   The owner of any property found to be operating a short term rental
without a Torrey Town short term rental business license after the effective
date of this chapter, shall be ordered to cease such activity on the property.
Any property that is being operated in violation of these regulations shall be
ineligible for a short term rental business license for a period of two (2)
years from the discovery of the violation as well as the penalties shown in
section
3-4-8 of this chapter.
   B.   Application:
      1.   Application, whether initial or for any renewal, for a short term
rental business license, shall be made on a form provided by the Town. At the
least, the application shall include the vested title property owner's name and
address; address of the short term rental; maximum occupancy of the rental;
owner representative and contact information; parking plan for guests; fire/
disaster escape plan for guests; acknowledgement of payment of all taxes and
the non-refundable required license fee; and applicable local, State and
Federal tax ID numbers. A grace period of ninety (90) days will be allowed for
property owners to remediate any shortcomings from inspection. A property owner
may request from the Town Council one (1) 1-month extension if said owner is
able to demonstrate a good faith effort has been made to remediate.
      2.   The vested title property owner shall be the licensee for the short
term rental.
      3.   The non-owner occupied short term rental business license may be
issued to vested title property owners. This is a one-year license. This
license carries an annual fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      4.   The owner-occupied short term rental business license may be issued
to vested title property owners who reside in their primary residence property.
The property owner is required to submit a primary resident affidavit. This is
a one-year license and carries an annual fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      5.   If a short term rental business license is granted during the
license year, the license fee is fully due and payable.
      6.   All short term rental business licenses shall have a term of one
year. Subject to the requirements of this chapter, a license may be renewed
annually, extending the term for one additional year from the expiration of the
current license.
      7.   The short term rental fee may be changed by resolution of the Town
Council.
   C.   Issuance; Renewal:
      1.   The licensing official shall deny any application, whether initial
or for any renewal, where the application and supporting documentation do not
establish the short term rental's conformity with the requirements of this
chapter. The licensing official may also deny any application that contains
false, misleading or incomplete information, or for good cause shown.
      2.   Short term rental business license issuance and renewal date is
February 1.
      3.   Final approval of license issuance is the responsibility of the
Torrey Town Council.
   D.   Suspension; Revocation:
      1.   A short term rental business license may be suspended or revoked by
the licensing official for failure to comply with this chapter.
      2.   The applicant of such short term rental business license may appeal
the licensing official's decision to suspend or revoke the short term rental
business license. An appeal of a decision to suspend, revoke or deny a short
term rental business license, must be submitted in writing within thirty (30)
days of the action. An appropriate body or person appointed by Torrey Town
Council will review and make a determination. This shall be someone other than
the licensing official.
   E.   No Transfer: A short term rental business license attaches only to the
property for which it is issued and is non- transferrable upon sale or other
transfer of ownership of the property. Upon such transfer of ownership, the new
owner of the property may apply for a short term rental business license if it
wishes to continue the use of the property as a short term rental. Such
application is no guarantee a license will be granted. (Ord. 2018-08, 8-9-2018)
3-4-5: LODGING AND SALES TAX:
The owner of a short term rental shall cause Lodging Tax, Sales Tax, and all
other applicable taxes to be collected and remitted to all appropriate and
designated agencies. (Ord. 2018-08, 8-9-2018)
3-4-6: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Short Term Rental Business License: The owner of a short term rental
property must possess a current Torrey Town short term rental business license.
The license must be renewed annually if the owner intends to use the property
as a short term rental.
   B.   New Use Of Existing Building: All buildings that have not previously
been used as short term rentals must bring the building into compliance with
all current Torrey ordinances and the current International Building Code prior
to application for a short term rental business license.
   C.   Initial Licensing Inspection: All short term rental properties are
subject to inspection prior to initial licensing or for cause. Short term
rental business licenses may be limited, suspended, revoked or not renewed by
the licensing official if all conditions and requirements of the short term
rental business and the code are not satisfied.
   D.   Fire Marshal Inspection: All short term rental properties are subject
to annual inspection by the Wayne County Fire Marshal.
   E.   Water Meter:
      1.   All short term rentals, not previously licensed by the date of
implementation of this chapter, must comply with current Torrey Town water
regulations.
      2.   Upon the effective date of this chapter, any currently licensed
short term rental units without such water meter will be licensed. This will
end upon the transfer of ownership of said property or lapse of short term
rental licensure for a period of one year or more. These properties are located
and owned by a) John and Lee Diamond, b) Joy Morris and Bernie Wuestefeld, and
c) Neal Banner.
   F.   License Number: Every short term rental business license shall be
issued a unique number.
   G.   Signage: No outdoor advertising signs related to the rental dwelling
shall be allowed on the site.
   H.   Parking Required: A Parking Plan shall be submitted with application
for a short term rental business license. This shall include a preference for
off-street parking and a suggested maximum number of vehicles.
   I.   Fire/Disaster Escape Plan Required: A Fire/Disaster Escape Plan shall
be submitted with application for a short term rental business license.
   J.   Maximum Occupancy:
      1.   The maximum occupancy of any short term rental property is ten (10)
people. Occupancy may be altered following physical inspection of the short
term rental property. The basis for occupancy determination shall be an
allowance of two (2) occupants per legitimate bedroom plus two (2) additional
occupants.
      2.   No tent or RV camping is allowed on a short term rental property
during rental periods.
   K.   Life Safety Systems; Smoke, CO Detectors, Fire Extinguisher:
      1.   An operating telephone must be provided in the unit for emergency
notifications. The phone number must be a number specifically and independently
associated with the short term rental unit. The phone number must be registered
with the Wayne County Code Red alert system. The phone number and evidence
showing Code Red alert system registration shall be provided to the licensing
official prior to issuance of a short term rental business license.
      2.   Carbon monoxide detectors, smoke detectors, chemical (ABC) fire
extinguishers, and all other safety features required by the International
Building Code are required in all short term rentals.
      3.   Fire extinguishers must be in easily accessible and identifiable
locations.
   L.   Insurance: The property owner shall maintain on file at the Town Hall
an up-to-date certificate of insurance documenting that the dwelling is insured
as a short term rental.
   M.   Renter Requirements: Each short term rental property shall prominently
display on site and make available to all renters the Advisory for Renters
provided by the Licensing Officer. The Advisory for Renters shall also be
posted on the Torrey Town website and Facebook page. (Ord. 2018-08, 8-9-2018)
3-4-7: ADMINISTRATION; PERMITTEE; LOCAL CONTACT:
   A.   Administration:
      1.   The licensing official shall prescribe forms and make reasonable
rules and requirements in accordance with this chapter for, without limitation,
application requirements, the inspection of all short term rental properties,
the verification of the capacity and safety of such short term rental
properties, and administration and enforcement of the requirements of this
chapter and the code.
      2.   Applicants must pay their license fee at the time of application,
whether for initial or for any renewal. This fee is non-refundable.
   B.   Permittee Duties: It shall be the duty of the fee title owner of the
short term rental to ensure the following:
      1.   Obtain a renewal of the short term rental business license annually,
if the property remains a short term rental.
      2.   Cause the short term rental to comply with this chapter continuously
and without interruption.
      3.   Promptly notify the licensing official upon any change of local
contact.
   C.   Local Contact:
      1.   All short term rental business licenses shall include a local
responsible contact person capable of physically responding to issues that may
arise at the short term rental property within sixty (60) minutes of the
initial attempt to contact the short term rental property owner. The local
contact must have physical access to the short term rental property and shall
be authorized to make decisions regarding the short term rental property on
behalf of the owner.
      2.   The local contact information shall be provided to the owners of all
adjacent properties and the licensing official. Notification of any change must
be provided within five (5) business days of the change. (Ord. 2018-08, 8-9-
2018)
3-4-8: VIOLATION:
   A.   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable by denial of a license
for a short term rental for the property that has offended such limitation for
a period of two (2) years from Town's discovery of the unlawful lease or
rental.
   B.   The owner of any property found to be operating a short term rental
without a Torrey Town license after the effective date of this chapter shall be
required to pay double the amount of all back taxes, and short term rental
business license fees for the entire period of unlicensed short term rental
operation.
   C.   Any short term rental business licensee violating any provisions or
failing to comply with any requirements of this chapter, in addition to other
penalties hereunder, must pay a penalty. Licensee will have ninety (90) days to
address the violation. The Torrey Town Council may grant a one-month extension
if the property owner is able to provide evidence of a good faith effort to
address the violation. A penalty of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per day
or portion of a day for each violation, beginning the 91st day after the date
of the citation (or the day after the 1-month extension ends) plus payment of
the Town's reasonable attorneys' fees, witness fees, staff time, and other
costs incurred in enforcing said penalty will be assessed.
   D.   All amounts due and owing the Town in connection with any violation of
this chapter may result in the creation of a lien as allowed by Utah Code 11-
60-101. (Ord. 2018-08, 8-9-2018)
3-4-9: REVISION:
This chapter shall be reviewed no later than five (5) years from the date of
implementation. (Ord. 2018-08, 8-9-2018)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCE AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Property Maintenance Requirements
4-1-2: Notice Of Violation; Remedies
4-1-3: Public Hearing On Removal Of Nuisance
4-1-4: Penalty
4-1-1: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
No person owning, renting, leasing, occupying or having charge or possession of
any premises within Torrey Town limits shall maintain such premises in such a
way as to allow the existence of any of the following conditions, all of which
are declared a public nuisance posing a threat to the public health, safety and
welfare of the community:
   A.   Rank, injurious, or noxious weeds at any state of maturity;
   B.   Buildings or structures which have been abandoned, partially destroyed,
improperly maintained or partially constructed;
   C.   Accumulation of garbage such as rubbish, ashes, grass cuttings, leaves,
tree limbs, branches, sticks, stones, clothing, papers, printed matter, or
other discarded things or matter;
   D.   Dead, decayed, or diseased vegetation;
   E.   Abandoned, inoperative, dilapidated or unsightly motor vehicles,
wrecked or junk cars commonly known as derby cars;
   F.   Trailers, campers, boats, RVs or other mobile equipment or motor
vehicles parked upon public streets for seven (7) days or longer in
substantially the same location;
   G.   Junk such as old scrap metals, scrap copper, brass, rope, rags,
batteries, paper trash, rubber debris, discarded tires, dismantled, demolished
motor vehicles or parts thereof;
   H.   Attractive nuisances dangerous to children;
   I.   Discarded or stored furniture, appliances, cartons, or other unsightly
items visible from public streets;
   J.   Garbage cans or containers stored in front yards except on the days of
collection;
   K.   Maintenance of premises in such condition as to be detrimental to
public health, safety or general welfare or in such manner as to constitute a
public nuisance;
   L.   Property, buildings, exteriors, or equipment unsightly or in such
condition of deterioration or disrepair that the same causes diminution of
property values of neighboring properties.
Any of the above conditions existing in a fenced or enclosed area are,
nevertheless, violations. The severity of the offenses may, however, depend
upon the visibility of the condition from the street or from adjacent
properties.
The above identified violations and the degree of severity thereof shall be
evaluated and determined in light of the adjacent properties and the general
standards of upkeep of such adjacent properties. (Ord. 2019-01.1, 1-10-2019)
4-1-2: NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REMEDIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be given
written notices specifying the violation and requiring the owners or occupants,
as the case may be, to eradicate, destroy or remove the same within such time
as the inspector may designate, which shall not be less than ten (10) days from
the date of said notice.
   B.   With respect to a motor vehicle or parts thereof, a ten (10) day notice
of intent to abate and remove the vehicle as a public nuisance shall be mailed
to the owner of the vehicle, unless ownership cannot be determined using
reasonable means.
   C.   All notices required herein shall be deemed sufficient if delivered or
mailed by regular mail with postage prepaid, and in the case of an absentee
owner addressed to such owner at his last known address as disclosed by the
records of the County Assessor.
   D.   Notice by mail shall be deemed received three (3) days following the
date of mailing, regular mail, postage prepaid to the last known address
indicated on the records of the County Assessor.
   E.   If any owner or occupant of the property described in said notice shall
fail or neglect to eradicate, destroy and/or remove such violation in
accordance with such notice, a second written notice shall be sent notifying
the owner or occupant of the property that the Town shall remove or cause to be
removed such weeds, garbage, refuse, objects or structures within such time as
the inspector may designate, which shall not be less than ten (10) days from
the date of said notice.
   F.   In connection with the second notice of violation, the owner/occupant
shall be given notice of the right to request a hearing before the Mayor and
Town Council as outlined hereinafter. A request for such hearing must be made
in writing and delivered to the Town Recorder within ten (10) days of the
second notice.
   G.   The Town will prepare an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in
the removal and destruction of the same and shall mail a copy thereof to the
property owner demanding payment within thirty (30) days of the date of
mailing. Said notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by certified mail
with postage prepaid addressed to the property owner's last known address. In
the event the owner fails to make payment of the amount set forth in said
statement to the Town within thirty (30) days, the Town may cause suit to be
brought in an appropriate court of law or may refer the matter to the County
Treasurer as hereinafter provided.
   H.   In the event collection of said costs are pursued through the courts,
the Town may sue for and receive judgment upon all of said costs of removal and
destruction together with reasonable attorney's fees, interest and court costs.
The Town may execute on such judgment in the manner provided by law.
   I.   In the event that the Town elects to refer the matter to the County
Treasurer for inclusion in the tax notice of the property owner, the Town shall
make a certified and itemized statement of all expenses incurred in the removal
and destruction of the same, and shall deliver the statement to the County
Treasurer within ten (10) days after the expiration of the 30-day period
provided for such payment.
   J.   In the enforcement of this chapter, the Town or its designated agent
shall have the right to enter upon private or public property to examine
conditions or property believed to be a nuisance and conduct an investigation,
remove or cause to be removed the property, garbage or vegetation constituting
the nuisance and such shall not constitute a trespass. (Ord. 2019-01.1, 1-10-
2019)
4-1-3: PUBLIC HEARING ON REMOVAL OF NUISANCE:
   A.   All hearings under this chapter shall be held before the Mayor and Town
Council, which shall hear all facts, and testimony it deems pertinent. Such
facts and testimony may include testimony on the condition of the property and
other relevant circumstances. The Mayor and Town Council shall not be limited
by the technical rules of evidence. The owner of the land may appear in person
at the hearing or present a sworn written statement in time for consideration
at the hearing.
   B.   The Mayor and Town Council may impose such conditions and take such
other action as it deems appropriate under the circumstances to carry out the
purpose of this chapter. It may delay the time for the abatement of the
nuisance if, in its opinion, the circumstances justify it. At the conclusion of
the hearing, the Mayor and Town Council may find that a vehicle or parts
thereof has been abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or is inoperative on private
or public property and order the same removed from the property as a public
nuisance as hereinafter provided, and determine the administrative costs and
the cost of removal to be charged against the owner of the land. The order
requiring removal shall include a description of the vehicle or parts thereof
and the correct identification number and license number of the vehicle, if
available at the site.
   C.   If the owner of the land submits a sworn written statement denying
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on his land but does not appear,
or if an interested party makes a written presentation to the Mayor or Town
Council but does not appear, he shall be notified in writing of the decision.
Such appeal shall be heard by the Mayor and Town Council, which may affirm,
amend or reverse the order, or take other action deemed appropriate. (Ord.
2019-01.1, 1-10-2019)
4-1-4: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a Class C misdemeanor. (Ord. 2019-01.1, 1-10-2019)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
CRIMINAL CODE
SECTION:
5-1-1: Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
5-1-1: CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah criminal code, Utah Code Annotated title
76, as amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction, class C misdemeanor
or class B misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the town. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this section and each such violation
shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Disturbing The Peace
5-2-2: Dogs At Large
5-2-3: Exception For Livestock
5-2-4: Impound
5-2-5: Violation; Penalty
5-2-1: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
No owner of an animal that is within the boundaries of the town shall allow the
animal to disturb the peace and quiet enjoyment of any other person. (2016
Code)
5-2-2: DOGS AT LARGE:
No dog within the boundaries of the town shall be allowed to run loose, unless
it is on real property that the dog owner owns, leases or otherwise has
permission to use. The following exceptions apply to this restriction:
   A.   The dog is in a vehicle;
   B.   The dog is under the immediate control of a person. (2016 Code)
5-2-3: EXCEPTION FOR LIVESTOCK:
This chapter does not apply to livestock, which is described in article A of
this chapter. (2016 Code)
5-2-4: IMPOUND:
If there is substantial evidence that any animal has been allowed to run loose
or to disturb the peace in violation of this chapter, the sheriff, deputy or
other law enforcement officer may impound the offending animal if the law
enforcement officer reasonably believes the animal may, in the future, repeat
the offense. If, within five (5) days after the animal is impounded, the owner
has not obtained an order from the justice court judge of Wayne County or other
appropriate court ordering the release of the animal, the animal may be
destroyed in addition to fines that may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
The owner of any animal that is impounded must pay an impound fee as
established by the town for each day the animal is impounded. (2016 Code)
5-2-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
The owner of any animal and any other person who, at the time of a violation of
this chapter, is responsible for the care of the animal involved in the
violation is guilty of a class C misdemeanor for each violation and may be
punished in accordance with the prescribed penalties under Utah law for class C
misdemeanors. Repeat offenses constitute class B misdemeanors. (2016 Code)
ARTICLE A. LIVESTOCK
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Conditional Use; Criteria
5-2A-2: Exotic Animals
5-2A-3: Properties Without Residence
5-2A-4: Trespass; Nuisance Animals
5-2A-5: Grandfather Clause
5-2A-1: CONDITIONAL USE; CRITERIA:
Criteria for raising and grazing of livestock (cattle, horses, sheep, chickens,
turkeys, pigs, goats, ducks and other domesticated livestock) may be approved
as a conditional use by the town council. In making a determination whether
raising or grazing of such livestock listed is appropriate, the town council
shall consider the following criteria:
   A.   Distance To Neighboring Dwelling Unit: Any barn, corral, coop, etc.,
must be a minimum of seventy five feet (75') from the nearest neighboring
dwelling unit.
   B.   Maximum Number: There shall be a maximum of two (2) livestock per one-
half acre.
   C.   Minimum Acreage: No livestock shall be permitted on less than one-half
(1/2) acre.
   D.   Terrain, Slope; Waste: The terrain and slope of the property must be
suitable for large livestock. This pertains to the waste not running onto the
adjacent property.
   E.   Animal Management Plan: The applicant must submit an animal management
plan outlining the following:
      1.   Waste removal/odors;
      2.   Drainage and runoff;
      3.   Bedding materials;
      4.   Flies; and
      5.   Feed/hay. (2016 Code; amd. Ord., 2-23-2022)
5-2A-2: EXOTIC ANIMALS:
Raising or maintaining of exotic animals shall be prohibited within the town
limits. (2016 Code)
5-2A-3: PROPERTIES WITHOUT RESIDENCE:
Animals are allowed on property with no domestic residence, but will be subject
to all conditions of the town animal control ordinance as outlined. (2016 Code)
5-2A-4: TRESPASS; NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   Revocation Of Privilege: If animals within the town limits are creating
a nuisance, and complaints are brought before the town council, it may be
determined by the town council that the animal privilege may be revoked if
corrective action is not taken by the animal owner.
   B.   Owner Liable: The owner is liable for trespass of livestock, which
includes cows, horses, mules, sheep, goats, chickens, turkeys, pigs, ducks,
etc., that come within the town limits and trespass upon the premises of
another person, or are creating a nuisance and generating complaints that come
before the town council.
   C.   Animals Running At Large: No person who owns or is in possession of
cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats or pigs shall be allowed to let their
animals run at large within town limits.
   D.   Violations; Corrective Action: It may be determined by the town council
any or all of the following corrective actions may be imposed upon the
livestock owner or persons responsible for the animal:
      1.   A fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) could be charged to
the owner or responsible person of the livestock.
      2.   Animals could be impounded and the owner or responsible person of
the animal must pay an impound fee as established by the town for each day the
animal is impounded and any other expenses that may occur, i.e., feeding,
transportation, time spent collecting the animals. If there is evidence that
the animal has been allowed to run loose, with no effort of restraint, a law
enforcement officer may be asked to impound the animal.
   E.   Unclaimed: If the animal is not claimed, the town may sell the animal
to cover cost incurred.
   F.   Reimbursement For Damages: The owner or responsible person of the
animal will be responsible for reimbursing the property owner for any damages
on the property caused by the animal.
   G.   Housing By Property Owner: If the property owner has a space to pen up
the animals they may do so and ask owner to pay a housing fee. (2016 Code)
5-2A-5: GRANDFATHER CLAUSE:
Existing buildings, corrals, fences and other such animal containment
structures are exempt, as well as the provisions of this chapter as outlined
above. If existing animals are removed from the property for the period of one
year or more, then the above criteria will apply. (2016 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted By Reference
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah traffic code, Utah Code Annotated title 41,
as amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction, class C misdemeanor or
class B misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the town. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this section and each such violation
shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Applicability
6-2-3: Designated Streets
6-2-4: State Restrictions Applicable
6-2-5: Prohibited Acts And Activities
6-2-6: Penalty
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ALL-TERRAIN TYPE I VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle fifty two inches (52") or less in
width, having an unladen dry weight of one thousand five hundred (1,500) pounds
or less, traveling on three (3) or more low pressure tires, having a seat
designed to be straddled by the operator, and designed for or capable of travel
over unimproved terrain.
ALL-TERRAIN TYPE II VEHICLE:
   A.   Any other motor vehicle, not defined in Utah Code Annotated section 41-
22-2(2), (11) or (22), designed for or capable of travel over unimproved
terrain.
   B.   All-terrain type II vehicle does not include golf carts, any vehicle
designed to carry a person with a disability, any vehicle not specifically
designed for recreational use, or farm tractors as defined under Utah Code
Annotated section 41-1a-102.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the operator and
designed to travel on not more than two (2) tires.
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Any "snowmobile", "all-terrain type I vehicle", "all-
terrain type II vehicle" or "motorcycle", as defined in this section.
SNOWMOBILE: Any motor vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice and steered
and supported in whole or in part by skis, belts, cleats, runners or low
pressure tires. (2016 Code)
6-2-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies to all streets and highways within the corporate limits of
the town. (Ord., 10-10-2002)
6-2-3: DESIGNATED STREETS:
Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 41-22-10.3, as amended, all streets and
highways in the town are hereby designated as open to off highway vehicle use,
except Highway 24. (Ord., 10-10-2002)
6-2-4: STATE RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE:
Persons using off highway vehicles in the town must comply with all other
restrictions set out in Utah Code Annotated title 41, chapter 22, including,
but not limited to, registration, compliance with traffic laws, vehicle
equipment, protective gear, licensing, etc. (Ord., 10-10-2002)
6-2-5: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No two (2) stroke, two (2) wheel bikes are allowed in the town limits.
   B.   The speed limit for all off highway vehicles is fifteen (15) miles per
hour. (Ord., 10-10-2002)
   C.   All off highway vehicles must ride on designated streets. (Ord., 10-10-
2002; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   No more than two (2) persons can ride on one vehicle. (Ord., 10-10-
2002)
6-2-6: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter will be a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 10-10-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
CEMETERY
SECTION:
7-1-1: Name
7-1-2: Plat Of Cemetery
7-1-3: Care, Maintenance And Management
7-1-4: Purchasing Lots
7-1-5: Fees
7-1-6: Use Of Lots
7-1-7: Transfer; Fee
7-1-8: Burial Rights
7-1-9: Certificate Of Burial Rights
7-1-10: Application For Interment
7-1-11: Burials And Markers
7-1-12: Records Maintained
7-1-13: Taxation; Assessments
7-1-14: Decoration Of Graves
7-1-1: NAME:
The burial ground of the town shall be known and designated as the Torrey Town
Cemetery. (Ord., 3-8-2012)
7-1-2: PLAT OF CEMETERY:
The mayor and town council shall file and record in the office of the county
recorder an accurate plat of the cemetery owned and controlled by the town,
which plat shall clearly show the sections of burial lots which have been
disposed of and the names of the persons owning or holding the same and the
lots held for disposal. The mayor shall file any additional plats to the said
cemetery before offering for sale any burial lots therein. (Ord., 3-8-2012)
7-1-3: CARE, MAINTENANCE AND MANAGEMENT:
   A.   The town council shall have entire control, care and management of the
cemetery. They shall keep in repair the enclosure around the cemetery to
prevent it being entered by cattle or other loose animals and, so far as
practicable, prevent the destruction of any property pertaining to the
cemetery. (Ord., 3-8-2012)
   B.   The town council shall have the authority to see that the owners or
persons in charge of the lots obey all the orders and rules and regulations of
the town council in regard to the care of the same. They shall or shall have
all walks, avenues and roadways unobstructed so access can be made to any lot.
(Ord., 3-8-2012; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   The town reserves the right to remove any existing shrubbery, trees,
curbing or fencing that interferes with the reasonable and proper care of the
cemetery or is not in conformity with the then existing rules and regulations.
   D.   The town council shall have the authority to make rules and regulations
pertaining to the operation and maintenance of the cemetery and to regulate and
fix the price of lots from time to time, as the occasion may require or as
deemed advisable. (Ord., 3-8-2012)
7-1-4: PURCHASING LOTS:
   A.   Any person wishing to purchase a lot or burial space shall contact the
town office. Payment of said lot or burial space, shall be paid to the town
treasury. A certificate of burial rights shall be made to the purchaser.
   B.   The town office shall give each purchaser a right of burial certificate
for each burial space showing the description and stating the price paid. The
town shall keep duplicates of all certificates issued as part of the town
records. (Ord., 3-8-2012)
   7-1-5: FEES:
   A.   Specified: Fees shall be charged for burial lots and burial related
services in such amounts as established by resolution of the town council.
   B.   Down Payment: When purchasing a plot, fifty percent (50%) is required
as a down payment. All remaining fees must be paid in full at the time of
burial. (Ord., 3-8-2012; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Nonresident Defined: A "nonresident" is defined as one who has not
lived in the town in the last two (2) years. (Ord., 3-8-2012)
7-1-6: USE OF LOTS:
The lots in the said cemetery shall be reserved for the use of such families
and persons as have heretofore become the purchasers of the same according to
the provisions of this chapter; to be used and possessed by them and their
heirs as a place for burial of the dead in accordance with the regulations that
are set, or that may be prescribed by ordinance or resolution of the town
council, or by the laws of the state. (Ord., 3-8-2012)
7-1-7: TRANSFER; FEE:
If a lot is transferred to another person other than an heir, a fee as
established by resolution of the town council will be charged. (Ord., 3-8-2012;
amd. 2016 Code)
7-1-8: BURIAL RIGHTS:
Burial rights are conveyed to the person or persons named therein and their
heirs. All legal heirs are presumed to have legal claim to the rights unless
specified differently in a written assignment filed with the town clerk. (Ord.,
3-8-2012)
7-1-9: CERTIFICATE OF BURIAL RIGHTS:
In all cases where the town council or any other person under the authority
shall sell or contract to sell to any persons any lot or part of lot in the
town cemetery and the same remains unconveyed to the said purchaser, it shall
be the duty of the town clerk to make and execute to the said purchaser a
certificate of burial rights. The purchaser or his heirs shall furnish proper
and satisfactory evidence showing that the lot or part of lot alleged to have
been paid for by the purchaser. (Ord., 3-8-2012; amd. 2016 Code)
7-1-10: APPLICATION FOR INTERMENT:
The town council shall dig or shall have dug any grave in the said cemetery
upon application being made by the owner or persons in charge and produce
proper evidence that the arrangement has been made with the town clerk. The
mayor shall superintend or shall have superintended every interment and shall
fill up and neatly trim the grave immediately after depositing the coffin and
trim up all the graves that may settle. (Ord., 3-8-2012)
7-1-11: BURIALS AND MARKERS:
   A.   All graves shall be dug five feet (5') deep and at least six inches
(6") within the lot boundary line. It shall be unlawful for any cement or stone
marker to be erected on any lot or burial space in said cemetery, unless the
base of any such marker is placed flush with the lawn or ground and set in a
cement foundation six inches (6") deep, provided with a lawn strip five inches
(5") wide around each marker.
   B.   One marker shall be allowed per burial plot. Two (2) cremations may be
buried in one burial plot, providing only one marker will be erected.
   C.   All burial plots, whether cremations or caskets, must have a marker.
   D.   Burials are accepted between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and four o'clock
(4:00) P.M. daily. No burials will be accepted on Sundays or holidays.
Additional charges will be made for interments on Saturdays. (Ord., 3-8-2012)
   E.   All burials in the town cemetery will be in cement vaults only,
including cremations. (Ord., 3-8-2012; amd. 2016 Code)
   F.   Not more than one casket will be allowed per burial plot. Cremains are
not allowed to be buried on top of an existing burial. Cremains are not allowed
to be scattered on cemetery grounds. (Ord., 3-8-2012)
7-1-12: RECORDS MAINTAINED:
The town office shall keep or cause to be kept a record in a book set up for
the purpose of all lot conveyances, stating the lot number and description of
lots or parts of lots conveyed, the date of conveyance and the name of the
person or persons to whom conveyed, together with the amount of money paid for
the lot or part of lot. (Ord., 3-8-2012)
7-1-13: TAXATION; ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   All lots or parts of lots shall be exempt from taxation and execution,
except it be provided that the town council shall have the right to levy an
assessment for improvements and maintenance. If any assessment which has been
made against a lot has not been paid within two (2) years after such assessment
has been levied, then the unused portion of the lot or burial space may be
advertised for sale and sold for such unpaid assessment.
   B.   Funds collected by the town for the sale of burial plots shall be used
for the care and maintenance of the cemetery. The town may, but shall have no
duty to, appropriate additional funds for the care, maintenance and upkeep of
the cemetery. In no event shall the town be responsible for the repairing or
replacement of markers or monuments damaged or destroyed by someone other than
the town, its employees or contractors. (Ord., 3-8-2012)
7-1-14: DECORATION OF GRAVES:
   A.   Funeral Flowers And Floral Pieces: Floral pieces will be removed
without notice when they become unsightly. Space owners desiring to retain
floral pieces must remove them within five (5) days after the interment.
   B.   Flower Containers:
      1.   The placing of baskets, boxes, pots, jars, wires, bottles, etc.,
will not be permitted on sodded areas, except on Memorial Day.
      2.   Permanent container must be a part of the marker or cast in the
cement foundation.
   C.   Artificial Flowers And Decorations:
      1.   Artificial flowers are permissible if placed in a permanent
container, but the location and use of such flowers shall be subject to the
policies and procedures set forth.
      2.   Artificial decorations will not be allowed on sodded areas from
April 1 to October 31, except during the Memorial Day holiday, with the
exception that flowers may be placed in permanent containers on aboveground
level monuments.
      3.   Artificial flowers and grave decorations are permitted on any
location from November 1 to March 31 and Memorial Day. Memorial Day decorations
must be removed before eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on the Monday following
Memorial Day.
   D.   Fresh Cut Flowers: Fresh cut flowers are permitted in permanent
containers anytime. (Ord., 3-8-2012)
CHAPTER 2
STREET TREES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Purpose And Intent
7-2-2: Definitions
7-2-3: Tree Advisory Board
7-2-4: Administration And Enforcement
7-2-5: Maintenance And Care By Town
7-2-6: Abuse Of Trees On Public And Town Property
7-2-7: Protection Of Public Trees Near Construction
7-2-8: Amendments; Additions
7-2-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The town recognizes and attributes substantial economic,
environmental and aesthetic value to the trees and other plantings within the
community. It is in the best interest of the citizens and public that a plan be
developed to standardize the planting and maintenance of trees within
easements, in rights of way and all other public places within the town.
   B.   Intent: It is the intent of the town council that the terms of this
chapter shall be construed as to promote:
      1.   The planning, maintenance, restoration, protection and survival of
desirable trees within the town; and
      2.   The protection of community residents from personal injury and
property damage and the protection of the town from property damage caused or
threatened by the improper planting, maintenance or removal of trees located in
and upon public areas and rights of way within the town. (Ord. 2011-1, 3-14-
2011)
7-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
HAZARDOUS TREE: A tree which threatens the public health, safety or welfare by
nature of being dead, structurally unsound or a host to communicable,
destructive disease.
HISTORIC TREE: A tree that is significant to the community forest (sum of all
trees within the town) by the nature of its unique botanic characteristics, by
being planted by a pioneer or at a site of a historic event or location.
OTHER PLANTS OR PLANTINGS: Any shrubs, grass or ground cover planted within
street rights of way or easements, or in proximity thereto.
PARK DIRECTOR: The council member or person or designee responsible for
maintenance of street trees.
PARK TREE: Any tree or woody vegetation in public parks having individual
names, and all areas owned by the town or areas to which the public has free
access as a park.
STREET TREES: Any tree planted within the town rights of way on either side of
all streets, lanes and trails within the town.
TOP OR TOPPING: The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three
inches (3") in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree as to remove
the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
TREE TRIMMING: The removal of plant parts to control growth and enhance
performance of function in the landscape by developing and preserving tree
structure and health. The removal of water sprouts, sucker growth and hanging
limbs is not considered tree trimming. (Ord. 2011-1, 3-14-2011)
7-2-3: TREE ADVISORY BOARD:
The tree advisory board shall be designated by the mayor in consultation with
the town council. The board shall consist of members of the community who are
interested in promoting the protection, health and well being of the town's
community trees. It shall be the responsibility of the board to work with the
town council to plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting,
removal and nurturing of all community trees on public areas and rights of way.
(Ord. 2011-1, 3-14-2011)
7-2-4: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The mayor, town council and park council member shall be responsible for
administrating and enforcing this chapter. He or she shall:
   A.   Have supervision of all trees planted in town rights of way or town
owned public places.
   B.   Supervise the planting, trimming, spraying, preservation and removal of
town trees and other plants in public streets, the town cemetery and park to
promote public safety and preserve the beauty of public places.
   C.   Review all new planting and development of street trees, park trees and
other plants within the town and rights of way. (Ord. 2011-1, 3-14-2011)
7-2-5: MAINTENANCE AND CARE BY TOWN:
   A.   Care And Maintenance: The tree advisory board, under the direction of
the town maintenance person and park council member, shall administer a program
for maintenance and care of town trees and rights of way.
   B.   Tree And Planting Maintenance: The town shall have the right to plant,
prune, maintain and remove trees within the town and public rights of way.
   C.   Tree Replacement: The town may replace street trees or other plantings
that have died or been removed for any reason and plant additional street trees
deemed appropriate within the town and public rights of way.
   D.   Debris Removal: The person working on trees on a street, highway or
public area shall remove all debris from the rights of way within twenty four
(24) hours of completion unless otherwise authorized by the town council. (Ord.
2011-1, 3-14-2011)
7-2-6: ABUSE OF TREES ON PUBLIC AND TOWN PROPERTY:
No person shall:
   A.   Injure, deface, disfigure or destroy any tree;
   B.   Damage, cut, carve or injure the bark of any tree with any device;
   C.   Attach wire, devices or structures to or on any street or park tree;
   D.   Cause or permit any fire or heat to injure any portion of a public tree
or shrub;
   E.   Allow any harmful gaseous, liquid or solid substance to come into
contact with, be applied to, seep, drain or emptied on or around any public
tree or plant;
   F.   Damage the roots of a public tree by compacting of filling on or around
the base of the tree within five feet (5') of the trunk so as to shut off air,
light or water from the roots;
   G.   Make or cause excavations in the soil near the roots of public trees
unless appropriate measures are taken to prevent exposed soil and roots from
drying out. (Ord. 2011-1, 3-14-2011)
7-2-7: PROTECTION OF PUBLIC TREES NEAR CONSTRUCTION:
Proper care shall be taken during the construction phase to protect the
critical root zone from compaction and excessive excavation. Any tree located
on town property in the immediate vicinity of any excavation, demolition or
construction site of any building, structure, street or utilities work, which
has the potential for injury, shall be protected from such injury, as directed
by the town. Should a tree become injured beyond the point of recovery as a
result of construction activities, the responsible party shall replace the
injured tree. (Ord. 2011-1, 3-14-2011)
7-2-8: AMENDMENTS; ADDITIONS:
Amendments to this chapter and/or additional rules and regulations may be
recommended to the town council by the tree advisory board as it deems
appropriate or necessary. They will be effective upon approval by the town
council. (Ord. 2011-1, 3-14-2011)
CHAPTER 3
USE OF RIGHTS OF WAY AND THOROUGHFARES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Encroachments
7-3-2: Improvement Of Right Of Way
7-3-3: Display Of Goods
7-3-4: Planting And Maintenance Of Trees And Shrubs
7-3-5: Remediation
7-3-6: Penalty
7-3-1: ENCROACHMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for persons owning, occupying or having control of any
premises to place or permit to be placed for more than seventy two (72) hours
upon or in the sidewalk, parking area, gutter, alley, public road, street or
street right of way next to such premises the following items, except as
authorized by ordinance, without the permission of the town council first being
had and obtained with a necessary permit:
   A.   Any garbage, which includes, but is not limited to, broken ware, glass,
filth, rubbish, sweepings, refuse matter, garbage, ashes, tin cans, lumber,
wood boxes, fencing, building material, used and discarded tires or other like
substances.
   B.   Any yard refuse, which includes, but is not limited to, dead trees,
stumps, weeds, grass clippings or other yard items of any kind.
   C.   Any permanent or temporary structure, vehicle or item, which includes,
but is not limited to, structures, mechanisms, devices, livestock feed,
firewood or other structures of any kind, i.e., fences.
   D.   Any vehicle, which includes, but is not limited to, wagons, farm
equipment, recreational vehicles, commercial diesel trucks and trailers of any
kind.
   E.   Commercial diesel trucks and trailers, or any vehicle, for any period
in front of a neighbor's property. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
7-3-2: IMPROVEMENT OF RIGHT OF WAY:
Any new development that has an estimated value of greater than one hundred
fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) shall provide for the area adjacent to
their property curb, gutter, sidewalk, street lighting and park strip
landscaping if located on Main Street. If located in a business, commercial,
agriculture or residential zone, if applicable, where paved streets do not
exist, a half street shall be paved using the same standard. In addition, a
gravel or road base shoulder shall be installed. (Ord., 3-10-2016; amd. 2016
Code)
7-3-3: DISPLAY OF GOODS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, business or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk or other public place as space for the display of goods or merchandise
for sale without permission from the town council. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
7-3-4: PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE OF TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Planting: It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or any bush in any
public road, street or street right of way or public place without having first
secured permission from the town council.
   B.   Maintenance: Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or
other public place in the town in such a way as to impede with traffic or
travel, or within ten feet (10') of a street or seven feet (7') of a sidewalk
level, shall be trimmed by the owner of the premises abutting or of the
premises on which the tree or shrub grows or stands. Town maintenance personnel
may trim any tree or shrub or may remove any tree, shrub or branch so that the
obstruction or danger to traffic or passage shall be done away with. (Ord., 3-
10-2016)
7-3-5: REMEDIATION:
   A.   Any person who violates or permits violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be given notice by the town that said personal property shall be
removed within seventy two (72) hours.
   B.   Personal property in violation of this chapter may be impounded and
removed by the town. The cost of the impoundment and removal shall be charged
to the owner or person who claims the impounded property.
   C.   In the case of emergencies, the town shall dispense with the seventy
two (72) hour notice requirement and provide the best notice practicable to
require owners or renters to remove such personal property. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
7-3-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates or permits violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 3-10-2016; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Water Department And System
8-1-2: Superintendent
8-1-3: Applicability
8-1-4: Connection Required
8-1-5: Applications For Connection And Service
8-1-6: Rates And Fees; Delinquency; Discontinuance Of Service
8-1-7: Disposition Of Fees And Charges
8-1-8: Location Of Private Lines
8-1-9: Facilities In Good Repair
8-1-10: Quality Of Service Pipe
8-1-11: Sprinkling Vehicles
8-1-12: Water Supplied To Motors, Syphons
8-1-13: Scarcity Of Water
8-1-14: Permits For Installation
8-1-15: Extension Of System By Developers
8-1-16: Prohibited Acts And Activities
8-1-17: Damage To Equipment Or System; Liability
8-1-18: Right Of Entry
8-1-19: Nonliability Of Town
8-1-20: Extraterritorial Jurisdiction
8-1-21: Penalty
8-1-1: WATER DEPARTMENT AND SYSTEM:
The culinary water department of the town is hereby created. It shall
administer the operation and maintenance of the culinary water system of the
town. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-2: SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created the position of superintendent of the
culinary water system.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The superintendent of the system shall manage and
supervise the system pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and pursuant to
resolutions, rules and regulations adopted by the town council from time to
time prescribing his powers and duties and directing the manner and frequency
with which he shall make reports to the mayor relating to the water system. All
of the functions and activities of the superintendent shall be carried on under
the direction of the mayor or council member appointed by the mayor. (Ord., 10-
14-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
When the term "water" is used in this chapter, including its use in the
application for water revenue embodied in this chapter, it shall be deemed to
apply specifically and exclusively to culinary water furnished under this
system. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-4: CONNECTION REQUIRED:
All structures, dwelling units, establishments, and persons using water from
the city water system must have such number of water meters connected to their
water system as are necessary in the judgment of the superintendent to
adequately measure use and determine water charges to the respective users.
Whenever a dispute between the superintendent and the property owner arises as
to the appropriate number of meters to be installed on any premises, the matter
shall be heard and determined by the city council after due notice in writing
to the parties involved. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-5: APPLICATIONS FOR CONNECTION AND SERVICE:
   A.   Connection Application: Any person, other than a subdivider or
developer (seeking multiple connections), who desires or is required to secure
a new connection to the culinary system, shall file with the water department
for each such connection, a written and signed connection application in such
form as is on file in the town office.
   B.   Application By Subdivider, Developer: Whenever a subdivider or
developer desires or is required to install water connections and extensions
for a subdivision or development, the subdivider or developer shall enter into
a written extension agreement, which shall constitute an application for
permission to make the extensions and connections and an agreement specifying
the terms and conditions under which the water extensions and connections shall
be made and the payments that shall be required, all of which shall be fixed by
the town and paid by the applicant.
   C.   Nonowner Applicant; Agreement Of Owner: Application for water service
made by the tenant of any owner must, in addition to the above requirements, be
guaranteed by an agreement signed by the owner of the premises or his duly
authorized agent in such form as is on file in the town office.
   D.   A water connection upon approval of the town council and water
superintendent and the availability of water can be provided for stock watering
at a commercial rate and the meter will be retained by Torrey Town. No impact
fee will be required. The water will be provided seasonally. (Ord., 10-14-2010;
amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-6: RATES AND FEES; DELINQUENCY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Set By Town Council: The rates, penalty fee for delinquency in payment,
connection fees, inspection fees, reconnection fees and other charges
incidental to the connection and services from the town's culinary water system
shall be fixed from time to time by resolution enacted by the town council. The
town council may, from time to time, promulgate rules for levying, billing,
guaranteeing, and collecting charges for culinary water services and all other
rules necessary for the management and control of the system. Rates for
services furnished shall be uniform with respect to each class or classes of
service established or that may hereafter be established. Rates may be
established at different levels for premises outside the corporate boundaries
of the town.
   B.   Special Rates: The town council may, from time to time, fix by
agreement or resolution special rates and conditions for users using
exceptionally large amounts of water service or making use of the system under
exceptional circumstances, upon such terms and conditions as they may deem
proper.
   C.   Delinquency; Discontinuance Of Service:
      1.   Statement: The town clerk or superintendent shall mail or otherwise
deliver to the address as appears on the application or as changed by written
request of applicant, a written statement outlining the amount of water service
charges assessed for the prior month or other intervals as the town council
shall direct.
      2.   Payment Date: The statement shall specify the amount of the bill for
the water service and the place of payment and date due. If any person fails to
pay the water charges within thirty (30) days from the date due, the town clerk
or superintendent shall give the consumer notice in writing of intention to
discontinue the service to the consumer unless the consumer pays the bill in
full within five (5) days from the date of notice.
      3.   Disconnection; Reconnection: If the culinary water service is
thereafter discontinued for failure to make payment, then before the water
service to the premises shall again be provided, all delinquent water charges
and reconnection fees or charges must be paid to the town or arrangements made
for their payment in a manner satisfactory to the town. A reconnection charge
for turning the water on shall be paid before redelivery of water. Until
amended by a resolution, there shall be a charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) for
redelivery of water. In addition to such payments and penalties, a delinquent
consumer may be required to make and file a new application. The town clerk is
hereby authorized and empowered to enforce the payment of all delinquent water
charges by an action at law in the name of the town, apart from and in addition
to the remedies stated in this subsection.
      4.   Interest: Delinquencies or amounts associated with the nonpayment
for any water service, or the initial hookup fee shall bear interest at the
rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month from a given due date. (Ord.,
10-14-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-7: DISPOSITION OF FEES AND CHARGES:
All connection fees and monthly user charges collected under the provisions of
this chapter shall be deposited in the town water system fund and used to meet
the operation and maintenance cost of the system; debt service on obligations
appertaining to the construction associated with the acquisition or development
of the system; and such other allocations as the town council may by resolution
provide. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-8: LOCATION OF PRIVATE LINES:
Unless prior approval is obtained from the town, all lines from the main lines
to the property serviced shall be contained within the property and within the
water service district on which services are to be delivered. Where necessary,
the obtaining and the cost of easements shall be the responsibility of the
property owner seeking water services from the town. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd.
Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-9: FACILITIES IN GOOD REPAIR:
All users of water service shall keep their service pipes, connections and
other apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at their own expense.
No person, except under the direction of the superintendent, shall be allowed
to dig into the street for the purpose of laying, removing or repairing any
service pipe. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-10: QUALITY OF SERVICE PIPE:
All service and other pipe used in conjunction with the water services of the
town shall be of such material, quality and specifications as the town council
may, from time to time by resolution, provide and shall be installed at such
distances below ground as may be specified. All work, alterations or extensions
affecting water pipes shall be subject to the acceptance of the water
superintendent and no connections with any water mains shall be made without
first obtaining a permit therefor from the town. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd. Ord.
2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-11: SPRINKLING VEHICLES:
Vehicles for sprinkling shall be regulated and controlled by the water
department through the superintendent of the water department. All water obtain
through a fire hydrant except by the fire department shall be metered and
billed at the highest commercial rate. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-
12-2023)
8-1-12: WATER SUPPLIED TO MOTORS, SYPHONS:
No water shall be supplied from the pipes of the town water system for the
purpose of driving motor, syphon, turbine or other wheels or any hydraulic
engines, or elevators, or for driving or propelling machinery of any kind
whatsoever, nor shall any license be granted or issued for any such purpose
except by special permission of the town council. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd. Ord.
2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-13: SCARCITY OF WATER:
In times of scarcity of water, whenever it shall in the judgment of the mayor
and town council be necessary, the mayor shall, by proclamation, limit the use
of water to such extent as may be necessary. It shall be unlawful for any
person, his family, servants or agents to violate any proclamation made by the
mayor in pursuance of this section. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-
2023)
8-1-14: PERMITS FOR INSTALLATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to lay, repair, alter or connect any water
line to the town culinary water system without first having obtained a
construction permit from the officer or the town clerk, or from the
superintendent. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-15: EXTENSION OF SYSTEM BY DEVELOPERS:
   A.   Petition Required: Any person or entity desiring to extend the water
system of the town to a project or development, including a subdivision, shall
submit a petition to the town. Said petition shall include a description of the
proposed extension, accompanied by maps showing the location of extensions. The
petition shall include the applicant's agreement to bear all costs and expenses
associated with such extension and the agreement to construct, install and
otherwise complete all improvements consistent with minimum standards
established by the town engineer.
   B.   Agreement For Reimbursement: Applicants, other than those proposing new
subdivisions, may include in their petition a request that the town enter into
an agreement whereby the applicant may receive reimbursement for a portion of
the costs of the extension based on subsequent connections to lines or
improvements installed by applicant. If granted, all terms and conditions of
reimbursement to the applicant shall be incorporated in a separate written
contract outlining the time within which reimbursement would be applicable, the
amount of reimbursement per subsequent connection and such other terms and
conditions as deemed appropriate and necessary by the town given the particular
facts and circumstances surrounding the application. Unless circumstances
warrant special consideration, applicants seeking to extend culinary service
lines for the development of a subdivision shall not be entitled to
reimbursement for subsequent connections to lines installed by applicant. It
shall be presumed that the applicant will establish prices for lots within the
proposed subdivision to recoup the cost of extending water lines to such
subdivision.
   C.   Compliance With Standards: No water, other than for testing purposes,
shall be turned into the new extension and improvements until all work and
improvements have been approved by the town. The town shall request
certification from a qualified engineer stating that all improvements have been
installed consistent with the minimum standards established by the town
engineer and that the improvements otherwise comply with any and all applicable
federal, state or local regulations.
   D.   Ownership Of Lines, Improvements For Extension:
      1.   Any extensions of the system shall be deemed the property of the
town, whether the cost thereof has been borne by someone other than the town,
with or without required permission.
      2.   Once accepted and connected to the town water system, all lines and
improvements installed by the developer shall belong to the town and shall be
deemed a part of the town culinary water system, subject to the town's rights
to regulate its use. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-16: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Water To Secondary Buildings, Locations: Adding additional locations
such as an accessory dwelling or accessory building shall require the written
approval of the water superintendent, be within the water service district, and
shall conform to Chapter 2 Backflow and Cross Connections.
   B.   Use Without Payment: It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to
utilize the culinary water system without proper payment therefor. It shall be
unlawful to open any pipe, line, connection, stopcock, valve or other fixtures
attached to the system of culinary water supply unless it is done pursuant to
proper application and authorization.
   C.   Turning On Water After Being Turned Off: It shall be unlawful for any
person, after the water has been turned off from the premises for nonpayment or
otherwise, to turn on or to allow the water to be turned on without authority
from the superintendent or town clerk.
   D.   Separate Connections Required: Connections to multi-family dwellings,
duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes, shall be through a single connection and
the property owner shall be liable to the town for all water services utilized
on all such premises.
   E.   Interconnections: No interconnection, cross connection or other joining
of the culinary and irrigation systems by any existing or future water user of
the town shall be permitted, and any such interconnection shall be punishable
as a class B misdemeanor and the owner of record of such property shall bear
all costs associated with the destruction and removal of such interconnecting
device or apparatus.
   F.   Open Discharge Of Pressurized System: There shall be no open discharge
of water from the culinary water system which may intermingle culinary water
with irrigation water. Any such discharge from the culinary water system shall
be a violation of this system and shall be punishable as a class B misdemeanor.
The owner of record of such property found to have any open discharge shall
bear all costs required repair or rectify the violation.
   G.   Unauthorized Users: It shall be unlawful for any water service user to
permit any person from other premises or any unauthorized person to use or
obtain water service regularly from his premises or water facilities, either
outside or inside his premises.
   H.   Faulty Equipment:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any water user to:
         a.   Waste water;
         b.   Allow it to be wasted by open stops, taps, valves or leaky pipes,
or to allow tanks or water troughs to leak or overflow;
         c.   Wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets or stops or through
basins, water closets, urinals, sinks or other apparatus;
         d.   Use the water for purposes other than for those which he has
applied or to use water in violation of the rules and regulations for
controlling the water supply.
      2.   Users of water from the culinary water system shall not permit water
to continue to run wastefully and without due efforts to conserve water. If, in
the judgment of the superintendent, a user of culinary water engages in
practices which result in the needless waste of water and continues to do so
after the notice to discontinue has been given, the superintendent or any
officer may refer the matter to the town council.
      3.   The town council may thereupon consider terminating the right of the
individual to use culinary water. If it elects to consider the matter of
termination, it shall give notice to the water user of the intention to
terminate his water connection at least five (5) days prior to the meeting of
the town council at which termination of water service is to be considered. The
notice shall inform him of the time and place of the meeting and of the charges
which lead to the consideration of the termination.
      4.   A water user whose right to utilize culinary water is being reviewed
shall have opportunity to appear, with or without counsel, and present his
reasons why his water service should not be discontinued.
      5.   After such hearing, the town council shall make a determination. If
the determination is to discontinue the wasteful water user's service
connection, it shall notify him of that decision and of the period during which
the service will remain discontinued. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd. 2016 Code; Ord.
2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-17: DAMAGE TO EQUIPMENT OR SYSTEM; LIABILITY:
   A.   All damages or injury to the lines, meters or other materials of the
town on or near the consumer's premises caused by any act or neglect of the
consumer, his guests or invitees shall be repaired by and at the expense of the
consumer. The consumer shall pay all costs and expenses, including a reasonable
attorney fee, which may arise or accrue to the town if required to repair the
damage to the lines, meters or to other equipment of the department or collect
such costs from the consumer.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to injure, deface or impair any part or component
of the water system or to cast anything into any reservoir, storage tank or
facilities appurtenant or contributing to the culinary water system. It shall
be unlawful to pollute any water source, watershed, drainage area or any other
area contributing to the culinary water system. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd. Ord.
2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-18: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   Department To Have Free Access: The superintendent and his agents shall
at all ordinary hours have free access to any place supplied with water service
from the town system for the purpose of examining the apparatus and
ascertaining the amount of water service being used and the manner of its use.
   B.   Right Of Entry On Premises Of Water User: All authorized persons
connected with the waterworks of the town shall have the right to enter upon
any premises furnished with water by the town to examine the apparatus, the
amount of water used and the manner of use, and to make all necessary shutoffs
for vacancy, delinquency or violation of the ordinances, rules or regulations
enacted or adopted by the town. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-
2023)
8-1-19: NONLIABILITY OF TOWN:
The town shall not be liable for any damage to a water service user by reason
of stoppage or interruption of his or her water supply service caused by fires,
scarcity of water, accidents to the water system or its mains, or which occurs
as the result of maintenance and extension operations, or from any other
unavoidable cause. This section shall not be construed to extend the liability
of the town beyond that provided in the governmental immunity act. (Ord., 10-
14-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-20: EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION:
The town may construct or authorize the construction of waterworks within or
without the town limits, and for the purpose of maintaining and protecting the
same from injury and the water from pollution, its jurisdiction shall extend
over the territory occupied by such works, and over all reservoirs, streams,
canals, ditches, pipes and drains used in and necessary for the construction,
maintenance and operation of the same, and over the stream or source from which
the water is taken, for fifteen (15) miles above the point from which it is
taken and for a distance of three hundred feet (300') on each side of such
stream and over highways along such stream or watercourse within said fifteen
(15) miles and said three hundred feet (300'). All ordinances and regulations,
including this chapter, are deemed necessary to carry the power herein
conferred into effect, and is to enact among other things, an ordinance
preventing pollution or contamination of the streams or watercourses from which
the inhabitants of the town derive their water supply, in whole or in part, for
domestic and culinary purposes, and this chapter prohibits the construction or
maintenance of any closet, privy, outhouse or urinal within the area over which
the town has jurisdiction, and provides for permits for the construction and
maintenance of the same, applications for which permits must be made to the
town council. In granting such permits, the town council may annex thereto such
reasonable conditions and requirements for the protection of the public health
as they deem proper, and may, if deemed advisable, require that all closets,
privies and urinals along such streams shall be provided with effective septic
tanks or other instrumentalities deemed necessary to prevent possible
contamination of the water provided through the system. (Ord., 10-14-2010; amd.
Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-1-21: PENALTY:
Without altering or diminishing the effect of any other sanction, penalty or
consequence provided in this chapter or elsewhere, the violation of, failure to
observe, or omission to comply with any provision of this chapter, shall be a
class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code. Each day of continued violation shall be a separately
punishable offense and this section shall be in addition to any other penalty,
sanction, consequence or remedy for enforcement of this chapter. (Ord., 10-14-
2010; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
CHAPTER 2
BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose
8-2-2: Responsibilities
8-2-3: Requirements
8-2-4: Discontinuance Of Service
8-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Protect the safe drinking water supply of the town from the possibility
of contamination or pollution by requiring compliance with state and local
plumbing codes, health regulations, occupational safety and health rules and
regulations and other applicable industry standards for water system safety
within the consumer's internal distribution system. Compliance with these
minimum safety codes will be considered reasonable vigilance for prevention of
contaminants or pollutants which could backflow into the public drinking
system; and
   B.   Promote reasonable elimination or control of cross connections in the
plumbing fixtures and industrial piping system of the consumer, as required by
state and local plumbing codes, health regulations, occupational safety and
health rules and regulations and other applicable industry standards to ensure
water system safety; and
   C.   Provide for the administration of a continuing program of backflow
prevention, which will systematically and effectively prevent the contamination
or pollution of all drinking water systems. (Ord. 1, 3-10-1992; amd. Ord. 2023-
01, 1-12-2023)
8-2-2: RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Town: Responsibilities of the town include:
      1.   The town shall be responsible for the protection of the drinking
water distribution system from foreseeable conditions leading to the possible
contamination or pollution of the drinking water system due to the backflow of
contaminants or pollutants into the drinking water supply.
      2.   Drinking water system surveys or inspections of the consumer's water
distribution system shall be conducted or caused to be conducted by individuals
deemed qualified by and representing the town. Survey records shall indicate
compliance with the aforementioned health and safety standards. All such
records will be maintained by the town.
      3.   The town shall notify, in writing, all consumers of the need for
periodic system surveys to ensure compliance with existing applicable minimum
health and safety standards.
      4.   Selection of an approved backflow prevention assembly for
containment control required at the service entrance shall be determined from
the results of the system survey.
      5.   Any consumer, prior to installing a sprinkler system using public
drinking water, must notify the town in writing and receive approval and must
comply with state department of health specifications.
      6.   It shall be the responsibility of the town to purchase, install and
test the first backflow prevention device or assembly required to comply with
this chapter.
   B.   Consumer: The consumer shall comply with this chapter as a term and
condition of supply and consumer's acceptance of service is admittance of his
or her awareness.
   C.   Plumbing, Contractor Or Installer:
      1.   The plumbing official's responsibility to enforce the applicable
sections of the plumbing code begins at the point of service (downstream or
consumer side of the meter) and continues throughout the developed length of
the consumer's water system.
      2.   The plumbing official will review all plans to ensure that
unprotected cross connections are not an integral part of the consumer's water
system. If a cross connection cannot be eliminated, it must be protected by the
installation of an air gap or an approved backflow prevention device or
assembly in accordance with the state plumbing code.
      3.   Water vacating the drinking water supply must do so via an approved
air gap or approved mechanical backflow prevention assembly properly installed
and in accordance with the state plumbing code. (Ord. 1, 3-10-1992; amd. Ord.
2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-2-3: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Protection Required:
      1.   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the public water purveyor unless the water supply is protected as
required by state laws, regulations, codes and this chapter. Service of water
to consumer found to be in violation of this chapter shall be discontinued by
the water purveyor after due process of written notification of violation and
an appropriate time suspense for voluntary compliance, if:
         a.   A backflow prevention assembly required by this chapter for
control of backflow and cross connections is not installed, tested and
maintained; or
         b.   If it is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been
removed or bypassed; or
         c.   If an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises; or
         d.   If the periodic system survey has not been conducted.
      2.   Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are
corrected.
   B.   Inspection: The customer's system shall be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the water purveyor to
determine whether cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violation of this chapter exist and to audit the results of the
required survey.
   C.   Existence Of Hazard: Whenever the public water purveyor deems a service
connection's water usage contributes a sufficient hazard to the water supply,
an approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on the service line
of the identified consumer's water system, at or near the property line, or
immediately inside the building being served; but, in all cases, before the
first branch line leading off the service line.
   D.   Type Of Protective Assembly: The type of protective assembly required
shall depend upon the degree of hazard which exists at the point of cross
connection (whether direct or indirect), applicable to local and state
requirements or resulting from the required survey.
   E.   Presently Installed Assemblies: All presently installed backflow
prevention assemblies which do not meet the requirements of this section but
were approved assemblies for the purposes described herein at the time of
installation and which have been properly maintained shall, except for the
inspection and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirements of
these rules so long as the water purveyor is assured that they will
satisfactorily protect the public water system. Whenever the existing assembly
is moved from the present location or requires more than minimum maintenance,
or when the water purveyor finds that the operation or maintenance of this
assembly constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by an
approved backflow prevention assembly meeting the local and state requirements.
   F.   Annual Inspections, Surveys: It shall be the responsibility of the
consumer at any premises where backflow prevention assemblies are installed to
have certified surveys/inspections, and operational tests made a least once per
year at the consumer's expense. In those instances where the public water
purveyor deems the hazard to be great, he may require certified surveys/
inspections and tests at a more frequent interval. It shall be the duty of the
public water purveyor to see that these tests are made according to the
standards set forth by the state department of health, bureau of drinking
water/sanitation.
   G.   Testing After Installation: All backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested within ten (10) working days of initial installation.
   H.   Hazardous Installation: No backflow prevention assembly shall be
installed so as to create a safely hazard. Example: Installed over an
electrical panel, steam pipes, boilers, pits, or above ceiling level. (Ord. 1,
3-10-1992; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
8-2-4: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
If violations of this chapter exist or if there has not been any corrective
action taken by the consumer within ten (10) days of the written notification
of deficiencies noted within the survey, then the public water purveyor shall
deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing a physical
break in the service line until the customer has corrected the condition in
conformance with the state and city statutes relating to plumbing, safe
drinking water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto. (Ord. 1,
3-10-1992; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-12-2023)
CHAPTER 3
WATER IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Uniform Application
8-3-1: UNIFORM APPLICATION:
The Torrey Town council as trustees of the Torrey Town water department resolve
that the Torrey Town water department, including subsequently annexed areas, be
and is a single service area as allowed by Utah Code Annotated section 11-36a-
102(19)(b) and the impact fees adopted shall uniformly be applied throughout
the Torrey Town water department. (Ord. 2016-2, 10-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-01,
1-12-2023)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING AND RELATED CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Purpose And Intent
9-1-2: Codes Adopted
9-1-3: Successor Codes
9-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish the regulatory codes
and guidelines to govern construction within the town in a thorough and concise
manner while also providing for the adoption of changes to the codes and
guidelines without the necessity of adopting new ordinances for each change or
amendment to said codes and guidelines. (2016 Code)
9-1-2: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Building Code: The international building code (IBC), as adopted by the
state, is hereby adopted as the official building code for the town, subject to
section
9-1-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Fire Code: The international fire code (IFC), as adopted by the state,
is hereby adopted as the official fire code for the town, subject to section
9-1-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Other Codes As Approved: All other building, plumbing, electrical,
mechanical, property maintenance, energy and/or natural gas codes established
and adopted as standard by the state at the time of adoption of the ordinance
codified herein, including their amendments, shall hereby become established as
the adopted codes of the town, subject to section
9-1-3 of this chapter. (2016 Code)
9-1-3: SUCCESSOR CODES:
The adoption of any and all codes, as established herein, as the adopted codes
of the town, shall also adopt any replacement or successor codes as they become
adopted by the state and shall become effective by the town immediately upon
passage by the state legislature. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING PERMITS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Building Permit Required; Exceptions; Fees
9-2-2: Application And Plans
9-2-3: Inspections
9-2-4: Setbacks
9-2-5: Conflicts
9-2-6: Penalty
9-2-1: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS; FEES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to construct or alter, repair, move, demolish or
change the occupancy of any building or structure in the town where the effect
of such construction or alteration is to enlarge the capacity or affect the
bearing walls of any building, or the roof thereof, without having first
secured a permit. It will also be necessary to obtain a permit for fencing,
driveways and ingress that may infringe upon the town right of away.
   B.   The international building code allows up to two (2) layers of shingles
without tearing off and without needing a building permit. If the applicant
removes the shingles down to the board, a building permit is required.
   C.   A building permit is not required for flat work cement, i.e.,
sidewalks, driveways that do not infringe on the town right of way, basketball
pad, flat cement patio area; however, a building permit is required if building
on the cement.
   D.   A building permit is not required for a storage shed one hundred twenty
(120) square feet or smaller. The shed may not have any plumbing or electrical
work.
   E.   A building permit is required on all fences, with a fee as established
by the town council. Masonry fence fees are based on cost.
   F.   There is no minimum or maximum dollar amount on the requirement for a
building permit.
   G.   All building permit fees, other than those listed, are based on the
square footage fee schedule contained in the international building code.
   H.   The town council shall have the power to determine and change building
permit fees through resolution. (Ord. 4-2015, 12-10-2015; amd. 2016 Code)
9-2-2: APPLICATION AND PLANS:
   A.   A building permit shall be secured from the town clerk on written
application, accompanied by plans and specifications in duplicate, in which
must state the specific nature of the construction or alterations to be made.
The plan must be verified by the person who will perform or be in charge of the
construction or alteration.
   B.   Such applications with plans shall be referred to the building
inspector, who shall examine the plans to determine whether the proposed
construction or alteration will comply with the relevant ordinance provisions.
The town will follow the international building code. Upon approval, the set of
plans shall be returned to the applicant with a permit. If duplicate plans were
submitted, the other shall be retained by the building inspector. No permit
shall be issued until after the approval of the plans.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to vary materially from the submitted plans and
specifications, unless such variations are submitted to and approved by the
building inspector in an amended plan. (Ord. 4-2015, 12-10-2015; amd. 2016
Code)
9-2-3: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The inspector is hereby authorized to inspect or cause to be inspected
all buildings and structures in the course of construction, modification or
repair, and to inspect building and land uses to determine compliance with the
provision of this chapter.
   B.   The town contracts with the Wayne County building inspection service.
The inspector does not serve as a teacher or instructor on projects. The
inspector's responsibilities are to inspect completed work and note any
deficiencies and required corrections.
   C.   Requests must be made at least twenty four (24) hours in advance to the
inspector. (Ord. 4-2015, 12-10-2015)
9-2-4: SETBACKS:
Any new structures must abide by the following setbacks:
   A.   Twenty four feet (24') along the front;
   B.   Twelve feet (12') side and rear.
   C.   Corner lots need twenty four feet (24') front and street side from
property line. (Ord. 4-2015, 12-10-2015)
9-2-5: CONFLICTS:
This chapter shall supersede any contradiction between any other town
ordinances or any international or other building codes. (Ord. 4-2015, 12-10-
2015; amd. 2016 Code)
9-2-6: PENALTY:
Any owner, architect, contractor or handyman that commences work without first
securing a permit required shall be guilty of the offense of starting
construction without a building permit. When the building inspector or other
authorized person learns of a violation, he or she shall have authority to
require that the work stop immediately and that it not continue until an
authorized person acquires a building permit. The fee for the building permit
obtained after work has commenced shall be double the amount it would have cost
if the applicant had complied with this chapter. (Ord. 4-2015, 12-10-2015)
CHAPTER 3
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Purpose
9-3-2: General Provisions
9-3-3: Sign Permit Required
9-3-4: Business License Required
9-3-5: Application
9-3-6: Land Use Authorities For Sign Applications
9-3-7: Standards Of Electrical Construction
9-3-8: Lighting Standards
9-3-9: Maintenance Required
9-3-10: Exempt Signs
9-3-11: Prohibited Signs
9-3-12: Noncomplying Signs
9-3-13: Unused And Abandoned Signs
9-3-14: Enforcement
9-3-15: Definitions
9-3-16: Tables
9-3-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is provided to achieve the purposes of the general plan, this
chapter and all other land use ordinances, and to achieve the following
additional purposes:
   A.   To provide for the necessary identification of businesses, sites and
buildings.
   B.   To provide a convenient method of public communication without
unnecessary clutter or obtrusiveness.
   C.   To avoid confusion of allowed signs with required traffic signs and
other regulatory and public safety signs.
   D.   To minimize any adverse effects of signs and associated lighting on
adjacent properties. (Ord., 2-12-2015; amd. Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021)
9-3-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: No sign shall be erected, moved, reconstructed,
enlarged or structurally altered except in compliance with the requirements of
this chapter.
   B.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all signs but does not apply
to any signs located within the interior of any buildings or structures that
are not visible from the outside, or handheld placards and other similar
devices traditionally used for public protest and the noncommercial exercise of
free speech.
   C.   Placement: No part of any sign shall be permitted within three feet
(3') of any road or street right of way or utility easement and all signs must
maintain necessary clearances from underground or overhead power transmission
lines, as required by the electrical power provider.
   D.   Interference with Fire Protection: No sign, or part thereof, shall be
permitted in a manner that any portion of its surface or support will interfere
with the free use of fire protection appliances, including hydrants,
standpipes, automatic fire sprinkler connections and similar fire protection
and suppression equipment. No sign or sign structure shall obstruct any fire
lane.
   E.   Clear View Area: No sign shall be permitted to be located in any clear
view area, as defined herein, and no sign shall be permitted that creates any
traffic hazard. (Ord., 2-12-2015; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021)
9-3-3: SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   In compliance with the building code, as adopted, and as applicable, no
sign shall be erected, moved, reconstructed, enlarged or structurally altered
unless a valid sign permit application has been approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
   B.   The requirement for a sign permit shall apply to all new signs and
existing signs that are proposed to be erected, moved, reconstructed, enlarged,
or structurally altered, unless allowed as a “limited sign”.
   C.   The building official, or designee, shall inspect, or reinspect, any
sign for which a sign permit has been issued and for which an inspection is
required. Such inspections shall ensure that all signs are in conformance with
this chapter and the building code, as adopted.
   D.   The expiration date for all sign permits shall be as provided by the
building code, as adopted. (Ord., 2-12-2015; amd. Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021)
9-3-4: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
All businesses and services advertised on any sign located within the town
shall maintain all necessary local, county and state approvals, licenses and
permits, including a valid local business license, as applicable. (Ord., 2-12-
2015; amd. Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021)
9-3-5: APPLICATION:
The town has a sign application that will be made available to all potential
applicants at the town hall during normal business hours also at the Torrey
Town website. (Ord., 2-12-2015; amd. Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021)
9-3-6: LAND USE AUTHORITIES FOR SIGN APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Planning Commission: The planning commission is authorized as the
authority to conduct an initial review and preliminary approval of a sign
application and to make a recommendation to the Town Council regarding the
application.
   B.   Town Council: The town council is authorized as the authority for final
approval of all sign applications. (Ord., 2-12-2015; amd. Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-
2021)
9-3-7: STANDARDS OF ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION:
No sign involving any electrical components, wiring or connections shall be
erected or installed, except by a licensed and bonded electrical contractor or
sign contractor. (Ord., 2-12-2015; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021)
9-3-8: LIGHTING STANDARDS:
The types of signs allowed within the town are identified in section
9-3-16, table 1, “Allowed Signs”, of this chapter. In addition to the sign
requirements provided in section
9-3-16, table 1 of this chapter, the following sign lighting requirements are
provided to achieve the purposes of this chapter:
   A.   External Illumination: Externally illuminated signs are permitted as
follows:
      1.   All externally lit signs shall be illuminated with steady, fully
shielded light sources aimed directly onto the sign. Light bulbs or lighting
tubes used for illuminating a sign shall not be visible from any location.
      2.   The intensity of sign lighting shall not exceed that necessary to
illuminate a sign from the closest adjacent public right of way. Maximum
luminance may not exceed 60 nits.
      3.   No fixture used to illuminate signs shall be directed toward any
other property or public right of way.
      4.   All light sources shall be fully shielded or hooded.
      5.   Light from external sources may not project beyond the edge of the
sign face in any direction, whether onto another property or into the night
sky.
   B.   Internal Illumination: Internally illuminated signs are permitted as
follows:
      1.   Individual backlit letters that are silhouetted against an
illuminated wall.
      2.   Individual letters with translucent faces, containing lighting
elements inside each letter.
      3.   Metal faced box signs with cutout letters and soft glow fluorescent
tubes.
      4.   The intensity of sign lighting shall not exceed that necessary to
illuminate a sign from the closest adjacent public right of way. Maximum
luminance may not exceed 60 nits.
   C.   Lighting Times: A sign shall only be illuminated during the hours of
operation of the use, business or activity being identified or advertised up to
one hour after closing. (Ord., 2-12-2015; amd. Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021)
9-3-9: MAINTENANCE REQUIRED:
All signs shall be structurally sound and maintained in good repair and
condition. (Ord., 2-12-2015; amd. Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021)
9-3-10: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The signs identified in section
9-3-16, table 5, “Exempt Signs”, of this chapter are exempt from the
requirements of this chapter, provided such signs are not determined to be a
prohibited sign, as provided by section
9-3-11 of this chapter. (Ord., 2-12-2015; amd. Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021)
9-3-11: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
All signs allowed within the town are identified in section
9-3-16, table 1, “Allowed Signs”, or 5, “Exempt Signs”, of this chapter. All
other signs are hereby declared to be prohibited signs within the town,
including, but not limited to, the following signs:
   A.   All off premises signs designed or intended to direct attention to a
business, product or service that is not sold, offered or existing on the
property where the sign is located, including all billboards.
   B.   Signs on any city owned property, except for signs maintained by the
town.
   C.   All signs erected, moved, reconstructed, enlarged or structurally
altered without receiving the necessary sign application approval.
   D.   Signs placed on private property without the approval of the owner.
   E.   Flashing signs or lights that contain intermittent, pulsating or
flashing light sources.
   F.   Any text or shape that obstructs the view of motor vehicle operators,
bicyclists and pedestrians entering a public roadway from any parking area,
driveway, alley or other thoroughfare.
   G.   All signs that obstruct free ingress to or egress from required door,
window, fire escape or other required exit.
   H.   Signs attached to any fences, utility poles, trees, shrubs, rocks or
other natural objects, unless specifically included in the design, and unless
specifically provided for by law.
   I.   All signs constituting a hazard to public health, welfare or safety.
   J.   All roof mounted signs.
   K.   All signs painted on or attached to vehicles that are parked on the
public right of way or on private premises for the purpose of advertising,
unless such vehicles are currently in use for normal business operations
associated with the business being advertised.
   L.   All signs providing a lighting source that is exposed or directly
visible from any public right of way or adjacent property.
   M.   Any sign, statement, symbol or picture of an obscene nature. (Ord., 2-
12-2015; amd. Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021)
9-3-12: NONCOMPLYING SIGNS:
   A.   All signs permitted within the town shall comply with section
9-3-16, table 1, “Allowed Signs”, or 5, “Exempt Signs”, of this chapter, unless
such signs are determined to be a legal noncomplying sign. All legal
noncomplying signs may continue, subject to the requirements of continual
maintenance and other town ordinances as applicable.
   B.   In a case where a business is sold or a property changes ownership, an
existing sign that may be out of compliance with this chapter must be updated
and brought into compliance with this chapter. (Ord., 2-12-2015; amd. 2016
Code; Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021)
9-3-13: UNUSED AND ABANDONED SIGNS:
A sign shall be considered unused or abandoned and shall be removed after the
use, activity, product, business or service which it advertised has ceased or
has vacated the building, structure, lot or parcel for a period greater than
one calendar year. All unused or abandoned signs shall be removed by the
property owner, upon written notice by the town council or other city staff and
shall be subject to removal by the town if not removed by the property owner
within thirty (30) calendar days of notice by the town council. The town
reserves the right to charge the sign owner for the costs associated with the
sign removal and, if necessary, to place a lien on the property or pursue other
means of collection allowed under law. (Ord., 2-12-2015; amd. Ord. 8-21-4, 8-
12-2021)
9-3-14: ENFORCEMENT:
Any sign determined to be a hazard to the public health or safety, or
determined to be a nuisance because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, or
be a land use ordinance or building code violation, shall be remedied and
corrected upon notice by the town council or building inspector. Any sign not
remedied or corrected within thirty (30) calendar days’ written notice by the
town council or building inspector shall be subject to removal by the town or
other remedies that may be available to the town under the law. (Ord., 2-12-
2015; amd. Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021)
9-3-15: DEFINITIONS:
 
BLADE SIGN:  A projecting sign mounted on a building facade attached to a surface perpendicular to
             the normal flow of traffic.
FREESTANDING A sign supported permanently upon the ground by poles, pylons, braces, or a solid base
SIGN:        and not attached to any building. Freestanding signs include those signs otherwise
             known as “pedestal signs,” “pole signs,” “pylon signs,” and “monument signs.”
SHIELDED     A fixture that is designed, installed and directed such that there is no direct
FIXTURE:     emission of light by any element of the fixture above a horizontal plane running
             through the lowest light-emitting portion of the fixture with respect to grade
             A freestanding sign having the appearance of a solid base of landscape construction
MONUMENT     materials such as brick, stucco, stonework, textured wood, tile or textured concrete
SIGN:        materials compatible with the materials of the primary structure on the subject
             property.
NITS:        Candela per square meter, one candela is the light given off by a typical candle.
             A sign supported on one or more piers, not attached to a building or other structure,
PYLON SIGN:  and includes a detached sign framework supported on one or more piers to which sign
             infill may be added
SEASONAL/    Any sign intended to be used for a limited period of time, not for a permanent
TEMPORARY    installation. (Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021)
SIGN:
 
9-3-16:TABLES:
   TABLE 1: ALLOWED SIGNS
                 Sign Type
Sign Requirement Freestanding                        Wall/Blade/ Seasonal/
                 (Monument, Pylon, and Ranch Gate)  Building    Temporary
Sign            Sign Type
Requirement     Freestanding                        Wall/Blade/   Seasonal/
                (Monument, Pylon, and Ranch Gate)  Building      Temporary
                                                    2 wall signs
                1 freestanding sign for each lot or for each
Number of signs parcel. Only 1 pylon or monument    business or
allowed         sign per road frontage adjacent to  one two-sided  
                business                            blade sign on
                                                    each building
                                                    side.
                                                    As provided
                                                    by tables 2 &
                                                    3 of this
                                                    section. No
                                                    blade sign
                                                    shall extend
                                                    above the
                                                    parapet wall
                                                    of the
                                                    storefront
                                                    building.
                                                    Blade signs
                                                    shall provide As provided
Maximum sign    As provided by table 2 of this      a minimum     by table 4 of
area2           section                             clearance of  this section
                                                    4" between
                                                    the
                                                    storefront
                                                    and signface.
                                                    Blade signs
                                                    shall project
                                                    a maximum of
                                                    48" from the
                                                    storefront
                                                    and shall
                                                    have a
                                                    maximum 44"
                                                    width.
                                                    8 feet above
                                                    natural or
                                                    finished
                                                    grade,
                                                    whichever is
                                                    higher. For
                                                    blade signs,
                                                    7'-6"
                                                    clearance
                                                    shall be      No higher
                                                    provided      than the eave
                15 feet above natural or finished   between the   line or top
Maximum height1 grade, whichever is higher          baseline of   of the
                                                    any sign and  parapet wall
                                                    the sidewalk. of the
                                                    A maximum     building
                                                    depth of 12"
                                                    if located at
                                                    a height less
                                                    than 9'-0",
                                                    and a maximum
                                                    depth of 18"
                                                    if located at
                                                    9'-0" height
                                                    or higher.
                                                                  No seasonal/
                                                                  temporary
                                                                  wall sign
                                                                  shall project
                                                                  above or
Minimum sign    A minimum clearance of 9 feet above No            below the
clearance       grade or as approved by the town    requirement   highest or
                council                                           lowest part
                                                                  of the wall
                                                                  upon which
                                                                  the sign is
                                                                  mounted or
                                                                  painted
                                                    Must meet the Must meet the
                                                    requirements  requirements
Sign location   As approved by the Planning and     of the        of the
                Zoning Commission.                  building with building with
                                                    which it is   which it is
                                                    associated    associated
                                                                  No part
                                                                  within 3 feet
                                                                  of any road
                                                                  right of way,
                                                    No part over  property line
                                                    the property  or utility
                No part within 3 feet of any road   line or into  easement, and
                or street right of way, property    any road      must maintain
                line or utility easement, and must  right of way  necessary
Maximum         maintain necessary clearances from  or utility    clearances
projection      underground or overhead power       easement. No  from
                transmission lines, as required by  wall sign     underground
                the electrical power provider. All  shall project or overhead
                signs must maintain clear view      more than 12  power
                requirements                        inches from   transmission
                                                    the wall      lines, as
                                                    surface       required by
                                                                  the
                                                                  electrical
                                                                  power
                                                                  provider.
                                                    Must meet the
                May be located in the required yard requirements  As approved
Minimum setback setback area, provided no portion   of the        by the
requirements   of the sign is closer than 3 feet   building or   Planning and
                to any property line, road or       structure     Zoning
                street right of way                 with which it Commission.
                                                    is associated
                                                    Signs must be
                                                    designed to
                                                    be an
                                                    integral site
                                                    and/or
                                                    building
                                                    design
                Signs must be designed to be an     element. All
                integral site and/or building       signs shall
                design element. All signs shall be  be compatible
Design         compatible in design, style, color  in design,     
                and materials with the existing or  style, color
                proposed buildings or structures to and materials
                which the sign is associated.       with the
                                                    existing or
                                                    proposed
                                                    buildings or
                                                    structures to
                                                    which the
                                                    sign is
                                                    associated.
                                                    No sign or    No sign or
                                                    sign          sign
                                                    structure     structure
                                                    shall be      shall be
                                                    permitted     permitted
                                                    that will     that will
                                                    interfere     interfere
                                                    with the free with the free
                                                    use of all    use of all
                No sign or sign structure shall be  fire          fire
                permitted that will interfere with  appliances,   appliances,
                the free use of all fire            including     including
Fire            appliances, including hydrants,     hydrants,     hydrants,
suppression     standpipes, automatic fire          standpipes,   standpipes,
access          sprinkler connections, and similar  automatic     automatic
                fire protection and suppression     fire          fire
                equipment. No sign shall obstruct   sprinkler     sprinkler
                any fire lane                       connections,  connections,
                                                    and similar   and similar
                                                    fire          fire
                                                    protection    protection
                                                    and           and
                                                    suppression   suppression
                                                    equipment. No equipment. No
                                                    sign shall    sign shall
                                                    obstruct any  obstruct any
                                                    fire lane     fire lane
                                                    No sign shall No sign shall
                                                    be located in be located in
                                                    any clear     any clear
                                                    view area at  view area at
                No sign shall be located in any     a road        a road
Clear view      clear view area at a road           intersection  intersection
area3           intersection and no sign shall be   and no sign   and no sign
                permitted that creates any traffic  shall be      shall be
                or pedestrian hazard                permitted     permitted
                                                    that creates  that creates
                                                    any traffic   any traffic
                                                    or pedestrian or pedestrian
                                                    hazard        hazard
                                                    A valid       A valid
                                                    building      building
                                                    permit may be permit may be
                                                    necessary, as necessary, as
                                                    required by   required by
                                                    the adopted   the adopted
                                                    building      building
                                                    code. All     code. All
                                                    signs for     signs for
                                                    which a       which a
                A valid building permit may be      building      building
                necessary, as required by the       permit is     permit is
                adopted building code. All signs    required,     required,
                for which a building permit is      including     including
Building permit required, including necessary       necessary     necessary
required        footings, structural permits or     footings,     footings,
                electrical permits, shall comply    structural    structural
                with the requirements of the        permits or    permits or
                building code, as adopted, and      electrical    electrical
                shall be subject to inspection      permits,      permits,
                                                    shall comply  shall comply
                                                    with the      with the
                                                    requirements  requirements
                                                    of the        of the
                                                    building      building
                                                    code, as      code, as
                                                    adopted, and  adopted, and
                                                    shall be      shall be
                                                    subject to    subject to
                                                    inspection    inspection
                                                    All           All
                                                    businesses    businesses
                                                    and services  and services
                                                    advertised    advertised
                                                    shall         shall
                                                    maintain      maintain
                All businesses and services         necessary     necessary
Valid business  advertised shall maintain necessary licenses and  licenses and
license         licenses and permits, as may be     permits, as   permits, as
required        required by the state, the county   may be        may be
                and the town business licensing     required by   required by
                requirements as applicable          the state,    the state,
                                                    the county    the county
                                                    and the town  and the town
                                                    business      business
                                                    licensing     licensing
                                                    requirements  requirements
                                                    as applicable as applicable
                                                    All signs     All signs
                                                    shall be      shall be
Sign            All signs shall be structurally     structurally  structurally
maintenance     sound and maintained in good repair sound and     sound and
                                                    maintained in maintained in
                                                    good repair   good repair
                                                    Any sign      Any sign
                                                    determined to determined to
                                                    be a hazard   be a hazard
                                                    to the public to the public
                                                    health,       health,
                                                    welfare or    welfare or
                                                    safety, or    safety, or
                                                    determined to determined to
                                                    be a nuisance be a nuisance
                                                    because of    because of
                                                    inadequate    inadequate
                                                    maintenance,  maintenance,
                                                    dilapidation  dilapidation
                                                    or building   or building
                                                    code          code
                                                    violation,    violation,
                Any sign determined to be a hazard  shall be      shall be
                to the public health, welfare or    remedied upon remedied upon
                safety, or determined to be a       notice by the notice by the
                nuisance because of inadequate      town council  town council
                maintenance, dilapidation or        or building   or building
                building code violation, shall be   inspector.    inspector.
                remedied upon notice by the town    Any sign not  Any sign not
                council or building inspector. Any  remedied      remedied
Enforcement     sign not remedied within 30 days of within 30     within 30
                said notice shall be subject to     days of said  days of said
                removal by the town, or other       notice shall  notice shall
                remedies that may be available to   be subject to be subject to
                the town. The town reserves the     removal by    removal by
                right to charge the property or     the town, or  the town, or
                business owner reasonable costs for other         other
                sign removal and pursue collection  remedies that remedies that
                methods allowed under law, if       may be        may be
                necessary                           available to  available to
                                                    the town. The the town. The
                                                    town reserves town reserves
                                                    the right to  the right to
                                                    charge the    charge the
                                                    property or   property or
                                                    business      business
                                                    owner         owner
                                                    reasonable    reasonable
                                                    costs for     costs for
                                                    sign removal  sign removal
                                                    and pursue    and pursue
                                                    collection    collection
                                                    methods       methods
                                                    allowed under allowed under
                                                    law, if       law, if
                                                    necessary     necessary
                                                    All signs     All signs
                                                    shall only be shall only be
                                                    permitted at  permitted at
                                                    the location  the location
Off premises    All signs shall only be permitted   of the        of the
signs           at the location of the activity,    activity,     activity,
prohibited      business, or service connected with business, or  business, or
                the message of the sign             service       service
                                                    connected     connected
                                                    with the      with the
                                                    message of    message of
                                                    the sign      the sign
                                                    Where more    Where more
                                                    than one      than one
                                                    business      business
                Where more than one business        occupies a    occupies a
Multiple        occupies a lot or building, one (1) lot or        lot or
Businesses      freestanding sign with all          building, one building, one
                businesses listed is allowed.       (1) wall or   (1) temporary
                                                    blade sign is sign is
                                                    allowed per   allowed per
                                                    business.     lot.
                                                                  As approved
                                                                  by the
Time Limit      N/A                                 N/A           Planning and
                                                                  Zoning
                                                                  Commission.
 
NOTES:
1.   Maximum Sign Height: The height from the highest point of the structure to
the lowest point of the finished or natural grade, immediately adjacent to the
structure. No ground shall be bermed, or other earthwork provided, that would
have the effect of exceeding the maximum allowed sign structure height.
2.   Maximum Sign Area: The area of the sign calculated by multiplying the
highest point of the sign by the longest length of the sign and including all
text, insignia, logo or other advertising or identification materials.
3.   Clear View Area: Defined as that area at a street or road intersection
that is necessary to allow drivers an unobstructed view of traffic coming from
any direction, thus allowing traffic to move safely through the intersection.
(Ord., 2-12-2015; amd. Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021; Ord., 2-23-2022)
   TABLE 2: MAXIMUM ALLOWED SIZE OF FREESTANDING PYLON SIGNS
Lot Frontage Maximum Pylon Sign Area
(Feet)       (Square Feet)
Lot Frontage Maximum Pylon Sign Area
(Feet)       (Square Feet)
<50          0
50-79        32
80-89        35
90-99        38
100-109      42
110-119      45
120-129      48
130-139      52
140-149      55
150-159      60
160-169      70
170-179      72
180-189      75
190-199      80
200-209      82
210-219      85
220-229      90
230-239      92
240-249      95
250          100
 
(Ord., 2-12-2015; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021)
   TABLE 3: MAXIMUM ALLOWED SIZE OF FREESTANDING MONUMENT SIGNS
Lot Frontage Maximum Monument Sign Area
(Feet)       (Square Feet)
Lot Frontage Maximum Monument Sign Area
(Feet)       (Square Feet)
<50          0
50-59        60
60-69        64
70-79        68
80-89        72
90-99        76
100-109      80
110-119      84
120-129      88
130-139      92
140-149      96
150          100
 
    TABLE 4: MAXIMUM ALLOWED
   SIZE OF WALL SIGNS
 
Wall Area     Maximum Wall Sign Area
(Square Feet) (Square Feet)
<100          0
100-1,000     10 percent of wall area
1,000         100
 
   TABLE 5: EXEMPT SIGNS
Sign Type Sign Requirements
Sign Type                               Sign Requirements
                                        Posters and fliers announcing or
                                        promoting community events, provided
Community events posters and            such posters or fliers do not advertise
announcements                           products or services not associated
                                        with the event. Signs and fliers must
                                        be removed or taken down 1 week (7
                                        days) following the event.
                                        Directional signs such as "Enter" and
                                        "Exit", provided:
                                        a) there shall be no more than 2
Directional signs                       directional signs per driveway entrance
                                        to a lot or parcel; b) no directional
                                        sign shall be greater than 4 square
                                        feet in area and have a height greater
                                        than 3 feet above grade.
                                        Any flag of any national, state,
                                        county, city, civic, religious
                                        organization or educational
                                        institution. Freestanding flagpoles
Flags                                   must be limited in height to the same
                                        standard as pole signs in the town, and
                                        roof mounted flagpoles must be limited
                                        in height to the county height
                                        limitations on residential and
                                        commercial buildings.
                                        Plaques erected for the purposes of
Historic plaques                        identifying a historic site, building
                                        or structure.
                                        A commercial business located within
                                        the town may advertise a special
                                        service, product or sale during the
                                        following holiday periods, but limited
                                        as follows:
                                         
                                        A. Only 1 sign, not to exceed 32 square
                                        feet, such sign being secured to the
                                        building where the commercial products
                                        are sold or services provided. This
                                        sign shall be removed the first
                                        business day after the end of the
                                        holiday period.
                                         
                                        B. Holiday periods when a holiday
                                        promotion sign is permitted:
                                         
                                        President's Day and Valentine's Day: 5
                                        business days, including the holiday.
                                         
Holiday promotion signs                 Easter: 5 business days including the
                                        holiday.
                                         
                                        Memorial Day: 5 business days,
                                        including the holiday.
                                         
                                        Independence Day: 5 business days,
                                        including the holiday.
                                         
                                        Pioneer Day: 5 business days, including
                                        the holiday.
                                         
                                        Labor Day: 5 business days, including
                                        the holiday.
                                         
                                        Thanksgiving: 7 business days,
                                        including the holiday.
                                         
                                        Hanukkah, Christmas, New Year's Day: A
                                        maximum of 35 days beginning no sooner
                                        than December 1.
                                        1 unlighted "hours of operation" sign
Hours of operation                      allowed per entrance not larger than 1
                                        square foot in area.
                                        Official government notices and notices
Official notices                        posted by government officers or
                                        employees in the performance of their
                                        duties.
                                        Political signs used to identify and
                                        for the support of candidates for
                                        national, state, county, city, school
                                        board, service district or other public
                                        office, provided such signs meet the
                                        following requirements:
                                         
                                        A. Are stationary and unlighted.
                                         
                                        B. Are not erected earlier than 60 days
Political signs                         prior to the specified voting day.
                                         
                                        C. Are removed within 7 days after the
                                        specified voting day.
                                         
                                        D. Are not located within any clear
                                        view area.
                                         
                                        E. Signs placed on private property are
                                        permitted only with the permission of
                                        the property owner.
                                        Signs required for safety or
Public necessity signs                  instructional purposes, installed and
                                        maintained by the town, the county or
                                        other federal or state agency.
                                        Signs posted by a property owner and
Public notice signs                     designed to advise the public of "No
                                        Trespassing", "No Fishing" and/or "No
                                        Hunting" are permitted by owner.
                                        A real estate sign advertising real
                                        property for sale, lease or rent within
                                        the town, provided such signs meet the
                                        following requirements:
                                         
                                        A. A maximum of 1 real estate sign per
                                        street frontage.
                                         
                                        B. Such signs are placed on or adjacent
                                        to the property that is for sale, lease
                                        or rent.
                                         
                                        C. Such signs are stationary and
                                        unlighted.
                                         
                                        D. Signs must be professionally
Real estate signs                       prepared, neat in appearance and well
                                        maintained.
                                         
                                        E. Such signs are removed within 30
                                        days from the date of sale, lease or
                                        rental.
                                         
                                        F. Such signs shall not exceed 6 square
                                        feet in area and 4 feet in height.
                                         
                                        G. Are not located within any clear
                                        view area or placed where it creates a
                                        safety hazard.
                                         
                                        H. Signs placed on private property are
                                        permitted only with the permission of
                                        the property owner.
Religious symbols                       Any religious symbol attached to a
                                        place of religious worship.
                                        1 nameplate sign showing the name of
                                        the occupant of a dwelling, the address
Residential nameplates, home occupation of the dwelling or the name and nature
signs, street address or combination    of the home occupation conducted within
                                        the dwelling. The sign shall not exceed
                                        2 square feet in area.
                                        Restaurant menu boxes of up to 10
                                        square feet for displaying menus. A
                                        freestanding or wall sign permit
Restaurant menu boxes                   approval shall be obtained for
                                        restaurant menu boxes larger than 10
                                        square feet, and including in the total
                                        the number of allowed freestanding or
                                        wall signs.
                                        Decorations or displays, when such are
                                        clearly incidental to, and are
                                        customarily or commonly associated
Seasonal decorations                    with, any national, local or religious
                                        celebration; provided, that such
                                        decorations or displays are maintained
                                        in an attractive condition and do not
                                        constitute a fire hazard.
                                        Signs required or specifically
Signs authorized by law                 authorized for a public purpose by any
                                        law, statute or ordinance, including
                                        traffic control signals.
                                        Pieces of art, monuments, statuary,
                                        sculpture, water features, fountains
                                        and other similar features, not
Site and building features              containing any corporate advertising,
                                        logo, insignia or other symbol, and
                                        used to identify or distinguish a site
                                        or building.
                                        A sign used to identify a site
                                        development or subdivision that may
                                        include multiple lots and/or multiple
                                        buildings, and typically located at the
                                        entrance of such project, and provided
                                        such signs meet the following
                                        requirements:
                                         
                                        A. Not more than 1 sign for each
                                        entrance to the project, indicating
                                        only the name, symbol, logo or other
                                        graphic identification of the project.
                                         
                                        B. Such signs are stationary and
Site development and subdivision        unlighted.
identification signs                     
                                        C. Signs must be professionally
                                        prepared, neat in appearance and well
                                        maintained.
                                         
                                        D. Are removed when the project is
                                        completed or all lots or units are
                                        sold.
                                         
                                        E. Shall not exceed 32 feet in area and
                                        8 feet in height.
                                         
                                        F. Are not located within any clear
                                        view area or placed where it creates a
                                        safety hazard.
Street address numbers                  Street address numbers no higher than
                                        12 inches.
                                        Signs displayed on motor vehicles or
                                        trailers being operated in the normal
                                        course of business, such signs
Vehicle signs                           indicating the name of the owner or
                                        business if the primary purpose of such
                                        vehicles is not for the display of
                                        signs.
                                        Temporary or permanent signs erected by
Warning signs                           a government agency, utility company or
                                        construction company to warn of
                                        dangerous or hazardous conditions.
                                        A sign affixed or attached to a window
                                        and visible from outside the building.
                                        All window signs shall be no larger
                                        than the window with which the sign is
                                        associated. No window sign shall
Window signs                            project beyond the exterior surface of
                                        the window. All window sign lighting
                                        sources shall be fully shielded and no
                                        lighting source shall be exposed or
                                        visible from any road, street or
                                        adjacent property.
 
(Ord., 2-12-2015; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 8-21-4, 8-12-2021)
CHAPTER 4
OUTDOOR LIGHTING
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose
9-4-2: Definitions
9-4-3: Scope And Applicability
9-4-4: Application And Review Procedure
9-4-5: Full Cutoff Fixture Requirements
9-4-6: Conditions And Standards Generally
9-4-7: Specialized Outdoor Lighting
9-4-8: Hillsides, Ridgelines And Special Cases
9-4-9: Towers
9-4-10: Exemptions
9-4-11: Prohibited Lighting
9-4-12: Violations
9-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purposes of this chapter are to:
   A.   Encourage outdoor lighting practices that will minimize light
pollution, glare, light trespass and sky glow in order to preserve the natural
dark of the night sky and to prevent lighting nuisances on properties.
   B.   Promote energy conservation.
   C.   Maintain nighttime safety, utility and security.
   D.   Prevent unnecessary or inappropriate outdoor lighting.
   E.   Maintain the rural atmosphere and village character of the town. (Ord.,
3-10-2016)
9-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain words, phrases and terms used herein
shall have the meanings assigned to them by this section:
ACCENT OR ARCHITECTURAL LIGHTING: Lighting of building surfaces, landscape
features, statues and similar items for the purpose of decoration or
ornamentation; or lighting that does not contribute to the safety or security
of residents, guests, employees or customers on a property.
CORRELATED COLOR TEMPERATURE (CCT): A specification of the color appearance of
the light emitted by a lamp, relating its color to the color of light from a
reference source when heated to a particular temperature, measured in degrees
kelvin (K).
DIRECT ILLUMINATION: Illumination resulting from light emitted directly from a
lamp, luminary or reflector. This does not include light reflected from other
surfaces, such as the ground or building faces.
FLOODLIGHT: A fixture or lamp designed to "flood" an area with light. A
specific form of lamp or fixture designed to direct its output in a specific
direction. Such lamps are often designated by the manufacturer and are commonly
used in residential outdoor lighting.
FULL CUTOFF FIXTURE: An outdoor light fixture designed so that the installed
fixture emits no light above the horizontal plane. Full cutoff light fixtures
must be shielded in and of themselves. Surrounding structures, like canopies,
are not to be considered when determining if the fixture is full cutoff. Full
cutoff fixtures must be appropriately mounted so that the shielding prevents
light from escaping above the horizontal and all light is directed downward.
INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED: As it relates to signs, any sign which has a light
source entirely enclosed within the sign and not directly visible to the eye.
LIGHT POLLUTION: Any adverse effect of manmade light. Often used to denote "sky
glow" from cities or towns, but also includes glare, light trespass, visual
clutter and other adverse affects of lighting.
LIGHT SOURCE: The part of a lighting fixture that produces light, e.g., the
bulb.
LIGHT TRESPASS: Light falling where it is not wanted or needed. Spill light
falling over property lines that illuminates adjacent grounds or buildings in
an objectionable manner.
MANUFACTURER'S CATALOG CUTS: A publication or other printed material of a lamp
or lighting manufacturer offering visual and technical information about a
lighting fixture or lamp.
OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURE: An outdoor electrically powered illuminating lamp or
similar device used for lighting structures, parking lots, pathways, service
canopies, recreational areas, signs or other similar outdoor lighting uses.
RECREATIONAL LIGHTING: Lighting used to illuminate sports fields, ball courts,
playgrounds or similar outdoor recreational facilities.
SECURITY LIGHTS: Lighting designed to illuminate a property or grounds for the
purpose of visual security.
SPOTLIGHT: A fixture or lamp designed to light a small area very brightly. See
definition of Floodlight.
TOWER: Any monopole, antenna or the like that exceeds eighteen feet (18') in
height.
UNSHIELDED FIXTURE: A fixture that allows light to be emitted above the
horizontal either directly from the lamp or indirectly from the fixture or
reflector. Any fixture not full cutoff. (Ord., 3-10-2016; amd. 2016 Code)
9-4-3: SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Compliance: All exterior outdoor lighting installed after the effective
date hereof in all zones in the town shall conform to the requirements
established by this chapter. This chapter does not apply to indoor lighting.
However, light trespass from interior lighting that negatively impacts adjacent
properties is also prohibited.
   B.   Nonconforming Uses: All existing outdoor lighting that does not meet
the requirements of this chapter and is not exempted by this chapter shall be
considered a nonconforming use. The town will encourage property owners to
voluntarily bring nonconforming exterior lighting into compliance with this
chapter. Where appropriate, the town may also provide assistance and expertise
to homeowners in bringing their exterior lighting fixtures into compliance with
this chapter.
   C.   Modifications; Compliance Through Building Permit Process: The town may
require exterior lighting fixtures to be brought into compliance, through the
building permit process, if substantial modifications are made to the exterior
of the building or if the footprint of the structure is enlarged.
   D.   Change Of Ownership: Properties that change ownership, whether
residential or commercial, must bring exterior lighting into compliance with
this chapter.
   E.   Conflicts: Should this chapter be found to be in conflict with other
ordinances of the town, the more restrictive shall apply. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
9-4-4: APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURE:
   A.   Lighting Plans Required: All sign permit applications, building permit
applications and design development review applications shall include a
lighting plan that shows evidence that the proposed lighting fixtures and light
sources will comply with this chapter and shall include the following:
      1.   Plans or drawings indicating the proposed location of lighting
fixtures, height of lighting fixtures on the premises, and type of illumination
devices, lamps, supports, shielding and reflectors used and installation and
electrical details.
      2.   Illustrations, such as contained in a manufacturer's catalog cuts,
of all proposed lighting fixtures. For commercial uses, photometric diagrams of
proposed lighting fixtures are also required. In the event photometric diagrams
are not available, the applicant must provide sufficient information regarding
the light fixture, bulb wattage and shielding mechanisms for the planning
commission to be able to determine compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
      3.   A table showing the total amount of proposed exterior lights, by
fixture type, wattage, lumens and lamp type.
   B.   Approval Procedure:
      1.   The lighting plan for all new development shall be submitted for
approval concurrent with the associated application process. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
      2.   A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until such time as
the property is subject to a postinstallation nighttime inspection by the
building inspector. (Ord., 3-10-2016; amd. 2016 Code)
9-4-5: FULL CUTOFF FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required: Unless specifically exempted by this chapter, all outdoor
lighting shall use full cutoff fixtures that are designed and constructed so
that no light is emitted from the top or sides of the fixture. Lighting must be
placed at a location, angle or height to prevent direct illumination outside
the property boundaries where the light fixtures are located.
   B.   Characteristics: In order to qualify as a "full cutoff" fixture, a
light fixture must have the top and sides made of completely opaque material
such that light only escapes through the bottom of the fixture. Fixtures with
translucent or transparent sides, or sides with perforations or slits, do not
qualify as full cutoff. Any glass or diffuser on the bottom of the fixture must
be flush with the fixture (no drop lenses). Merely placing a light fixture
under an eave, canopy, patio cover or other similar cover does not qualify as
full cutoff. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
   C.   Restrictions On Total Amount Of Unshielded Lighting: Outdoor lighting
that is not subject to the shielding requirement in subsection 9-4-6C of this
chapter shall not exceed five thousand (5000) lumens per net acre for
commercial properties, and one thousand (1000) lumens per net acre for
residential properties. (2016 Code)
   D.   Exemptions To Full Cutoff Fixture Requirements:
      1.   Fixtures having a total light output less than one thousand (1000)
lumens (approximately equal to a 60 watt incandescent bulb or a 15 watt compact
fluorescent) are exempted from the full cutoff requirement provided:
         a.   The fixture has a top that is completely opaque such that no
light is directed upward.
         b.   The fixture has sides that completely cover the light source and
are made of opaque or semiopaque material. Fixtures with opaque sides may have
incidental decorative perforations that emit small amounts of light. Semiopaque
material, such as dark tinted glass or translucent plastic, may be used if the
light source is not discernable behind the material. Completely transparent
materials, such as clear glass, are not allowed.
         c.   The light source (light bulb or filament) must not be visible
from any point outside the property on which the fixture is located.
      2.   Spotlights controlled by motion sensors having a light output less
than one thousand (1000) lumens per lamp (allowing a maximum of a 60 watt
incandescent or a 15 watt compact fluorescent bulb) are exempt from the full
cutoff requirement, provided:
         a.   The fixture is a spotlight or other type of directed light that
shall be directed at a forty five degree (45°) angle or less, where the zero
angle is pointing straight down.
         b.   The fixture must not be placed in such a manner that results in
illumination being directed outside the property boundaries where the light
fixtures are located.
         c.   The fixture must be hooded or shielded to the extent necessary to
prevent glare on adjacent properties or roadways.
      3.   Pathway lights less than eighteen inches (18") in height are
exempted from the full cutoff fixture requirement, if the total light output
from each pathway light is less than three hundred (300) lumens and the lights
have opaque caps that direct light downward.
      4.   Architectural lights, water feature illumination and sign
illumination are all exempted from the full cutoff fixture requirement,
provided such illumination meets all other applicable standards of this
chapter. (Ord., 3-10-2016; amd. 2016 Code)
9-4-6: CONDITIONS AND STANDARDS GENERALLY:
   A.   Minimum Necessary: Outdoor lighting should be the minimum necessary to
provide for safety and functionality. The lowest wattage light source necessary
for a lighting application should be used. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
   B.   Maximum Color Temperature Of All Lighting Fixtures: The correlated
color temperature of any outdoor lighting fixture shall not exceed three
thousand degrees kelvin (3000°K).
   C.   Maximum Lighting Allowed: The total amount of outdoor lighting, whether
shielded or unshielded, shall not exceed twenty five thousand (25 000) lumens
per net acre for commercial properties and five thousand (5000) lumens per acre
for residential properties. (2016 Code)
   D.   Allowable Applications: Outdoor lighting shall only be allowed in the
following applications:
      1.   To illuminate the entrances to buildings (including garage
entrances).
      2.   To illuminate pathways and walkways.
      3.   To illuminate parking areas and parking area access lanes.
      4.   To illuminate outdoor gathering areas, such as patios, pool and hot
tub areas, outdoor dining areas and recreation areas.
      5.   For security purposes, provided all the following conditions are
met:
         a.   The lighting is activated by motion sensors and shuts off fifteen
(15) minutes after each disturbance or when the activity involved is completed.
         b.   The lighting is placed and directed such that no direct
illumination falls outside the property boundaries where the security lighting
is placed.
      6.   To illuminate signage.
      7.   For architectural lighting, provided all of the following conditions
are met:
         a.   The property where the architectural lighting is placed is on a
property designated as commercial by the town.
         b.   The architectural lighting is compatible with the purposes of
this chapter as determined by the planning commission.
         c.   All architectural lighting is mounted on and directed onto the
front of a commercial building facing the street.
         d.   The architectural lighting is sufficiently shielded such that the
light source is not visible beyond the property boundaries.
         e.   The architectural lighting is directed such that all light falls
on the front of the building, and not on the adjacent ground or into the night
sky.
         f.   The architectural lighting uses low wattage light sources.
         g.   The architectural lighting is not used to illuminate landscape,
statues or other similar features.
      8.   To illuminate outdoor water features, provided all of the following
conditions are met:
         a.   The lighting is angled below the horizontal plane.
         b.   The lighting is placed underneath or behind the water such that
the water diffuses the light from all points where the light is visible.
         c.   Each light source has a total light output of one thousand (1000)
lumens or less and the total lighting is not greater than necessary to achieve
the desired artistic effect.
   E.   Light Curfews:
      1.   Commercial establishments shall turn off all outdoor lighting,
except that listed below, by one hour after closing. (For the purposes of this
section, motels and hotels are considered open around the clock when they are
open for the season.)
         a.   Lighting to illuminate the entrance to the commercial
establishment.
         b.   Parking lot and pathway lighting required for the safety of
guests.
      2.   Recreational lighting (residential and commercial) shall be turned
off by ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., except to conclude a community approved
sporting event that is underway. (Ord., 3-10-2016; amd. 2016 Code)
9-4-7: SPECIALIZED OUTDOOR LIGHTING:
   A.   Gas Station Canopies: Gas station canopies may be illuminated, provided
all light fixtures are mounted on the undersurface of the canopy, all light
fixtures are full cutoff and diffusers are not visible from locations off the
property. Except for directed beam lighting, merely placing the fixtures on the
underside of the canopy does not qualify as fully shielding the light fixture.
Directed beam lighting mounted under the canopy is allowed, provided the light
source cannot be seen from outside the property boundaries.
   B.   Roadway/Streetlights: Streetlights are allowable as recommended by the
town engineer or town council. All streetlights shall utilize lamp types that
are energy efficient and minimize sky glow and other negative impacts of
artificial lighting.
   C.   Parking Lots:
      1.   Spot or flood lighting of parking lots from a building or other
structure is prohibited.
      2.   The overall height of any light post used to illuminate parking lots
in commercial zones shall not exceed fourteen feet (14'). All post mounted
parking lot lights shall be set back from property lines a distance that is
determined appropriate by the planning commission.
      3.   The overall height of any light post used to illuminate parking lots
in residential zones shall not exceed six feet (6').
      4.   All parking lot lighting shall use full cutoff fixtures.
   D.   Recreational Lighting:
      1.   The planning commission shall review all requests for new
recreational lighting fixtures for fields or courts. The planning commission
shall approve such requests only after finding:
         a.   The recreational lighting has provisions for minimizing glare,
spill light and uplight by the use of louvers, hoods or shielding.
         b.   The recreational lighting does not exceed illumination levels for
class IV sports lighting set by the Illuminating Engineering Society Of North
America.
         c.   The recreational lighting will only illuminate the field or court
area and shall be shielded to prevent illumination falling outside of those
areas.
         d.   The light source for the recreational light will not be visible
from adjacent properties.
      2.   Pole mounted recreational lighting shall be limited to eighteen feet
(18') in height. Pole mounted recreational lighting must be set back an
appropriate distance from neighboring properties as determined in consultation
with the planning commission.
      3.   The lighting for nonfield and noncourt areas shall conform to all
provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Amphitheater Lighting: Outdoor amphitheaters may use illumination to
light the performance area of the amphitheater and for the safety of the
public. The following standards apply to all amphitheater lighting:
      1.   Lighting used to illuminate the performance area must be either
directed spotlighting or full cutoff lighting. If directed spotlighting, the
light source must be located and designed such that it is not visible beyond
the property boundaries.
      2.   Lighting used to illuminate the performance area may only be turned
on during performances or rehearsals.
      3.   Lighting used to illuminate the seating areas, pathways and other
areas of the amphitheater must meet all standards of this chapter.
   F.   Signs: Signs may be unlighted, lighted externally, lighted internally
or backlit. All sign lighting must be designed, directed and shielded in such a
manner that the light source is not visible beyond the property boundaries
where the sign is located. Lighting for signs must be directed such that only
the sign face is illuminated. All lighted signs must have stationary and
constant lighting. (Note: For additional information on sign lighting
standards, please refer to the town sign ordinance, chapter 3 of this title.)
      1.   Standards For Externally Illuminated Signs:
         a.   Lighting for externally illuminated signs must be aimed and
shielded so that light is directed only onto the sign face and does not
trespass onto adjacent streets, roads or properties or into the night sky.
         b.   Lighting for externally illuminated signs must be mounted at the
top of the sign (or within 2 feet of the top of a building mounted sign),
except for freestanding monument style signs which may be illuminated by ground
mounted lighting.
      2.   Standards For Internally Illuminated Signs - Lighting Is Visible On
Both Sides Of Sign:
         a.   Only sign copy areas and logos may be illuminated on an
internally illuminated sign.
         b.   Internally illuminated signs shall use semiopaque materials for
sign copy such that the light emanating from the sign is diffused. Transparent
or clear materials are not allowed for sign copy. Noncopy portions of the sign
(e.g., background and graphics) shall be made of completely opaque material.
      3.   Standards For Backlit Signs - Only One Side Of Sign Is Lit:
         a.   Backlit signs shall be designed such that the light source is not
visible.
         b.   Backlit signs shall be designed such that harsh, direct
illumination does not emanate out of the sign. Rather, the backlighting shall
only allow indirect illumination to emanate from the sign. For example, signs
that create a "halo" effect around sign copy are allowed.
         c.   Backlit signs shall use low wattage light sources.
      4.   Illuminated Window Signage: Illuminated window signs positioned to
be primarily visible outside the business structure are allowed only if there
are no more than two (2) signs per business space and each sign measures less
than three and one-half (31/2) square feet in area. Such signs must not be
illuminated when the business is closed. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
9-4-8: HILLSIDES, RIDGELINES AND SPECIAL CASES:
In certain cases (such as, but not limited to, properties on or near ridgelines
or hillsides), additional shielding may be required to mitigate glare or light
trespass. The need for additional shielding will be considered as part of the
review process performed by the planning commission prior to approval of any
business or residence. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
9-4-9: TOWERS:
   A.   All monopole, antenna, tower or support facility lighting not required
by the federal aviation administration (FAA) or the federal communications
commission (FCC) is prohibited.
   B.   When lighting is required by the FAA or the FCC, such lighting shall
not exceed the minimum requirements of those agencies. Collision markers should
have a dual mode for day and night to minimize impact to the night sky and
migrating birds.
   C.   All other lighting used on the property not regulated by the FAA or FCC
shall conform to this chapter. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
9-4-10: EXEMPTIONS:
The following shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter:
   A.   Holiday lighting from November 15 to January 15 as long as it does not
create a hazard or nuisance to surrounding businesses or residences.
   B.   Traffic control signals and devices.
   C.   Temporary emergency lighting in use by law enforcement or government
agencies, or at their direction.
   D.   The lighting of federal or state flags; provided, that the light is a
narrow beam aimed and shielded to illuminate only the flag. Flag lighting
should use appropriate illumination levels to light the flag, while at the same
time fulfilling the purposes of this chapter.
   E.   Low voltage LED lights and solar lights used to illuminate pathways in
residential areas, provided the lights are installed no more than eighteen
inches (18") above the adjacent ground level and have caps that direct the
light downward.
   F.   The planning commission, as part of its review as outlined in this
chapter, may approve lighting that does not conform to these standards if need
is established. An applicant requesting such lighting is required to provide
proof of requirements of property insurance or findings of competent research
demonstrating the need for the requested lighting. The planning commission may
attach other conditions to the approval of such lighting that will make the
lighting comply with the spirit of this chapter. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
9-4-11: PROHIBITED LIGHTING:
The following are prohibited:
   A.   Uplighting to illuminate buildings and other structures, or vegetation,
except as allowed by other provisions in this chapter.
   B.   Flashing, blinking, intermittent or other lights that move or give the
impression of movement, not including holiday lighting between November 15 and
January 15.
   C.   Floodlights or spotlights affixed to buildings for the purpose of
lighting parking lots or sales display lot areas.
   D.   Searchlights, laser source lights or any similar high intensity light.
   E.   Except when used in window signage pursuant to subsection 9-4-7F4 of
this chapter, neon or luminous tube lighting, either when outdoor mounted or
indoor mounted if visible beyond the property boundaries. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
9-4-12: VIOLATIONS:
The following constitute violations of this chapter:
   A.   The installation, maintenance or operation of any lighting fixture not
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter if such fixture is installed
subsequent to the date when this chapter is formally adopted.
   B.   The alteration of outdoor lighting fixtures after a certificate of
occupancy has been issued without the review and approval of the planning
commission when such alteration does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter.
   C.   Failure to shield, correct or remove lighting that is installed,
operated, maintained or altered in violation of this chapter. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Authority And Applicability
10-1-3: Declaration
10-1-4: Purposes
10-1-5: Effective Date
10-1-6: Severability
10-1-7: Omissions
10-1-8: Amendments
10-1-9: Fees
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the TORREY ZONING ORDINANCE (that hereinafter may
be referred to as "this Ordinance," "this Title," or "Land Use Ordinance").
(Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Adoption: The Torrey Town Council adopts this title, including the map
and appendices, as attached hereto, pursuant to the Municipal Land Use,
Development and Management Act as amended (Utah Code Annotated sections 10-9a,
et seq., hereinafter "the Act") and all other authorities and provisions of
State and Federal laws and case law, as applicable. This title is adopted as a
land use ordinance, as authorized and defined by the Act.
   B.   Applicability: This title shall apply to all property located within
the boundaries of Torrey, Utah (that may be hereinafter referred to as "Torrey"
or "the Town").
   C.   Construction: As provided by the Act, the Town may exercise all powers
granted by the Act, except in cases clearly contrary to the intent of the law.
   D.   Consistency: The provisions and standards of this title are found to be
consistent with the Torrey General Plan, as adopted.
   E.   These regulations qualify or supplement, as the case may be, the zone
regulations appearing elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-1-3: DECLARATION:
This title provides for the establishment of zones and overlays with associated
use requirements and standards, for the guidance, management, and regulation of
all uses, buildings and structures, and other activities occurring within the
Town. This title is found to be consistent with and to meet all requirements of
the Act. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-1-4: PURPOSES:
The purposes of this title are:
   A.   To implement the General Plan;
   B.   Provide for the health, safety, and well-being of all town residents;
   C.   Preserve the small, quiet, rural, quality of life in Torrey;
   D.   Guide and direct orderly growth and development, consistent with the
General Plan, including its land use policies;
   E.   Provide for fairness and consistency in land use policy and all related
decision-making;
   F.   Protect farming and ranching as a lifestyle choice for residents;
   G.   Preserve the Town's natural beauty and resources, including, but not
limited to, open spaces, clean air and water, and night skies;
   H.   Provide for the establishment of appropriately compatible commercial
activities that meet the needs of Town residents and visitors;
   I.   Protect landowners from adverse impacts and nuisance from adjoining
uses;
   J.   Protect property values and the Town's tax base; and
   K.   Encourage pride in the appearance and quality of the Town. (Ord. 4-21-
001, 4-8-2021)
10-1-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This title is effective on April 8, 2021, following its adoption by the Town
Council, and the Town Council's receipt of a Planning Commission
recommendation. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-1-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any chapter, part, section, paragraph or subsection of this title, or the
application thereof is held to be invalid, the remainder of this title shall
not be affected thereby. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-1-7:OMISSIONS:
An omission to specify or enumerate in this title those provisions of general
law applicable to all Utah municipalities shall not be construed to be a waiver
of any such laws. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-1-8: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   This title may be amended by the Torrey Town Council from time to time,
but any proposed amendment must first be submitted to the Planning Commission
for review, a public hearing, and a recommendation with comments to the Town
Council. Requests to amend this title may come from the Town Council, the
Mayor, the Planning Commission, Torrey Town property owners, or Torrey Town
residents.
   B.   No proposed amendment shall be adopted unless the proposed amendment
complies with the following criteria:
      1.   The proposed amendment will place property similarly situated into
the same zoning classification or in complementary classifications;
      2.   All uses permitted under the proposed amendment are in the general
public interest and not merely in the interest of an individual or small group;
      3.   All uses permitted under the proposed amendment will be appropriate
in the area to be included in the proposed amendment;
      4.   The character of the neighborhood will not be adversely affected by
any use permitted in the proposed amendment; and
      5.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the town General Plan.
   C.   Before adopting any amendment to this title, the Town shall comply with
the notice and hearing requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-205.
(Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-1-9: FEES:
The Town Council may establish, by resolution, an administrative fee for the
processing and review of applications for development approval, appeals and
variances designed to recover an amount not to exceed the actual or anticipated
costs of review. Service providers may adopt their own review fees. All review
fees shall be paid prior to the approval of the development permit. (Ord. 4-21-
001, 4-8-2021)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
10-2-1: Established
10-2-2: Commission Members Considered Volunteers
10-2-3: Organization
10-2-4: Powers And Duties
10-2-1: ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Membership: The Planning Commission of the Town will be composed of
five (5) to seven (7) members of the Town community, appointed by the Town
Council. Members of the Planning Commission shall serve without compensation,
except for reasonable expenses incurred while performing their duties as
members of the commission. One member of the Town Council shall be appointed to
the Planning Commission and serve as the liaison between the Council and the
commission. The term of the Town Council member shall run with the Council
member's term of office. This means there will be a total of six (6) to eight
(8) Planning Commissioners. (Ord. P&Z3, 12-8-2015; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Term In Office: All members of the commission shall serve a term of
three (3) years. Terms shall begin on February 1 of each year. No member shall
serve more than two (2) consecutive terms, unless a vacancy cannot be filled.
After being off the Planning Commission for one year, a member may be
reappointed.
   C.   Removal: The Town Council may remove any member of the commission for a
violation of this chapter or any policies or procedures adopted by the
commission following receipt of a written complaint filed against the member.
If requested, the Council shall provide the member with a hearing.
   D.   Vacancies: Vacancies shall be promptly filled for the remainder of the
unexpired term. An unexpired term shall not be counted toward the maximum
number of terms. (Ord. P&Z3, 12-8-2015)
10-2-2: COMMISSION MEMBERS CONSIDERED VOLUNTEERS:
Members of the Planning Commission shall be deemed volunteers for the purposes
of Town ordinances, rules, regulations and policies concerning personnel.
However, commission members shall be included in the definition of "employee"
for the purposes of the Utah Governmental Immunity Act. (Ord. P&Z3, 12-8-2015)
10-2-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers: In March, the members of the Planning Commission shall
annually review and select, from their own members, a Chairperson and such
other officers as deemed necessary and shall adopt rules and regulations for
their organization and for the transaction of business and the conduct of their
proceedings.
   B.   Recordkeeping: Reports of official acts and recommendations of the
Planning Commission shall be public and made by the Chairperson in writing to
the Town Council and shall indicate how each member of the commission voted
with respect to such act or recommendation. Any member of the commission may
also make a concurring or dissenting report or recommendation to the Town
Council.
   C.   Minutes: For Town records, approved minutes from the previous month's
planning and zoning meeting will be submitted to the Town Council during their
regular monthly meeting. (Ord. P&Z3, 12-8-2015)
   D.   Meetings: The Planning Commission shall meet at a regular time and day
as determined by the members of the commission. They shall meet before the
Thursday the Town Council is to meet and at such other times as the Planning
Commission may determine. Subcommittee meetings will be held as needed. All
planning meetings will be open to the public. Meeting announcements will be
published as required by Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-205(2). (Ord. 2017-
9-14-3, 9-14-2017)
   E.   Quorum: A simple majority of Planning Commissioners shall constitute a
quorum for general meetings. Two (2) Planning Commissioners shall constitute a
quorum for all subcommittee meetings. A majority of voting members present at a
meeting for which a quorum is present shall be required for any actions. No
less than a simple majority of yes votes is required for passage of any action.
All members of the commission, except the council liaison, are voting members.
The town council liaison will vote to break a tie.
   F.   Minimum Attendance: Planning commission members must attend a minimum
of seven (7) meetings during a calendar year. (Ord. P&Z3, 12-8-2015)
10-2-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission shall have all the powers and duties established for
Utah planning commissions as outlined in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-301
et seq. (Ord. P&Z3, 12-8-2015; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
REGULATORY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Enforcement
10-3-2: Application And Review
10-3-3: Planning Commission Approval
10-3-4: Nuisance And Abatement
10-3-5: Licensing
10-3-6: Fees
10-3-7: Effect On Previous Ordinances And Maps
10-3-8: Minimum Requirements
10-3-9: Conflict
10-3-10: Penalty
10-3-1: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The building inspector is the officer charged with the enforcement of
this title, but from time to time, by resolution or ordinance, the town council
may delegate the enforcement, in whole or in part, to any other employee of the
town without amendment to this title. The building inspector may not waive any
provisions of this title. The building inspector shall not issue any permit
unless the plans of the proposed erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration and use fully conform to all land use development regulations then
in effect.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the building inspector to inspect or cause to
be inspected all buildings and improvements in the course of construction or
repair.
   C.   No construction, alteration, repair or removal of any building or
structure, or any part thereof, or the change of use of any land or building as
provided or as regulated in this title is allowed, without the appropriate
written permit issued by the building inspector. (Ord., 9-12-1996; amd. 2016
Code)
10-3-2: APPLICATION AND REVIEW:
   A.   Requirements: All applications for permits shall be made to the
building inspector. All applications for permits, including for single-family
dwellings and their accessory buildings, shall be submitted also to the
planning commission for design review to assure conformity with the intent of
the general plan and compliance with all applicable ordinances and regulations.
The design submissions shall include architectural and site development plans
to scale, which shall show building locations, landscaping, prominent existing
trees, ground cover treatment, fences, off street parking and circulation,
location and size of the adjacent streets, north arrow and property lines,
existing grades and proposed new grades, point of water and sewer connections,
percolation results, curb cuts, and locations of all freestanding signs. (Ord.,
9-12-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Conditional Use Permits: Design review for buildings and uses covered
by conditional use permits shall be incorporated within such conditional use
permit and need not be a separate application, provided the requirements of
this title are met. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-3-3: PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL:
The planning commission, or the building inspector when authorized by the
planning commission, shall determine whether proposed architectural and site
development plans submitted are consistent with the general objectives of this
title, and shall give or withhold approval accordingly. Denial of approval by
the building inspector may be appealed to the planning commission, and denial
by the planning commission may be appealed to the town council, as provided for
in this title. (Ord., 9-12-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
10-3-4: NUISANCE AND ABATEMENT:
Any building or structure erected, constructed, altered, enlarged, converted,
moved or maintained contrary to the provisions of town ordinances, and any use
of land, building or premises established, conducted or maintained contrary to
provisions of any town ordinance shall be, and the same hereby is, declared to
be unlawful and a public nuisance. The town attorney shall, upon request of the
town council, commence action for abatement thereof in a manner provided by
law, and restrain or enjoin any person, firm or corporation from erecting,
building, maintaining or using the building or structure or property contrary
to the provisions of town ordinances. The remedies provided for herein shall be
cumulative and not exclusive. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-3-5: LICENSING:
All departments, officials and public employees of the town which are vested
with the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the
provisions of this title and shall issue no permit or license for uses,
buildings or purposes where the same would be in conflict with the provisions
of this title, and any such permit or license, if issued in conflict with the
provisions of this title, shall be null and void. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-3-6: FEES:
Fees may be charged applicants for building, occupancy and conditional use
permits, design review and planned unit development approval, planning
commission and board of adjustment hearings, and such other services as are
required by this title to be performed by public officers or agencies. Such
fees shall be established by the governing body and be amounts reasonably
needed to defray cost to the public. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-3-7: EFFECT ON PREVIOUS ORDINANCES AND MAPS:
The existing ordinances covering land use and development regulations, in their
entirety, and including the maps and standard drawings heretofore adopted and
made a part of said ordinances are hereby superseded and amended to read as set
forth herein; provided, however, that this title, including its accompanying
maps and standard drawings, shall be deemed a continuation of previous
ordinances and not a new enactment, insofar as the substance of revisions of
previous ordinances are included in this title, whether in the same or in
different language; and this title shall be so interpreted upon all questions
of construction relating to tenure of officers and boards established by
previous ordinances and to questions of conforming or nonconforming dates upon
which such uses, buildings or structures became conforming or nonconforming.
(Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-3-8: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the requirements
contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for the purpose
set forth. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-3-9: CONFLICT:
   A.   This title shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of
covenants, agreements, other ordinances or laws, but shall prevail
notwithstanding such provisions which are less restrictive.
   B.   If any provision of this title or its application to any persons or
circumstance is, for any reason, held invalid, the remaining portion and/or
portions of this title or the application of the provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-3-10: PENALTY:
Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this title shall be guilty of a
class C misdemeanor for each and every day such violation shall occur or
continue and, upon conviction of any such violation, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 9-12-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ZONES ESTABLISHED AND RELATED REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Zones Established - Purposes And Location
10-4-2: Official Zone Map Adopted; Amendments
10-4-3: Rules For Locating Zone Boundaries
10-4-4: Applications
10-4-5: State And Federal Property
10-4-6: Property Owned By Other Governmental Units
10-4-7: Building Permit(s) Required
10-4-8: Vesting Of Rights
10-4-9: Rules For Parcel Or Lot Use
10-4-1: ZONES ESTABLISHED - PURPOSES AND LOCATION:
For the purposes of this chapter, the Town establishes the following zones:
   A.   1.   Residential/Agricultural Zone (RA): The Residential/Agriculture
Zone is provided to promote and preserve conditions favorable to rural life and
the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. Additionally, it promotes
the agricultural heritage of Torrey while preserving and promoting areas and
conditions favorable to agriculture, preserving lands for natural drainage
areas and agricultural uses, protecting views, preserving natural settings, and
adding to the character and aesthetic qualities of the Town. The Residential/
Agricultural Zone is characterized by a variety of parcel and lot sizes, which
maintain open space. The Residential/Agricultural Zone is primarily residential
in character, protected from the encroachment by nonresidential uses. It
recognizes the heritage of the Town, seeks to protect those legacies for future
generations, and ensures new development is compatible and found to be
consistent with the Zone's purposes.
      2.   Residential/Agricultural Zone (RA) Location: This Zone includes all
parcels and lots, except those not located in another zone, and as shown on the
Torrey Zoning Map, located in appendix G.
   B.   1.   Mixed-Use Zone (MU): The purposes of the Mixed-Use Zone are to
preserve the Town's existing small-town, rural character and to provide
opportunities for the establishment of compatible commercial and residential
activities. This Zone allows for a compatible and complementary mix of
residential and nonresidential uses, and open spaces. The Mixed-Use Zone allows
nonresidential uses, fosters integration and compatibility of uses, and
encourages a walkable and safe pedestrian and biking environment. Overall
purposes are to maintain open space, continue residential uses, promote
economic development opportunities, and provide buffers and compatibilities
between residential and nonresidential uses. The use of any parcel or lot in
the Mixed-Use Zone remains permitted as it is at the time this title is
adopted.
      2.   Mixed-Use Zone (MU) Location: The Mixed-Use Zone includes all
parcels and lots with a common property boundary to the Main Street right-of-
way and extending from the eastern Town boundary to the western Town boundary,
and all parcels and lots with a common property boundary to the Center Street,
extending from the centerline of 100 South Street to the centerline of 200
North Street, as shown on the Torrey Zoning Map, located in appendix G. (Ord.
4-21-001, 4-8-2021; amd. Ord., 2-23-2022)
10-4-2: OFFICIAL ZONE MAP ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
The Torrey Zoning Map (appendix G) is hereby adopted by this reference and is
made part of this title. The Torrey Zoning Map and the Town's zones may be
amended from time to time as determined necessary by the Town Council,
following the receipt of a Planning Commission recommendation. Further, other
zones may be provided as determined necessary by the Town Council, following
the receipt of a Planning Commission recommendation. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-4-3: RULES FOR LOCATING ZONE BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone, the following rules
shall apply:
   A.   Where a zone boundary is indicated as being the centerline of a road,
street, alley, or following a property line, then unless otherwise definitely
indicated by the Torrey Zoning Map (appendix G), the centerline of such road,
street, alley or property line, shall be construed as the boundary of the zone.
   B.   Whenever a zone boundary is indicated as being the centerline of any
river, irrigation canal, or other waterway, the boundary line of such public
land or such section line shall be deemed to be the boundary of such zone.
   C.   When a zone boundary cannot be determined by the application of the
above rules, the location may be determined by the use of the scale appearing
on the Torrey Zoning Map (appendix G).
   D.   Where the application of the above rules does not clarify a zone
boundary, the Town Council shall interpret the map following a recommendation
by the Planning Commission. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-4-4: APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Applications accepted as complete for any approval, license, or permit
required by this title shall be processed, reviewed, and approved or denied,
subject to the provisions of this title and other ordinances and resolutions of
the Town, as applicable, in effect at the time the application is determined
"complete."
   B.   No building or structure shall be erected, and no existing building or
structure shall be moved, altered or enlarged, nor shall any land, building or
premises be used, designed or intended to be used for any use, activity,
purpose other than as allowed by this title. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-4-5: STATE AND FEDERAL PROPERTY:
Unless provided by law nothing in this title shall be construed as having any
authority over properties owned by the State of Utah or the United States.
(Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-4-6: PROPERTY OWNED BY OTHER GOVERNMENTAL UNITS:
Each county, municipality, school district, charter school, special district,
and political subdivision of Utah shall comply with the provisions of this
title unless law specifically provides otherwise. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-4-7: BUILDING PERMIT(S) REQUIRED:
   A.   Construction, alteration, repair, or removal of any building,
structure, or part thereof as provided or as restricted in this title shall not
be commenced or continued except after the issuance of a valid building permit,
as required by the building inspector.
   B.   All applications for building permits, including accessory buildings,
shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for land use review to assure
conformity with the General Plan and compliance with this title. The
applications shall include architectural and site development plans to scale,
which shall show building locations, landscaping, prominent existing trees,
ground cover treatment, fences, off street parking and circulation, location
and size of the adjacent streets, north arrow, property lines, existing grades,
proposed new grades, point of water and sewer connections, percolation results,
curb cuts, and locations of all freestanding signs. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-4-8: VESTING OF RIGHTS:
   A.   On the date of a determination of a complete application, any land use
application shall vest to the terms of this title and the Act in effect on that
date, unless such vesting is affected by a pending amendment to this title, or
a temporary zoning regulation.
   B.   It is the intent of this title that no vested right shall be conferred
pursuant to an application for development approval except for the following:
      1.   An application for building permit as provided by applicable law.
      2.   An application for final site plan or final subdivision plat as
provided by applicable law.
      3.   A building permit shall be considered void after one hundred eighty
(180) days if construction has not commenced.
      4.   All other development permits shall be considered void after one
year unless substantial construction or development has taken place or has
continued in good faith without interruption. One six (6) month extension of a
development permit may be granted by the Town Council upon a finding that
special circumstances exist which warrant such an extension, including, but not
limited to, a delay caused by a government review agency or a natural disaster.
(Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-4-9: RULES FOR PARCEL OR LOT USE:
   A.   The requirements of this title pertaining to minimum lot area or width
shall not prevent the use for a single-family dwelling on any parcel or lot of
land in the event that the parcel or lot was held in separate ownership at the
time such parcel or lot became nonconforming as to area or width.
   B.   Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a parcel or lot, as
defined herein.
   C.   No space needed to meet the requirements of this title for minimum lot
size may be sold or leased away from such lot.
   D.   No parcel of land which has less than the minimum area requirement may
be separated from a larger parcel of land for any purpose. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-
2021)
CHAPTER 5
PERMITTED USES, MINIMUM DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, OFF-STREET PARKING, AND
COMPATIBILITY, BUFFERING, AND ADJACENCY STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Permitted And Prohibited Uses
10-5-2: Minimum Development Standards
10-5-3: Off-Street Parking Standards
10-5-4: Compatibility, Buffering, And Adjacency Standards
10-5-5: Signage And Outdoor Lighting Standards
10-5-6: Hazardous Materials And Processes
10-5-7: Standards For Conditional Use Decisions
10-5-1: PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED USES:
   A.   All uses permitted by this title, either as a permitted use or
conditional use, by zone or overlay designation, and as defined, are identified
in Appendix A - Table of Uses. Uses listed in the Table of Uses are defined in
Appendix C - Definitions, which should be used in conjunction with Appendix A -
Table of Uses.
   B.   Any use not specifically permitted for in Appendix A - Table of Uses is
hereby declared a prohibited use within Torrey Town. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-5-2: MINIMUM DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   The minimum development standards, applicable to each zone and overlay
are provided by Appendix B - Tables of Minimum Development Standards.
   B.   No development shall be approved by the Town unless there are available
and adequate public facilities and services consistent with the Town's adopted
level of service standards, except as otherwise permitted in this title. Prior
to the issuance of any development permit, the applicant shall demonstrate that
all necessary public facilities and services are or will be available and
adequate. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-5-3: OFF-STREET PARKING STANDARDS:
The minimum off-street parking and loading standards, applicable to each use
are provided by Appendix D - Table of Off-Street Parking and Loading Standards.
(Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-5-4: COMPATIBILITY, BUFFERING, AND ADJACENCY STANDARDS:
The standards for use compatibility and buffering, as applicable, are provided
by Appendix E - Adjacency, Compatibility, and Buffering Standards. (Ord. 4-21-
001, 4-8-2021)
10-5-5: SIGNAGE AND OUTDOOR LIGHTING STANDARDS:
The standards applicable to all allowed signs and outdoor lighting equipment
are provided in the Sign Ordinance and Lighting Ordinance contained in title 9,
Building Regulations. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
10-5-6: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND PROCESSES:
Uses that routinely use hazardous materials or routinely use processes that
generate dust, smoke, noxious odors, or noise must comply with all applicable
Utah State Codes regarding the use of hazardous materials or processes. If the
hazardous materials or processes cause a nuisance for nearby properties, the
Planning Commission may require an abatement plan to be submitted by the
business for review and approval by the Commission if approved abatement plan
is not followed by the business, the Town Council may suspend the business's
license until the business comes into compliance with the abatement plan. In
the event Torrey Town undertakes clean up or abatement of the effects of
hazardous materials, the business license holder will reimburse all costs to
Torrey Town and/or other entities involved in the mitigation. (Ord. 4-21-001,
4-8-2021)
10-5-7: STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USE DECISIONS:
Conditional uses are those uses which are generally compatible with the
permitted uses in a zoning district, but which, because of their size, scale,
intensity of use, traffic generation, or other characteristics, require
individual review of their location, design and configuration and the
imposition of conditions in order to ensure the appropriateness of the use at a
particular location within a given zoning district. When making decisions on
conditional use permit applications submitted to it, the Planning Commission
may consider all reasonable standards applicable to the building, structure, or
use, which mitigate the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use,
building, or structure. These conditions may include, but are not limited to,
the following:
   A.   The size, configuration, and location of the site, and proposed site
plan layout;
   B.   The proposed site ingress and egress to existing and proposed roads and
streets;
   C.   The provision of public facilities and amenities, including, but not
limited to, roads and streets, water, sewer, storm drainage, public safety,
fire protection, and other utilities;
   D.   The location and amount of off-street parking and loading areas;
   E.   The site's circulation pattern for vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
   F.   The building's size, location, design;
   G.   The design of all site features, including proposed signage, lighting
(with recommendations from the International Dark Sky Association), and refuse
collection;
   H.   The provision of usable open space, public features, and amenities;
   I.   The provision of public access;
   J.   The measures directed at minimizing or eliminating possible nuisance
and safety factors, including, but not limited to, noise, vibrations, smoke,
dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic
disturbances, and radiation;
   K.   The measures designed to protect the natural features of the site,
drainage ways, protection of views, grade changes, iconic structures or
vegetation, and other natural site features;
   L.   The regulation of operating hours for all possible activities;
   M.   The identification of a period for regular review and monitoring to
ensure the use continues to operate in compliance with all conditions, and
requirements of its approval; and
   N.   Such other conditions deemed reasonable by the Planning Commission to
allow the operation of the use in compliance with the requirements of this land
ordinance and consistency with the General Plan. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
CHAPTER 6
SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Applicability
10-6-2: Lots And Yards
10-6-1: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations qualify or supplement, as the case may be, the zone
regulations appearing elsewhere in this title. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-6-2: LOTS AND YARDS:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area in acres required for any building shall
be one-half (1/2) acre or twenty one thousand seven hundred eighty (21,780)
square feet.
   B.   Lots In Separate Ownership; Reduced Yards: The requirements of this
title as to minimum lot area or lot width shall not prevent the use for a
single-family dwelling on any lot or parcel of land in the event that the lot
or parcel of land was held in separate ownership at the time such parcel became
nonconforming as to area or width.
   C.   Every Dwelling To Be On A Lot: Every dwelling shall be located and
maintained on a lot, as defined herein.
   D.   Sale Or Lease Of Required Space: No space needed to meet the area or
other requirements of this title for minimum lot or building requirements may
be sold or leased away from such lot or building.
   E.   Creation Of Lots Below Minimum Space Requirements: No parcel of land
which has less than the minimum area requirement for the zone in which it is
located may be separated from a larger parcel of land for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of building or development as a lot. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
CHAPTER 7
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
SECTION:
10-7-1: Maintenance Permitted
10-7-2: Repairs And Alterations
10-7-3: Additions, Enlargements And Moving
10-7-4: Restoration Of Damaged Buildings
10-7-5: One Year Vacancy
10-7-6: Continuation Of Use
10-7-7: Occupation Within One Year
10-7-8: Change Of Use
10-7-9: Expansion Of Use Permitted
10-7-10: Nonconforming Use Of Land
10-7-1: MAINTENANCE PERMITTED:
A nonconforming building or structure may be maintained. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-7-2: REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS:
Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a nonconforming building or
to a building housing a nonconforming use with a valid building permit. (Ord.,
9-12-1996)
10-7-3: ADDITIONS, ENLARGEMENTS AND MOVING:
   A.   A building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use and a building
or structure nonconforming as to height, area or yard regulations shall not be
added to or enlarged in any manner or moved to another location on the lot
except as provided herein. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
   B.   A building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use or a building
or a structure nonconforming as to height, area or yard regulations may be
added to or enlarged or moved to a new location on the lot upon variance
authorized by the board of adjustment, which may issue; provided, that the
board of adjustment after hearing, shall find: (Ord., 9-12-1996; amd. 2016
Code)
      1.   The addition to, enlargement of, or moving of the building will be
in harmony with the purposes of and shall be in keeping with the intent of this
title.
      2.   The proposed change does not impose any unreasonable burden upon the
lands located in the vicinity of the nonconforming use or structure. (Ord., 9-
12-1996)
10-7-4: RESTORATION OF DAMAGED BUILDINGS:
A nonconforming building or structure or a building or structure occupied by a
nonconforming use which is damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, wind,
earthquake or other calamity or act of God, or the public enemy, may be
restored and the occupancy or use of such building or structure, or part
thereof, which existed at the time of such damage or destruction may be
continued or resumed; provided, that such restoration is started within a
period of one year and is diligently pursued to completion. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-7-5: ONE YEAR VACANCY:
A building or structure, or portion thereof, occupied by a nonconforming use,
which is, or hereafter becomes, vacant and remains unoccupied by a
nonconforming use for a continuous period of one year, shall not thereafter be
occupied except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the zone in
which it is located. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-7-6: CONTINUATION OF USE:
The occupancy of a building or structure by a nonconforming use, existing at
the time the ordinance codified herein becomes effective, may be continued.
(Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-7-7: OCCUPATION WITHIN ONE YEAR:
A vacant building or structure may be occupied by a use for which the building
or structure was designed or intended if so occupied within a period of one
year after the use became a nonconforming use. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-7-8: CHANGE OF USE:
The nonconforming use of a building or structure may not be changed except to a
conforming use; but where such change is made, the use shall not thereafter be
changed back to a nonconforming use. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-7-9: EXPANSION OF USE PERMITTED:
A nonconforming use may be extended to include the entire floor area of the
existing building in which it is conducted at the time the use became
nonconforming. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-7-10: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
   A.   The nonconforming use of land may be added to, enlarged or moved to a
new location on the lot upon which the use is established; provided, that the
town council, after notification of all property owners within one thousand
feet (1,000') of the boundary of the lot where the use is established, find
that such change shall be in harmony and keeping with the purpose of this
title, that it does not impose undue or unreasonable burden on adjoining land
or use, and that the use is compatible with the general environment of the
neighborhood. Application for change of a nonconforming use shall be made
directly to the town council, however, such application may be referred to the
planning commission for a recommendation from that body if so directed by the
town council. All costs for notification of adjoining property owners, public
hearing and administrative functions shall be borne by the applicant.
   B.   A nonconforming use of land, or any portion thereof, which is abandoned
or changed for a period of one year or more, shall cease to have continuing
status and any future use of such land as was occupied by a nonconforming use
shall be consistent with the provisions of this title. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
CHAPTER 8
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Permit Required
10-8-3: Application For Permit
10-8-4: Public Hearing
10-8-5: Determination
10-8-6: Building Permit
10-8-7: Time Limit
10-8-8: Revocation Of Permit
10-8-9: Appeal
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
Certain uses which may be harmonious under special conditions and in specific
locations within a district, but may be improper under general conditions and
in other locations are classed as conditional uses within the various districts
and require conditional use permits. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-8-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as conditional
uses in the district regulations or elsewhere in this title. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-8-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
A conditional use permit application shall be made to the planning commission
as provided in this title. Applications for a conditional use permit shall be
accompanied by maps, drawings, statements or other documents as required by the
planning commission. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-8-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
A conditional use permit may be approved by the planning commission without a
public hearing, except mandated as indicated by section
10-4-4, "Use Regulations", of this title. However, the planning commission may
require a public hearing where any conditional use is judged to be of a
controversial nature or where the best interests of the neighborhood or
community are served by broader public exposure to the proposed use. (Ord., 9-
12-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
10-8-5: DETERMINATION:
The planning commission may permit a conditional use to be located within any
district in which the particular conditional use is permitted by the use
regulations of this title. In authorizing any conditional use, the planning
commission shall impose such requirements and conditions as are necessary for
the protection of adjacent properties and the public welfare. The planning
commission shall not authorize a conditional use permit unless evidence
presented is such to establish:
   A.   Such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of persons residing or
working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the
vicinity, and that the proposed use of the particular location is necessary or
desirable and that provides a service or facility which will contribute to the
general well being of the neighborhood and the town.
   B.   The proposed use will comply with regulations and conditions specified
in this title for such use.
   C.   The planning commission shall itemize, describe or justify, then have
recorded and filed in writing, the conditions imposed on the use. (Ord., 9-12-
1996)
10-8-6: BUILDING PERMIT:
Following the issuance of a conditional use permit, the building inspector may
approve an application for a building permit, provided the development is
undertaken and completed in compliance with said conditional use and building
regulation. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-8-7: TIME LIMIT:
   A.   A conditional use permit for temporary uses may be issued for a maximum
period of six (6) months, with renewals at the discretion of the planning
commission for not more than three (3) successive periods thereafter.
   B.   Unless there is substantial action under a conditional use permit
within a maximum period of one year of its issuance, the permit shall expire.
The planning commission may grant a maximum extension for six (6) months.
(Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-8-8: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The planning commission shall revoke a conditional use permit if there is a
substantial violation of the conditions placed on the permit. The commission
shall give notice to the permit holder prior to revocation and the right to a
hearing before the planning commission. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
10-8-9: APPEAL:
Any person shall have the right to appeal the decision of the planning
commission to the town council. (Ord., 9-12-1996)
CHAPTER 9
VARIANCES
SECTION:
10-9-1: General Provisions
10-9-2: Standards
10-9-3: Unreasonable Hardship
10-9-4: Self-Imposed Hardship Or Economic Hardship
10-9-5: Special Circumstances
10-9-6: Burden Of Proof
10-9-7: Conditions Running With Land
10-9-8: Use Variances Prohibited
10-9-9: Additional Requirements
10-9-10: Notice To Council
10-9-11: Appeals
10-9-12: Lapse And Renewal Of Variance
10-9-13: Revocation
10-9-14: One Year Bar On Refiling
10-9-15: Variance Related To Plans Submitted
10-9-16: Request For Reconsideration
10-9-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the
requirements of Torrey Town land use ordinances as applied to a parcel of
property that such person owns, leases or in which such person holds some other
beneficial interest, may apply to the Torrey Town's designated appeal authority
for a variance from the terms of such ordinances. An application for variance
shall be filed with the town clerk. The variance application shall contain the
following information:
      1.   A description of the requested variance, together with a designation
of the ordinance provision from which relief is being requested;
      2.   The manner in which the variance will be applied and its effect upon
adjacent properties;
      3.   A site plan and all other plans necessary to show the manner in
which the requested variance will be applied, drawn to scale; and
      4.   The appropriate filing fee as established by resolution of the town
council.
   B.   No application for a variance from this title may be set for public
hearing unless the town staff has reviewed the application and determined the
application to be appropriate and complete. If the town staff determines that
the application complies with the provisions of this section, said application
shall be forwarded to the appeal authority. If the town staff determines that
an application does not comply with the provisions of this section, the town
staff shall return the incomplete application to the applicant and provide a
written explanation for the rejection.
   C.   Upon receipt of an application for variance by the appeal authority,
the appeal authority shall schedule a public hearing, which shall be noticed in
accordance with Utah state code. At the public hearing, the appeal authority
may grant, grant with conditions, deny said variance, or continue consideration
at a later date. If consideration of the variance is adjourned within thirty
five (35) days following the closing of the public hearing on an application
for variance, the appeal authority shall act on the application at a public
meeting held in conformance with Utah Code Annotated title 52, chapter 4, open
and public meetings act. (2016 Code)
10-9-2: STANDARDS:
The appeal authority may grant a variance only if:
   A.   Literal enforcement of the provisions of this title would cause an
unreasonable hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the
general purpose of Torrey Town's general plan or land use ordinances;
   B.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do not
generally apply to other properties in the same district;
   C.   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial
property right possessed by other properties in the same district;
   D.   The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and will
not be contrary to the public interest; and
   E.   The spirit of the land use ordinance is observed and substantial
justice is done. (2016 Code)
10-9-3: UNREASONABLE HARDSHIP:
In determining whether or not enforcement of this title would cause
unreasonable hardship under subsection 10-9-2A of this chapter, the appeal
authority may not find an unreasonable hardship unless the alleged hardship:
   A.   Is located on or associated with the property for which the variance is
sought; and
   B.   Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from conditions
that are general to the neighborhood. (2016 Code)
10-9-4: SELF-IMPOSED HARDSHIP OR ECONOMIC HARDSHIP:
In determining whether or not enforcement of this title would cause
unreasonable hardship under subsection
10-9-2A of this chapter, the appeal authority may not find an unreasonable
hardship if the hardship is self-imposed or economic. (2016 Code)
10-9-5: SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES:
In determining whether or not there are special circumstances attached to the
property under subsection
10-9-2B of this chapter, the appeal authority may find that special
circumstances exist only if the special circumstances:
   A.   Relate to the hardship complained of; and
   B.   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in the
same district. (2016 Code)
10-9-6: BURDEN OF PROOF:
The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the conditions
justifying a variance have been met. (2016 Code)
10-9-7: CONDITIONS RUNNING WITH LAND:
Variances are conditions that run with the land. (2016 Code)
10-9-8: USE VARIANCES PROHIBITED:
The appeal authority may not grant use variances which allow a use in a zoning
district which is not a permitted use for that district. (2016 Code)
10-9-9: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
In granting a variance, the appeal authority may impose additional requirements
on the applicant that will:
   A.   Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; or
   B.   Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or
modified. (2016 Code)
10-9-10: NOTICE TO COUNCIL:
When the appeal authority has made its determination on the appeal, a report of
acceptance or denial shall be sent to town council. (2016 Code)
10-9-11: APPEALS:
Any person adversely affected by a final decision of the appeal authority on an
application for variance may file a petition for review of the decision with
the district court within thirty (30) days of the appeal authority's final
decision. The right to file a petition for review is lost if the petition is
not filed within thirty (30) days of the appeal authority's final decision.
(2016 Code)
10-9-12: LAPSE AND RENEWAL OF VARIANCE:
   A.   A variance shall lapse and shall become void one year following the
date on which the variance became effective unless prior to the expiration of
the one year period:
      1.   A building permit is issued and construction is commenced and
diligently pursued toward completion on the site which was the subject of the
variance application; or
      2.   A permit is issued authorizing the subject of the variance
application; or
      3.   The site is occupied if no building permit or certificate of
occupancy is required; or
      4.   The variance is renewed as provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.   A variance may be renewed for one additional period of no more than one
year in length; provided, that at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration
of one year from the date when the variance became effective, an application
for renewal of the variance is filed with the town clerk. The applicant shall
clearly demonstrate that:
      1.   In spite of the good faith efforts of the applicant, circumstances
beyond the applicant's control have prevented the timely pursuit of the project
and completion of the necessary requirements within the original time frame; or
      2.   The applicant has completed substantial property improvements;
incurred substantial nonrecoverable monetary expenditures or commitments; or
has completed supporting project related improvements or retained the services
for preparation of supporting data in reliance upon the approval of the
request.
   C.   In either instance, the applicant is, in good faith, continuing to
diligently pursue implementation of the proposal to the degree authorized by
the town. (2016 Code)
10-9-13: REVOCATION:
A variance granted by the appeal authority and subject to conditions may be
modified or revoked, after notice and hearing, if the appeal authority finds
one or more of the following:
   A.   That the variance was obtained by misrepresentation or fraud; or
   B.   That the conditions imposed upon said variance have not been complied
with. (2016 Code)
10-9-14: ONE YEAR BAR ON REFILING:
Following the denial or revocation of a variance application, no application
for the same or essentially the same variance on the same lot, parcel or site
shall be filed within one year of the date of denial or revocation of the
variance. (2016 Code)
10-9-15: VARIANCE RELATED TO PLANS SUBMITTED:
Unless otherwise specified at the time a variance is granted, it shall apply
only to the plans and drawings, or any insubstantial modifications thereto,
submitted as part of the application. (2016 Code)
10-9-16: REQUEST FOR RECONSIDERATION:
The appeal authority may reconsider a decision on a variance upon request by an
aggrieved party. Requests for reconsideration are not subject to the one year
ban on refiling in section
10-9-14 of this chapter. Any reconsideration of a variance decision will be
heard and reviewed through the same process as the original variance
application. The appeal authority is not obligated to reverse or change a
decision based on reconsideration. The request for reconsideration will be
evaluated according to the standards in section
10-9-2 of this chapter. The person making the request for reconsideration must
pay a variance application fee when the reconsideration hearing is scheduled.
Requests to reconsider a variance decision may only be granted when all of the
following criteria have been met:
   A.   New, supplemental, additional or clarified information or evidence is
available that was not presented at the variance hearing and such information
or evidence will significantly impact a finding of fact the appeal authority
relied upon when making the decision.
   B.   The request for reconsideration is made within thirty (30) days from
the date the appeal authority issues a written decision. (2016 Code)
APPENDIX A
TABLE OF USES
Table of Uses RA MU
Table of Uses                            RA MU
Agricultural And Animal-Related
Accessory use/building                   P  P
Agriculture use/building                 P  P
Raising and housing of livestock         P  P
Veterinary clinic                        D  C
Food & Beverage Services
Accessory use/building                   P  P
Bar                                      D  C
Cafe/coffee shop/small food service      D  P
Drive-through food and beverage          D  C
Food truck                               D  P
Liquor store                             D  C
Restaurant                               D  C
Distillery/cidery/brewery/winery         D  C
Transient Lodging
Accessory use/building                   P  P
Bed and breakfast                        D  P
Hotel                                    D  C
Motel                                    D  C
Rental cabins/campground                 D  C
RV park                                  D  C
Short term rentals (see title 3, chapter
4)
Residential Dwellings
Dwelling, accessory unit                 P  P
Dwelling, single-family                  P  P
Dwelling, duplex                         P  P
Dwelling, triplex                        C  C
Dwelling, fourplex                       C  C
Dwelling, manufactured                   P  P
Retail Sales
Accessory use/building                   P  P
Grocery store                            D  C
Mini-mart/convenience store              D  C
Retail store/shop                        D  P
Seasonal sales                           D  P
Selling of gasoline and/or diesel        D  C
Schools And Child Care
Accessory use/building                   P  P
School (public and private)              C  C
Pre-school/day care center               C  C
Government, Utilities And Public Uses
Accessory use/building                   P  P
Government facility                      C  C
Public use                               C  C
Religious building                       C  C
Other Business Uses
Accessory use/building                   P  P
Professional office/services             D  P
Home occupation                          P  P
Financial institution                    D  C
Recreational/entertainment facility      D  C
Light manufacturing                      D  P
Residential facility for the disabled    P  P
Residential facility for the elderly     P  P
Notes:
1.   The Table of Uses below must be used in conjunction with Appendix C -
Definitions.
2.   All uses included in this Tables of Uses shall meet all applicable
requirements of the International Building Code, the Land Use Ordinance,
Business Licensing, Building Codes, Health Codes, as well as all other
applicable Local, State, and Federal rules and requirements.
3.   Uses identified as a P Use (Permitted) shall comply with the
application, review, and approval procedures and standards provided by titles
9 and 10.
4.   Uses identified as a C Use (Conditional) shall comply with the
application, review, and approval procedures and standards provided by titles
9 and 10.
5.   Uses identified with a D (Disallowed) are prohibited uses in the zones
or overlays.
6.   Uses identified as a T Use (Temporary Use) shall comply with the
application, review, and approval procedures and standards provided by titles
9 and 10.
7.   Uses identified as a S Use (Seasonal Use) shall comply with the
application, review, and approval procedures and standards provided by titles
9 and 10.
8.   A use not listed in this Table of Uses is a prohibited use in Torrey.
9.   A use, legally existing before effective date of this title, but now not
allowed in one or more zones or overlays, may continue as a nonconforming use
as described in chapter 10-7 of this title.
10.   A use included and defined in the Table of Uses shall not be
interpreted to be included in the definition of another use.
11.   The terrain and slope of the property must be suitable for livestock,
including provisions to manage waste removal, odors, drainage, runoff,
bedding materials, flies, and feed/hay, such that customary animal activities
do not create nuisances for adjacent properties. If animals within the Town
limits create a nuisance, and complaints are brought before the Town Council,
the Council may require the owner to submit and adhere to a management plan.
12.   The raising and housing of livestock must comply with all applicable
Utah State Codes for such activity.
13.   The raising and housing of livestock is limited to two livestock
animals per ½ acre.
 
(Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
 
APPENDIX B
TABLE OF MINIMUM DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 
Minimum Development
Standards for Primary     RA                         MU
Buildings, Structures,
and Uses
Minimum parcel or lot     One-half (1/2) acre        One-half (1/2) acre
size:
Front                     24 feet from property line 24 feet from property line
Side and rear             12 feet                    12 feet
Maximum Building Height:
Height measured from the  28 feet                    28 feet
natural grade to the
highest point of the roof
Minimum Building Height:
Measured from the natural One story                  One story
grade
 
 
Minimum Development
Standards for Accessory   RA                         MU
Buildings, Structures,
and Uses
Minimum parcel or lot     One-half (1/2) acre        One-half (1/2) acre
size
Front                     24 feet from property line 24 feet from property line
Side and rear             12 feet                    12 feet
Maximum Building Height:
Height measured from the  26 feet                    26 feet
natural grade to the
highest point of the roof
Minimum Building Height:
Measured from the natural One story                  One story
grade
 
(Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
APPENDIX C
DEFINITIONS
                         A subordinate building detached from, but located on
                         the same lot as, the principal use, and which is
                         incidental to and accessory to the principal use. An
ACCESSORY BUILDING:      accessory building shall be no larger than two
                         thousand (2,000) square feet and no taller than twenty
                         six feet (26'). It shall contain no living or cooking
                         facilities and shall not be used as a dwelling unit.
ACCESSORY USE:           A use clearly subordinate to and customarily
                         incidental to the principal use of a property.
                         A main building or accessory building used solely in
AGRICULTURE BUILDING:    conjunction with an agriculture use. An agriculture
                         building shall not be used as a dwelling unit.
                         The production, keeping, or maintenance for sale of
                         plants and animals useful to man, including but not
                         limited to: vegetables, fruit, trees, hay, sod,
                         grains, nuts, honey, milk, cheese, and any other
                         agricultural or horticultural products and their
AGRICULTURE USE:         storage; the raising of farm poultry and farm
                         livestock, including cattle, sheep, goats, cows,
                         bulls, bison, horses, mules, donkeys, pigs, swine,
                         fur-bearing animals, bees, llamas; alpacas; trees and
                         forest products; nursery, floral, ornamental, and
                         greenhouse products; or lands devoted to a soil
                         conservation or forestry management program.
                         A retail establishment whose principal use is serving
                         alcoholic beverages to customers. A bar may also
                         include snacks or food for sale if secondary to the
BAR:                     primary use. Properties serving full meals which may
                         include alcohol are considered restaurants. Issues of
                         noise and hours of operation will be considered during
                         the permitting process.
                         A facility offering transient lodging where breakfast
                         or other meals are included in the lodging charge. A
                         bed and breakfast may be within a house or in a stand-
BED AND BREAKFAST:       alone structure. These facilities shall have no more
                         than five (5) guest rooms in the RA Zones, and no more
                         than ten (10) guest rooms in the MU Zone. A bed and
                         breakfast may be, but is not required to be, owner
                         occupied.
                         Any structure having a roof supported by columns or
BUILDING:                walls for the housing, accommodation, or enclosure of
                         persons, businesses, animals, or possessions.
                         The International Building Code and International
                         Residential Code, as adopted by the State of Utah and
                         published by the International Code Council (ICC), and
BUILDING CODE:           title 9 - Building Regulations of this code,
                         establishing rules and regulations for the design,
                         construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy,
                         location, and maintenance of buildings and structures.
                         A retail establishment where prepared food and
                         beverages are offered for sale. They may provide
CAFE/COFFEE SHOP/SMALL   seating inside or outside the building as well as
FOOD SERVICE:            take-out services, and may engage in retail sales that
                         are secondary to the principal food service. Typically
                         food is ordered at a counter and alcohol is not
                         served.
                         The connections and mutual respect occurring between
COMMUNITY:               residents for the benefit of the Town, and the
                         achievement of shared goals, norms, and values, as
                         provided in the Torrey Town General Plan.
                         The ability to allow two (2) or more adjoining uses,
                         buildings, or structures to exist without creating
COMPATIBILITY/           negative impacts or conflicts. Considerations may
COMPATIBLE:              include, but are not limited to size, intensity,
                         operational standards, site plan configuration,
                         buffering, etc.
                         Certain uses which may be harmonious under special
                         conditions and in specific locations within a zone,
CONDITIONAL USE:         but maybe inappropriate or improper under general
                         conditions and in other locations, are classified as
                         conditional uses within the various zones and require
                         conditional use permits.
                         A facility for the production and sale of packaged
DISTILLERY/CIDERY/       alcoholic beverages made from fruits or grains. Such
BREWERY/WINERY:          facilities may include a tasting room as well as the
                         secondary sale of food in the tasting room.
                         A retail facility of no more than five hundred (500)
DRIVE-THROUGH FOOD AND   square feet that allows customers to purchase products
BEVERAGE:                without leaving their vehicles. Orders are generally
                         placed using a microphone and picked up at a window.
                         No indoor dining or seating are available.
                         A habitable building or portion thereof used as the
                         living place for a family as defined herein. Dwelling
                         units must include a minimum of a kitchen, a bathroom,
                         and areas for living and sleeping, as well as
                         permanent foundation, plumbing, sewer, heating, and
                         electrical systems. They may be owner-occupied, or
                         rented for periods of thirty (30) days or more.
                         Dwellings do not include transient lodging facilities
                         such as motels, hotels, bed and breakfasts, short term
                         rentals, tents, or tepees, nor travel trailers, RVs,
                         or other temporary or mobile facilities. However,
                         living in a travel trailer or RV is permitted during
                         the construction of a permanent dwelling for a period
                         no more than one year from the date of issuance of a
DWELLING:                building permit, though six (6) month extensions may
                         be granted by the Town Council. The dwelling must be
                         taxed as real property. If the dwelling is a
                         manufactured home, an affidavit must be filed with the
                         state tax commission pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
                         section 59-2-1501 et seq. Manufactured homes will be
                         permitted as long as axles, tongues, running gear and
                         wheels are removed and they are sitting on a permanent
                         foundation on-a on at least one-half (.5) acre parcel
                         both single and double wide, or in a designated or
                         approved trailer park. Any manufactured home shall
                         comply with and conform to all other zoning laws,
                         rules, regulations and building, plumbing, electrical,
                         fire prevention and all other codes and requirements
                         applicable to a structure or building erected with the
                         town.
                         A secondary, habitable living unit containing a
                         minimum of a kitchen, a bathroom, and living and
                         sleeping areas located within, added onto, or detached
                         from the primary single-family dwelling and contained
                         on the same lot. Such units include but are not
                         limited to mother-in-law apartments and guest houses.
                         Accessory dwellings must have a separate entrance from
                         the single-family dwelling. They may be no larger than
DWELLING - ACCESSORY:    fifty percent (50%) of the interior square footage of
                         the main dwelling, excluding the garage, or eight
                         hundred (800) square feet, whichever is greater. The
                         highest point of the roofline of a detached accessory
                         dwelling shall be no higher than the roofline of the
                         primary dwelling. An accessory dwelling may be
                         occupied by the property owner who then rents out the
                         primary structure. If the accessory dwelling is a
                         stand-alone building it may not be used as a short-
                         term rental unit.
                         A single building with two (2) dwelling units located
DWELLING - DUPLEX:       on one lot and designed or arranged to be occupied by
                         two (2) families living independently.
                         A single building with four (4) dwelling units located
DWELLING - FOURPLEX:     on one lot and designed or arranged to be occupied by
                         four (4) families living independently.
DWELLING - SINGLE        A single building, located on one lot containing one
FAMILY:                  dwelling unit to be occupied by one family. They may
                         also include one accessory dwelling unit.
                         A single building with three (3) dwelling units
DWELLING - TRIPLEX:      located on one lot and designed or arranged to be
                         occupied by three (3) families living independently.
                         A person working for another person or a business for
                         pay. For the purposes of Appendix D - Off-street
                         Parking Standards, "Employee" means an on duty
EMPLOYEE:                employee and the business owner. For the purposes of
                         home occupation, as described in this section,
                         "Employee" does not include "Family" as described in
                         this section.
                         A person living alone, or any of the following groups
                         living together as a single dwelling unit: any number
FAMILY:                  of people living together who are related by blood,
                         marriage, adoption, or guardianship; or four (4)
                         unrelated people; or two (2) unrelated people and any
                         children related to either of them.
                         An institution, such as a bank, insurance company, or
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION:   fund, that provides financial services for its clients
                         or members.
                         A truck or similar mobile facility temporarily used
                         for the preparation and sale of food and beverages to
FOOD TRUCK:              go. Food trucks shall be located on commercial
                         property and may not be parked on the street. Nearby
                         seating may be provided.
FRONTAGE:                The boundary of a property that faces a public street,
                         private road or parking area.
GOVERNMENT FACILITY:     Any building or property owned or used by a municipal,
                         county, state, or federal branch of government.
                         A retail facility larger than one thousand five
                         hundred (1,500) square feet selling meat, produce,
                         dairy, and baked goods, along with canned and packaged
GROCERY STORE:           foods and ingredients to the public. They may also
                         sell a range of non-food items such as kitchenware,
                         household cleaners, pharmacy products pet supplies,
                         and the like.
                         Objects and qualities (such as historic buildings,
HERITAGE:                customs and traditions) from the past, which are
                         valued enough today to save for future generations.
                         An activity or service carried out by a resident and
                         conducted entirely within the resident's home and/or
                         accessory building of no more than eight hundred (800)
                         square feet, and which is clearly incidental and
                         accessory to the residential use of the dwelling or
                         property. The home occupation shall not change the
HOME OCCUPATION:         residential character of the residence, nor result in
                         noise, vibration, light, odor, dust, smoke, or other
                         nuisances at or beyond the property line, nor have any
                         visible outside storage of goods, materials, or
                         equipment. Home occupations may include one employee.
                         Uses involving access by pedestrian or vehicles shall
                         only be conducted between the hours of eight o'clock
                         (8:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
                         A building offering transient lodging accommodations
                         to the public and which may provide additional
                         services, such as restaurants, meeting rooms,
HOTEL:                   entertainment, and recreational facilities. A hotel
                         usually has a main lobby and internal corridors
                         leading to individual rooms. A hotel shall have no
                         more than thirty (30) guest rooms.
                         The assembly, fabrication or processing of goods and
                         materials using processes that do not create noise,
                         smoke, fumes, odors, glare, or health or safety
                         hazards outside of the building or lot, where such
                         processes are housed entirely within a building, and
                         where the area occupied by outdoor storage of goods
                         and materials used in such processes does not exceed
LIGHT MANUFACTURING:     twenty-five percent (25%) of the floor area of all
                         buildings on the property. Light manufacturing
                         generally includes processing and fabrication of
                         finished products, predominantly from previously
                         prepared materials, and includes processes that do not
                         require extensive floor or land areas. Light
                         manufacturing does not include the manufacture of
                         products that exports Torrey Town water (e.g., ice or
                         bottled water).
                         A state-regulated retail shop that predominantly sells
LIQUOR STORE:            pre-packaged alcoholic beverages intended to be
                         consumed off the store's premises.
                         Farm animals including cattle, sheep, pigs, goats,
                         horses, donkeys, mules, buffalo, oxen, llamas, and
LIVESTOCK:               alpacas kept for pleasure, use, or profit, excluding
                         poultry. The raising and housing of livestock is
                         limited to two (2) livestock animals per one half (½)
                         acre.
                         A tract of land, regardless of any label, that is
LOT:                     created by and shown on a subdivision plat that has
                         been recorded in the office of the county recorder.
                         A transportable, factory-built housing unit
                         constructed on or after June 15, 1976 according to HUD
                         Code, in one or more sections, that is built on a
                         permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
MANUFACTURED HOME:       dwelling unit. It must sit on a permanent foundation
                         and be connected to all required utilities including
                         plumbing, heating, electricity, and sanitary sewer
                         system. This definition includes mobile homes as
                         defined in Utah Code, but does not does not include
                         modular house components.
                         A retail business of less than one thousand five
MINI-MART/               hundred (1,500) square feet, selling general consumer
CONVENIENCE STORE:       products such as prepackaged foods, beverages, and
                         snacks, as well as non-food and household items.
                         A building or group of buildings offering transient
                         lodging accommodations to the public. Some or all
                         lodging units have a separate entrance leading
                         directly from the outside of the building, with
MOTEL:                   parking spaces located on the lot and designed for the
                         automobiles of transients. Motels may provide
                         additional services, such as restaurants, meeting
                         rooms, entertainment, and recreational facilities. A
                         motel shall have no more than thirty (30) guest rooms.
                         A structure or use that legally existed before the
                         current Land Use Ordinance was adopted or amended, and
NONCONFORMING:           which now does not conform to the regulations
                         governing the use of land. See chapter 10-7 for
                         further information.
                         All real property that is not a lot created by and
PARCEL:                  shown on a subdivision plat recorded in the office of
                         the county recorder.
                         Any facility operated by an individual or corporation
PRESCHOOL/DAY CARE       qualified by the State of Utah to provide young
CENTER:                  children with daycare and/or preschool instruction as
                         a commercial business. This definition does not
                         include residential, noncommercial baby-sitting.
                         A building for the professions including but not
                         limited to physicians, dentists, lawyers, realtors,
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE/     architects, engineers, artists, musicians, designers,
SERVICES:                teachers, accountants, hair stylists, barbers, and
                         massage therapists who, through training, are
                         qualified to perform services of a professional or
                         personal nature.
                         A hearing at which members of the public are provided
PUBLIC HEARING:          a reasonable opportunity to comment on the subject of
                         the hearing.
                         A meeting that is required to be open to the public
PUBLIC MEETING:          under title 52, chapter 4, the Utah Open and Public
                         Meetings Act.
                         A use operated exclusively by a public body or quasi-
                         public body for the purpose of serving the public
                         health, safety, or general welfare, and including
PUBLIC USE:              parks, recreational facilities, service facilities,
                         and related administrative spaces. Public uses do not
                         include public/private utilities nor airports or
                         prisons.
                         A place, either indoor or outdoor, designed and
                         equipped for the conduct of commercial sports and
RECREATION/              leisure-time activities. These include spas, saunas,
ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY:  steam baths, swimming pools, gyms, exercise areas,
                         movie and drama theaters, outdoor stage or
                         amphitheater, athletic fields, and playgrounds, but do
                         not include zip lines.
                         A facility principally used for people to gather for
RELIGIOUS BUILDING:      public worship, religious training, or other religious
                         activities.
                         A facility offering transient accommodation in tents,
                         rustic cabins, and other small shelters for recreation
                         or vacation purposes. Accessory uses may include an
                         office, a retail store, showers, and other uses
                         commonly associated with such facilities. Each unit
RENTAL CABINS/           must be wide enough to accommodate a customer's
CAMPGROUND:              vehicle, and outdoor cooking and eating, as well as
                         landscaping or similar buffering between units.
                         Restrooms must be provided, sufficient for all campers
                         and for any cabins where bathrooms are not included
                         within the cabin. Open areas should be provided for
                         group gatherings.
                         A residential facility in which more than one person
                         with a disability resides and which is licensed or
                         certified by the Department of Human Services under
                         title 62A, chapter 2, Licensure of Programs and
                         Facilities, or which is licensed or certified by the
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR Department of Health under title 26, chapter 21,
THE DISABLED:            Health Care Facility Licensing and Inspection Act. A
                         disability means a physical or mental impairment that
                         substantially limits one or more of a person's major
                         life activities, including a person having a record of
                         such an impairment or being regarded as having such an
                         impairment.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR A residential facility in which more than one person
THE ELDERLY:             who is past middle age resides, and which is licensed
                         or certified by the Utah Department of Human Services.
                         An establishment where food and beverages are prepared
                         and served. A restaurant customarily provides table
RESTAURANT:              service where food is ordered and consumed on site.
                         Seating may be both inside and outside, and alcohol is
                         often served.
                         A retail facility involving the sale of goods and
RETAIL STORE/SHOP:       services to the public including but not limited to
                         household goods, clothing, gifts, art, crafts,
                         personal services, and similar sales.
                         A parcel of land devoted to transient lodging for
                         persons in recreation vehicles or travel trailers.
                         Accessory uses may include an office, a retail store,
                         showers, and other uses commonly associated with such
                         facilities. Each RV or trailer space must be wide
RV PARK:                 enough to accommodate a customer's car, and outdoor
                         eating and cooking areas, and must include landscaping
                         or similar buffering between units. Restrooms must be
                         provided, sufficient to accommodate customers whose
                         trailers do not include such facilities. Open areas
                         should be provided for group gatherings.
                         The concept that two (2) or more adjacent uses,
                         buildings, or structures should exist without creating
SCALE:                   negative impacts or conflicts. Considerations may
                         include, but are not limited to size, intensity,
                         operational standards, site plan configuration,
                         buffering, etc.
                         Any building or part thereof that is designed,
                         constructed, and used for training, education, or
                         instruction by a public entity or a private
SCHOOL:                  organization in any branch of knowledge and to any age
                         student, but excluding a preschool center. As
                         conditional uses, issues of noise, traffic, parking,
                         and other potential nuisances may be considered.
                         A business established on a temporary basis that takes
                         advantage of fleeting or seasonal opportunities to be
                         conducted for no more than fourteen (14) days. This
SEASONAL SALES:          may include stand-alone booths or the temporary use of
                         an existing structure. Seasonal opportunities may
                         include, but are not limited to short-term stores for
                         a holiday or holiday season, or other uses for the
                         sale of temporary seasonal items.
                         Retail business establishment that includes the
SELLING OF GASOLINE AND  selling of gasoline or diesel. The storage and
DIESEL:                  delivery system must comply with Appendix F, lighting
                         ordinance, and building and safety codes.
SHORT TERM RENTAL UNIT:  See title 3, chapter 4 of this code.
                         A facility for the diagnosis, treatment, and
                         hospitalization of animals, which may include
VETERINARY CLINIC:       overnight stays as medically necessary. The clinic may
                         also include temporary indoor or outdoor holding
                         areas. Overnight stays are only allowed when medically
                         necessary.
                         A commercial facility in which a cable is suspended
ZIP LINE:                above an incline to which a pulley and harness are
                         attached for a rider.
                         An area of land having a particular and consistent use
ZONE:                    or character, and subject to regulations pertaining to
                         that use.
                         The Torrey Zoning Map, adopted as the Torrey Zoning
ZONING MAP:              Map (appendix G) in this title, that depicts land use
                         zones and overlays within the Town's boundaries.
                         A laws that provides regulations and specifications
ZONING ORDINANCE:        for the creation of land use zones, and for the use of
                         land within a municipality. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021;
                         amd. Ord., 2-23-2022)
 
APPENDIX D
OFF-STREET PARKING STANDARDS
Use Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirement
Use                               Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirement
Bar                               1 space for each 200 square feet of public
                                  area and 1 space for each employee
Bed and breakfast                 1 space for each bedroom and each employee
Cafe/coffee shop/ small food      1 space for each four seats or 200 square
service                           feet of seating area, whichever is less, and
                                  1 space for each employee
Distillery/cidery/ brewery/winery 1 space for each 200 square feet of public
                                  space and one space for each employee
                                  80 feet of stacking area to accommodate the
Drive-through food and beverage   3 vehicles in the drive-up lane and the
                                  vehicle at the delivery window, and 1 space
                                  for each employee
Dwelling - accessory              1 space
Dwelling - multi- family          2 spaces per unit
Dwelling - single- family         2 spaces per unit
Food truck                        3 spaces
Government facility               1 space for each employee and one space for
                                  each 100 square feet of public meeting area
Grocery store/market              1 space for each 500 square feet of floor
                                  space and 1 space for each employee
                                  2 spaces for the primary dwelling, plus 1
Home occupation                   space for a customer and 1 space for an
                                  employee if there is one
Hotel                             1 space for each bedroom and 1 space for
                                  each employee
                                  1 space for each 500 square feet of public
Light manufacturing               space, 1 space for a customer, and 1 space
                                  for each employee
Mini-mart                         1 space for each 500 square feet of interior
                                  floor space and 1 space for each employee
Motel                             1 space for each bedroom and 1 space for
                                  each employee
Preschool/daycare                 1 space for each employee and 1 space for
                                  every 10 students
Professional offices/services     1 space for each 400 square feet of interior
                                  floor space and 1 space for each employee
Public use                        As approved by the Planning Commission,
                                  depending on the nature and size of the use
Recreational/ entertainment       As approved by the Planning Commission,
facility                          depending on the nature and size of the use
Religious building                1 space for each four seats in the main
                                  assembly area
Rental cabins/ campground         1 space for each cabin, one space for each
                                  camping area, and 1 space for each employee
                                  1 space for each four seats or 200 square
Restaurant                        feet of seating area, whichever is less, and
                                  1 space for each employee
Retail shop/store                 1 space for each 300 square feet of interior
                                  floor space and 1 space for each employee
RV park                           1 space for each RV and trailer site and 1
                                  space for each employee
                                  As approved by the Planning Commission,
School                            depending on the nature of the educational
                                  facility
Seasonal sales                    2 spaces for customers and 1 space for each
                                  employee
Veterinary clinic                 1 space for each 500 feet of public space
                                  and 1 space for each employee
Notes:
1.   The dimension of each parking space shall be 10x20 feet. All parking
shall be off-street.
2.   Parking is permitted in the property's set-back areas. However, parking
is not permitted in any buffering area.
3.   For the purposes of the parking regulations, "Employee" means each
Employee and/or the owner who is on duty.
4.   To reduce storm water run-off, it is strongly recommended that low impact
surfaces, such as crushed stone be used wherever possible.
 
(Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
APPENDIX E
ADJACENCY, COMPATIBILITY, BUFFERING, AND LANDSCAPE STANDARDS
The purpose of these standards is to ensure all new development in the Mixed
Use (MU) Zone are compatible with existing surroundings and to provide
residents and commercial entities in the MU recommendations for mitigating
potential conflicts where a new commercial entity adjoins an existing resident,
commercial, or agriculture use. When new buildings are developed next to
existing buildings on adjacent properties, particularly residences, there are
concerns that the bulk and height of the new structures, or their uses, may
have a negative impact on the adjoining uses and structures. When residential
and nonresidential uses are adjacent, there is added concern about lighting,
noise, odor, unsafe or hazardous conditions, and other nuisances. To address
these concerns, in addition to all other zoning requirements, the following are
recommend mitigation actions.
   A.   Recommended Minimum Yard Areas (Setbacks):
      1.   When a single-family residential use is adjoined by another single-
family residential use, duplex, or triplex/fourplex:
         a.   Any fencing provided maybe a maximum height of six feet (6');
         b.   Minimum side and rear setbacks shall be twelve feet (12') as
required by Appendix B;
      2.   When any residential use is adjoined by a nonresidential use:
         a.   Fencing may be provided to a maximum height of eight feet (8');
         b.   Minimum side and rear setbacks shall be twelve feet (12') as
required by Appendix B.
   B.   Recommended Buffering:
      1.   When a residential use is adjoined by a nonresidential use.
      2.   A minimum ten-foot (10') wide landscape area, provided as part of
the required setback, maybe provided adjacent to adjoining residential use
planted with vegetation. The ten foot (10) landscape and buffer area may only
be used for planting and screening purposes. When a nonresidential use adjoins
another nonresidential use:
         a.   Side and rear fencing may be provided to a maximum height of six
feet (6');
         b.   Side and rear setbacks shall be a minimum of twelve feet (12')
and shall provide a landscape area as required by in B1 above;
         c.   For all new nonresidential uses in the MU Zone, all buildings and
structures should maintain and enhance the Town's small-town and rural
character, and provide character and/or landscaping on the street-view side of
the property.
   C.   Landscape plans should achieve the following purposes:
      1.   Preserve and complement the character of the natural landscape,
mitigate building and parking lot impacts, and add aesthetic charm, interest
and character;
      2.   Provide visual interest and variety, and year-round site
beautification;
      3.   Provide screening elements and blend with the natural landscape;
      4.   Conserve water.
   D.   Landscape plans and landscape features should demonstrate and provide:
      1.   Landscape buffers between dissimilar or conflicting land uses.
Landscape buffers shall be provided for off-street parking and service areas,
and these areas shall be screened from public streets;
      2.   A soft landscape transitional treatment when man-made areas and
features adjoin areas of natural open space;
      3.   Use of plants and site materials consistent with, and of a similar
scale with, existing natural landscape, neighboring landscape, adjacent
streetscape areas, and native to the local environment;
      4.   Drought tolerant "xeriscape" landscaping is encouraged. Landscaping
improvements may also include berms, contouring, rocks and boulders;
      5.   The size and spacing of landscape elements should also be of
appropriate scale and character to all proposed site structures and features.
      6.   Cotton-less (male) cottonwood trees should be part of the landscape
plan and preserved (or replaced when necessary) along all Highway 24 frontages.
   E.   When walls, fences and barriers are located adjacent to public rights
of way that create a continuous surface greater than twenty feet (20') in
length, landscape and planting treatments should be provided to visually soften
the wall, fence or barrier.
   F.   Landscape plans should demonstrate that long-term maintenance factors
have been considered in the landscape design.
   G.   Landscape plans shall include a timeline for implementation. (Ord. 4-
21-001, 4-8-2021)
APPENDIX F
SALE OF GASOLINE AND/OR DIESEL STANDARDS
   A.   Have and maintain all necessary licenses and permits required by the
Federal Government and the Sate of Utah to sell motor fuels.
   B.   Maintain a policy of liability insurance in the amount of one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) to protect the general public from damages, claims, and
losses suffered by the general public as a result of negligent acts of the
company and/or its employees.
   C.   Defend, indemnify, and hold Torrey Town harmless from all liability and
damages of every kind arising out of use occupancy, and/or operation of its
business on or in connection with the property for which this conditional use
permit applies; including but not limited to all liability and damages for
personal injuries, death, and property damages sustained by any person or
entity occurring on or in connection with the business as well as all other
liability of every kind or description that relates in any way to the operation
its business and/or use of the property to which this conditional use permit
applies.
   D.   Storage tanks containment structure must be more than fifty feet (50')
from a residential property line.
   E.   Have and maintain a current Torrey Town business license.
   F.   Shall at all times abide by and be in compliance with health
regulations of the State of Utah at the location described in the conditional
use permit.
   G.   Shall at all times comply with all fire regulations of the State of
Utah at the location described in the conditional use permit.
   H.   Shall maintain adequate fire extinguishers and will also have available
water at the site for fire suppression.
   I.   Shall fully comply with all Federal and State rules, regulations, and
permitting requirements regarding the sale and storage of petroleum, oil, or
lubricants (POL).
   J.   Shall apply for and obtain a building permit, and will comply with all
building standards, including setback as described in the Building Code.
   K.   Shall paint all petroleum, oil, or lubricant (POL) storage tanks so
that they are a consistent color, preferably brown or brownish red, so as to
better blend with the natural environment.
   L.   All petroleum, oil, or lubricant (POL) storage tanks shall be doubled
walled to reduce the chances of water contamination. (Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
APPENDIX G
ZONE MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/abe1342f9d534f5e2b2e80e01d1d58d745748da2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-566.png]
(Ord. 4-21-001, 4-8-2021)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: Authority To Impose Conditions
11-1-4: Considerations
11-1-5: Scope And Applicability
11-1-6: Administrative Land Use Authority
11-1-7: Subdivision Approval Procedures - Review And Approval
11-1-7-1: Process For A Pre-Application Meeting Prior To Application Submission
11-1-7-2: Establishment Of Process And Application For Preliminary Subdivision
Application
11-1-7-3: Establishment Of Process And Application For Final Subdivision
Application
11-1-7-4: Specific Review Cycles For A Subdivision Improvement Plan Review
11-1-8: Preliminary Subdivision Plat Requirements
11-1-9: Final Subdivision Plat Requirements
11-1-10: Street Requirements
11-1-11: Dedication Of Streets, Street, Utility, And Public Improvements
11-1-12: Blocks
11-1-13: Lots
11-1-14: Dedications Of Parks, School Sites, Other Public Spaces
11-1-15: Easements
11-1-16: Completion Of Improvements And Security
11-1-17: Subdivision Exemption - Simple Lot Subdivision
11-1-18: Simple Lot Subdivision Review And Approval Process
11-1-19: Fees
11-1-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The underlying purposes of this Title is to promote the health, safety,
convenience and general welfare of the inhabitants of the town in the matter of
the subdivision of land and related matters affected by such subdivision.
   B.   This section applies to land use decisions arising from subdivision
applications for single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes.
   C.   To ensure the efficient and orderly development of land with the Town
of Torrey.
   D.   To avoid poorly planned development that:
      1.   Does not comply with the Torrey General Plan or Torrey Town
ordinances;
      2.   Cannot be adequately served by existing utilities, infrastructure,
or services; and
      3.   May be dangerous or unsafe.
   E.   To provide for:
      1.   Design standards for and construction of public improvements,
facilities, and utilities;
      2.   Access to public rights-of-way, including, but not limited to,
easements; and
      3.   The dedication of land deemed necessary for the proper development
of the subdivision.
   F.   Any proposed subdivision and its ultimate use shall be in the best
interests of the public and shall be in harmony with good neighborhood
development of the area concerned, and the subdivider shall present evidence to
this effect when requested to do so by the town.
   G.   Failure to follow the requirements herein will result in an illegal
subdivision. (Ord. 2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this Title shall have the respective
meanings hereinafter set forth, unless a different meaning clearly appears from
the context.
ADMINISTRATIVE LAND USE AUTHORITY: An individual, board, or commission,
appointed or employed by municipality, including the staff or the Planning
Commission.
HALF STREETS: Proposed streets with half the required right-of-way width for
its functional classification, located on the bounding edge of a parcel
proposed for development, in any subdivision.
OPEN SPACE: Planned common outdoor improved landscaped areas suitable for
relaxation and recreation. Open space does not include roads, driveways,
parking areas or linear sidewalk adjacent to vehicular access roads.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Town Planning Commission, unless another Planning
Commission is specifically named.
PROPERTY: Any tract, lot, parcel or several of the same collected together for
purposes of subdividing.
REVIEW CYCLE: The occurrence of:
   1.   The subdivider(s)'s submittal of a complete subdivision application;
   2.   The town's review of that subdivision application;
   3.   The town's response to that subdivision application, in accordance with
this section; and
   4.   The subdivider(s)'s reply to the town's response that addresses each of
the town's required modifications or requests for additional information.
SUBDIVIDER: An individual(s) or entity(ies) having record title in any tract,
lot, or parcel of land to be subdivided; or an agent of such individual(s) or
entity(ies) when such individual(s) or entity(ies) have provided written
consent and acknowledgment for such agent to act in behalf of the owner and
have outlined the scope of agent authority.
SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, re-subdivided or proposed to be divided
into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of
land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or
development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms, and conditions. Provided, however, that this definition of a subdivision
shall not include a bona fide division or partition of agricultural land in
parcels of more than one acre for other than developmental purposes, if such
division or petition meets the requirements of Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-605(2),
as amended, such has been approved by the culinary water authority; is
appropriately zoned; and conforms to all applicable land use ordinances, or has
properly received a variance from such requirements.
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION: A land use application for the subdivision of land.
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PLANS: The civil engineering plans associated with
required infrastructure improvements and municipally controlled utilities
required for a subdivision.
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE REVIEW: A review by the town to verify that a subdivision
land use application meets the criteria of the town's subdivision ordinances.
SUBDIVISION PHASE(S): The carrying out a subdivision in gradual stages.
Subdivision phase(s) may not be one lot and must be contiguous to other parts
of the subdivision.
SUBDIVISION PLAN REVIEW: A review of the subdivider's subdivision improvement
plans and other aspects of the subdivision land use application to verify that
the application complies with municipal ordinances and applicable installation
standards and inspection specifications for infrastructure improvements. (Ord.
2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-3: AUTHORITY TO IMPOSE CONDITIONS:
This section is designed to inform the subdivision subdivider(s) and the public
of the requirements for obtaining subdivision plat approval. Because each
parcel of real property is unique and has its own set of circumstances, and
because there are some aspects of subdivision development that cannot easily be
articulated, it is not possible to cover every possible contingency. Therefore,
the administrative land use authority has the authority to impose exactions
upon a subdivider in addition to the standards and requirements contained
herein, including but not limited to as exactions regarding water rights. (Ord.
2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-4: CONSIDERATIONS:
   A.   The Torrey Town General Plan shall guide the use of all land within the
boundaries of the town. The size and design of lots, the nature of utilities,
the design and improvement of streets, the type and intensity of land use, and
the provisions for any special facilities in any subdivision shall conform to
the greatest extent possible to the land uses shown and the objectives
established in the General Plan.
   B.   The subdivider shall make application as provided herein and prepare a
plat consistent with the standards and requirements contained herein and any
other standards adopted by the town and shall pay for the design, construction,
and inspection of the public improvements required. The town shall process the
plat in accordance with the regulations set forth herein. The subdivider shall
not alter or remove any vegetation from the proposed subdivision site or engage
in any site development until they have obtained the necessary approvals
contained in this Title. In cases where standards contained herein conflict
with any other standards adopted by the town, the stricter standards shall
apply.
   C.   The subdivider shall be aware of the most current Torrey Town
resolution that outlines the number of residential and commercial water
connections available for development. No exceptions will be made beyond what
is outlined in the most current resolution outlining available water
connections. (Ord. 2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-5: SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY:
From the effective date of this Title, no person shall subdivide any tract of
land which is located wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the
town, nor shall any person sell, exchange or offer for sale, or purchase or
offer to purchase any parcel of land which is any part of a subdivision of a
large tract of land nor shall any person offer for recording any deed conveying
such a parcel of land or any interest therein, unless he or she shall first
have or cause to have made a plat thereof, which plat shall be recorded before
such sale or exchange or purchase is effected, and which shall be in accordance
with all of the requirements of this Title. (Ord. 2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-6: ADMINISTRATIVE LAND USE AUTHORITY:
The appointment of administrative land use authority is hereby created. Torrey
Town hereby designates the Planning Commission as the administrative land use
authority for preliminary subdivision application approvals. Torrey Town hereby
designates a member appointed by the Town Council, the Town Maintenance
Supervisor, and the Town Engineer as the administrative land use authority for
final subdivision application approvals. The administrative land use authority
shall have such powers as are set forth in this section.
   A.   Only applies to subdivision applications for single family dwellings,
two (2) family dwellings, or town homes.
   B.   The administrative land use authority shall be appointed by the Torrey
Town Council via this title.
   C.   A land use decision of the administrative land use authority shall be
considered an administrative act.
   D.   The respective administrative land use authority shall approve the
preliminary subdivision application and the final subdivision application.
(Ord. 2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-7: SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCEDURES - REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
11-1-7-1: PROCESS FOR A PRE-APPLICATION MEETING PRIOR TO APPLICATION
SUBMISSION:
   A.   If a subdivider(s) requests a pre-application meeting, the town shall,
within fifteen (15) business days after the request, schedule the meeting to
review the concept plan and give initial feedback.
   B.   At the pre-application meeting, the town staff shall provide or have
available on the town website the following:
      1.   Copies of applicable land use regulations
      2.   A complete list of standards required for the project;
      3.   Preliminary subdivision and final subdivision application
checklists; and
      4.   Feedback on the concept plan. (Ord. 2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-7-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF PROCESS AND APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
APPLICATION:
   A.   Preliminary Subdivision Application:
      1.   The application for preliminary subdivision applications and
materials can be found on the town's website and at the town office.
      2.   These materials include provisions for:
         a.   The application;
         b.   The owner's affidavit;
         c.   An electronic copy of all plans in PDF format;
         d.   The preliminary subdivision plat drawings; and
         e.   A breakdown of fees due upon application.
   B.   Review Process And Timing:
      1.   The administrative land use authority may complete a preliminary
subdivision application review in a public meeting.
      2.   The administrative land use authority may require an in-person
onsite visit of the proposed subdivision.
      3.   The administrative land use authority may:
         a.   Receive public comment; and
         b.   Hold no more than one public hearing.
      4.   No later than thirty (30) business days after the day on which a
subdivider(s) submits a complete application, the town shall complete a review
of the subdivider(s)'s preliminary subdivision land use application.
      5.   The administrative land use authority will issue copies of the
preliminary subdivision application to the town engineer, and to all utility
owners with utility facilities that may be impacted by the development for
review and comment. These plans shall be examined by the town engineer, and
shall provide their determination whether the application is in accordance with
the requirements of this Title and all other related Torrey Town Code. The
subdivision improvement plans will not be reviewed and examined during the
preliminary subdivision application stage.
      6.   In reviewing the preliminary subdivision land use application, the
town may require:
         a.   Additional information relating to an subdivider(s)'s plans to
ensure compliance with Torrey Town Code and approved standards and
specifications for construction of public improvements; and
         b.   Modifications to plans that do not meet current ordinances,
applicable standards or specifications, or do not contain complete information.
      7.   The town's request for additional information or modifications to
plans under subsections B6a and B6b shall be specified and include citation to
all town ordinances, standards, or specifications that require the
modifications to plans, and shall be logged in an index of requested
modifications or additions.
      8.   Following the consideration of the preliminary subdivision
application, and all information and materials presented, the administrative
land use authority may approve the preliminary subdivision application, as
presented, approve the preliminary subdivision application with requirements,
or deny the preliminary subdivision application with findings of compliance or
non-compliance with this title and all other applicable town, County, and State
requirements.
      9.   One signed copy shall be authorization for the subdivider to proceed
with the preparation of plans, preparation of the final subdivision
application, and specifications for the improvements required.
      10.   For all proposed subdivisions, the approval of a preliminary
subdivision application by the administrative land use authority shall not
constitute final approval of the subdivision by the town, but permits the
subdivider(s) to proceed with the preparation of the final subdivision
application and all required documents. For such subdivisions, a preliminary
subdivision application approval shall not authorize the division or
development of land, but shall allow the presentation to the town of a final
subdivision application. The approval of a preliminary subdivision application
shall be effective for a period of one (1) year from the date of approval by
the administrative land use authority, at the end of which time the subdivider
(s) shall have submitted a final subdivision application. If a final
subdivision application is not received by the administrative land use
authority within the one (1) year period, the preliminary subdivision
application approval shall be void, and the subdivider(s) shall be required to
submit a new preliminary subdivision application, subject to the then existing
application and approval requirements in effect, and all other applicable town,
state and federal requirements. (Ord. 2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-7-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF PROCESS AND APPLICATION FOR FINAL SUBDIVISION
APPLICATION:
   A.   Final Subdivision Application:
      1.   The application for the final subdivision application and materials
can be found on the town's website and at the town office.
      2.   Approval authority for final subdivision application shall, assure
compliance with all applicable requirements of this ordinance.
   B.   Review Process And Timing:
      1.   No later than forty (40) business days after the day on which a
subdivider(s) submits a complete application, the town shall complete a review
of the subdivider(s)'s final subdivision land use application.
      2.   In reviewing the final subdivision land use application, the town
may require:
         a.   Additional information relating to an subdivider(s) to ensure
compliance with municipal ordinances and approved standards and specifications
for construction of public improvements; and
         b.   Modifications to plans that do not meet current ordinances,
applicable standards or specifications, or do not contain complete information.
      3.   The town's request for additional information or modifications to
plans under subsections B2a or B2b shall be specific and include citation to
all town ordinances, standards, or specifications that require the modification
to plans, and shall be logged in an index of requested modifications or
additions.
      4.   The administrative land use authority shall submit the plat for
approval to the town engineer, who shall check the engineering requirements of
the drawing. The subdivision improvement plans will be reviewed and examined
during the final subdivision application stage. Before any subdivision plat
will be accepted and approved, the subdivider shall furnish a bond, on the
property to be subdivided in the amount calculated by the town engineer, based
on an engineer's opinion of probable cost (i.e., cost estimate) of the proposed
improvements, to secure the performance of the following in a workmanlike
manner and according to specifications adopted by the town council where they
are required. Section 11-1-16 of this Title shall be followed in the
calculation of the bonding and improvements.
      5.   The plat shall also be submitted to the town attorney for approval
as to form and to review the guarantee of improvements and any agreements and
conditions of approval, including aid in construction or pioneering agreements,
development agreements, time to complete/extend, etc. Following a final
technical review by the town engineer and attorney, the final subdivision
application shall be presented to the administrative land use authority for
review and approval. The administrative land use authority may approve, approve
with requirements, or deny the final subdivision application, accompanied by
findings of fact.
      6.   The subdivider(s) for final subdivision application approval shall
pay all costs that may be incurred by the town for the provision of engineering
and legal services, provided by a licensed engineer or attorney, and necessary
to review the final subdivision application materials, or conformity to the
requirements of this title, other applicable town ordinances, other applicable
Local, State, and Federal requirements, and accepted civil engineering practice
as outlined in the town's consolidated fee schedule.
      7.   After the final subdivision application has been acknowledged,
certified, approved, and signed by all respective parties, the subdivider(s) of
the land shall record the final subdivision application in the Office of the
Wayne County Recorder. If the subdivider(s) does not record the plat within one
year it will be rendered void. The subdivider(s) is required to pay all fees,
including copies, for the recording of all final subdivision documents and
final plat. No construction of buildings shall be begun until after receipt of
bond, recording of the Final Plat, and approval of building permit(s).
      8.   The approval of a final subdivision application shall be effective
for a period of one (1) year from the date the final subdivision is approved by
the town, at the end of which time the final subdivision plat shall have been
recorded in the Office of the Wayne County Recorder. If the approved final
subdivision plat is not recorded within the one (1) year period of date of
approval the final subdivision approval shall be void, and the subdivider(s)
shall be required to submit a new final subdivision application, subject to the
then existing final subdivision application provisions of this ordinance and
all other applicable town, state and federal requirements. (Ord. 2024-05, 11-
14-2024)
11-1-7-4: SPECIFIC REVIEW CYCLES FOR A SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   The town requires the following review cycles with no more than four
(4) in total permitted:
      1.   The town shall not require more than four (4) review cycles for a
subdivision improvement plan.
      2.   The review cycle requirements of this apply:
         a.   To the review of a preliminary subdivision application, if the
town requires a subdivision improvement plan to be submitted with a preliminary
subdivision application; or
         b.   To the review of a final subdivision application, if the town
requires a subdivision improvement plan to be submitted with a final
subdivision application.
      3.   Subject to Subsections A4, unless the change or correction is
necessitated by the subdivider(s)'s adjustment to a subdivision improvement
plan set or an update to a phasing plan that adjusts the infrastructure needed
for the specific development, a change or correction not addressed or
referenced in the town's subdivision improvement plan review is waived.
      4.   A modification or correction necessary to protect public health and
safety or to enforce State or Federal law may not be waived.
   B.   If a subdivider(s) makes a material change on a plan set, the town has
the discretion to restart the review process at the first review of a
subdivision improvement plan, but only with respect to the portion of a
subdivision improvement plan set that the material changes substantially
affect.
   C.   If a subdivider(s) does not submit a revised plan within forty (40)
business days after the town requires a modification or correction, the town
shall have an additional twenty (20) business days to respond to the plans.
   D.   After the subdivider(s) has responded to the final review cycle, and
the subdivider(s) has complied with each modification requested in the town's
previous review cycle, the town may not require additional revisions if the
subdivider(s) has not materially changed the plan, other than changes that were
in response to requested modifications or corrections.
   E.   In addition to revised plans, a subdivider(s) shall provide written
explanation in response to the town's review comments, identifying and
explaining the subdivider(s)'s revisions and reasons for declining to make
revisions, if any. The subdivider(s)'s written explanation shall be
comprehensive and specific, including citations to applicable standards and
ordinances for the design and an index of requested revisions or additions for
each required correction. If a subdivider(s) fails to address a review comment
in the response, the review cycle is not complete and the subsequent review
cycle by the town may not begin until all comments are addressed.
   F.   If, on the fourth or final review, the town fails to respond within
twenty (20) business days, the town shall, upon request of the property owner,
and within ten (10) business days after the day on which the request is
received:
      1.   For a dispute arising from the subdivision improvement plans,
assemble an appeal panel in accordance with Utah Code Ann 10-9a-508(5)(d) et
seq. to review and approve or deny the final revised set of plans. Unless
otherwise agreed by the subdivider(s) and the town, the panel shall consist of
the following three (3) experts:
         a.   One licensed engineer, designated by the town;
         b.   One licensed engineer, designated by the land use subdivider(s);
and
         c.   One licensed engineer, agreed upon and designated by the two
designated engineers as appointed in subsections F1a and F1b.
      2.   A member of the panel assembled by the town under subsection F1 may
not have an interest in the application that is the subject of the appeal.
      3.   The land use subdivider(s) shall pay:
         a.   Fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the panel; and
         b.   The town's published appeal fee; or
      4.   For a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review, advise
the subdivider(s), in writing, of the deficiency in the application and of the
right to appeal the determination to the Torrey Town Planning Commission, as
the designated appeal authority. (Ord. 2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-8: PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary subdivision application,
with a preliminary plat map, of such proposed subdivision and shall submit one
digital copy to the town and prepare six (6) physical copies to the town to
help determine whether or not the proposed subdivision complies with all
regulations and requirements. An application shall include a percolation test
signed by the Central Utah Public Health Department.
   B.   The preliminary subdivision application and preliminary plat map shall
be drawn to a scale not smaller than one hundred feet (100') to the inch, and
shall include:
      1.   A legal description of the subdivision which shall be located in a
title block in the lower right corner of the plat and shall include the
subdivision name and the location including the section, township and range.
      2.   Its location as forming a part of a larger tract or parcel, where
the plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider's ownership. In such
case, a sketch of the prospective future street system of the unplatted parts
shall be submitted; and the street system of the party submitted shall be
considered in the light of adjustments and connections with the future street
system of the larger area;
      3.   The names and addresses of the subdivider, the engineer or surveyor
of the subdivision, and the owners of the land immediately adjoining the land
to be subdivided;
      4.   Contour map at appropriate intervals when required by the
administrative land use authority;
      5.   Building setback lines and numbering sequence;
      6.   Public utility easements;
      7.   The location, widths and other dimensions of all existing or platted
streets and other important features such as railroad lines, water courses,
utility lines, exceptional topography and structures within the proposed
subdivision and within a two-hundred-foot (200') perimeter of the subdivision;
      8.   Existing storm drains, water supply mains, and culverts within the
tract and immediately adjacent thereto;
      9.   The location, widths and other dimensions of proposed streets,
alleys, easements, parks, and other open spaces and lots, with proper labeling
of spaces to be dedicated to the public;
      10.   North point, scale and date;
      11.   Percolation test approved by the Central Utah Health Department,
and the identified areas in which the septic systems will be located;
      12.   Plans or written statements regarding the width and type of
proposed pavement, location, size and type of proposed sanitary septic disposal
facilities, proposed water mains and hydrants and other proposed utilities,
proposed stormwater drainage facilities and other proposed improvements,
planting and parks, and any grading of individual lots;
      13.   Verification of culinary water availability; and
      14.   Vicinity map.
   C.   In all cases where the subdivider includes more than one individual or
entity, the preliminary plat map and application when provided to the town
shall be accompanied by a notarized statement, bearing the signatures of all
owners of record of the property to be subdivided, designating a single
individual who shall act for and on behalf of the group in all appearances
before public bodies, agencies, or representatives, necessary to execute the
purpose of subdividing the property
   D.   Phasing plans shall be submitted with the preliminary application. The
phasing plan shall include the number of units or parcels to be developed in
each phase, the approximate timing of each phase, the timing on construction of
public improvements, and subdivision amenities to serve each phase whether on
or off site and the relationship between the public improvements in the current
subdivision and contiguous land previously subdivided. The subdivider may
request a revision of the phasing plan which may be necessary due to conditions
such as changing market conditions, inclement weather, or other factors. (Ord.
2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-9: FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The subdivider shall prepare a final subdivision application with a
final plat map of such proposed subdivision. The subdivider shall submit one
digital copy to the town and prepare six (6) physical copies to the town to
help determine whether or not the proposed subdivision complies with all
regulations and requirements.
   B.   The following shall not be included on the final plat but shall be
submitted with the final subdivision application:
      1.   Detailed cost estimates, prepared by an engineer, for the
improvements to be completed, and all other subdivision improvement plans;
      2.   All construction types and specifications. Cross sections and
profiles of the streets and construction drawings related to all of the
improvements to be constructed within the subdivision. All drawings and
materials shall be in compliance with town construction standards and be signed
and stamped by a registered professional engineer; and
      3.   Any proposed restrictive covenants.
   C.   The final subdivision application and plat map requirements shall
include:
      1.   A Mylar plat, together with six (6) paper copies with dimensions of
twenty-four inches by thirty-six inches (24" x 36"), and one (1) eight and one-
half inches by eleven inches (8½" x 11") copy;
      2.   Subdivision name, approved by the town and the general location of
the subdivision, in bold letters at the top of the sheet;
      3.   A north point and scale of the drawing and the date;
      4.   Accurately drawn boundaries, showing the proper bearings and
dimensions of all boundary lines of the subdivision properly tied to public
survey monuments. These lines should be slightly heavier than street and lot
lines;
      5.   The names, widths, lengths, bearings and curve data on centerlines
of proposed streets, alleys and easements; also, the boundaries, bearings and
dimensions of all portions within the subdivision, as intended to be dedicated
to the use of the public; the lines, dimensions, bearings and numbers of all
lots, blocks and parts reserved for any reason within the subdivision. All lots
and blocks are to be numbered consecutively under a definite system approved by
the town. All proposed streets shall be named or numbered consecutively under a
definite system approved by the town. All proposed streets shall be named or
numbered in accordance with and conform with the adopted street naming and
numbering system of the town;
      6.   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines or
official monuments which shall be accurately described in the plat and shown by
appropriate symbol. Basis of bearings shall be clearly stated;
      7.   Total dimensions of all lines including lengths, bearings, radii,
chords, internal angles and location of points of curvation;
      8.   The dedication to the public of all streets included in the
subdivision. Street monuments shall be installed by the surveyor as designated
on the plat and as required by Wayne County;
      9.   Vicinity map;
      10.   The location, names and existing widths of adjacent streets;
      11.   The names and numbers of adjacent subdivisions, and the names of
owners of adjacent unplatted land;
      12.   The boundaries of areas subject to flooding or storm water overflow
as determined by the Town approved civil engineer;
      13.   Location and size of septic tanks/drain fields, water mains and any
other private or public utility;
      14.   Indication of needed storm drain facilities with location, size and
outlets of the drainage system, if applicable;
      15.   The standard forms approved by the administrative land use
authority for all subdivision plats lettered for the following:
         a.   Description of land to be included in subdivision;
         b.   Registered professional engineer and/or land surveyor's
"certificate of survey";
         c.   Owner's dedication which shall warrant and defend and save the
town harmless against any easements or other encumbrances on the dedicated
streets which will interfere with the town's use, maintenance, and operation of
the streets;
         d.   Notary public's acknowledgment;
         e.   Administrative land use authority's certificate of approval;
         f.   The certificate of acceptance from the engineer chosen by the
town;
         g.   Town council's certificate of acceptance;
         h.   Town clerk's certificate of attest; and
      16.   A three-inch-by-three-inch (3" x 3") space in the lower right-hand
corner of the drawing for recording information shall be provided unless a
standard approved subdivision plat form is used
   D.   The subdivider shall furnish a complete set of profiles of all streets
existing and proposed within the subdivision to the administrative land use
authority at the time of submission of the final subdivision application.
   E.   The subdivider(s) of any land to be platted as a subdivision shall be
required to install such street improvements as the town shall require to
conform with surrounding areas, including but not limited to street grading and
surfacing, as well as street drainage and drainage structures, water mains,
monuments, street name signs, and fire hydrants, including hydrant and valve
boxes, all such improvements must comply with American Public Works Association
(APWA) standards, or adopted Torrey Town construction standards, whichever is
more stringent, and be under supervision of the town water superintendent or
town engineer, inclusive of street area. (Ord. 2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-10: STREET REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for
the continuation of the existing streets in adjoining areas (or their proper
protection where adjoining land is not subdivided), insofar as such may be
deemed necessary by the town. The street arrangement shall not cause
unnecessary hardship to owners of adjoining property when they plat their own
land and seek to provide for convenient access to it. Half streets along the
boundary of land proposed for subdivision or within any part of a subdivision
will not be permitted.
   B.   The alignment and width of all extended through streets shall be
preserved unless unusual topographical conditions make a modification
advisable.
   C.   Where a large subdivision abuts upon a major thoroughfare, the town may
require access streets, which are streets that is parallel to and adjacent to a
major thoroughfare or highway; and which provides access to abutting properties
and protection from through traffic, to be included in the street plan.
   D.   Street width is to be measured from lot line to lot line. The minimum
width of streets, unless otherwise expressly permitted by the town, so
measured, shall be:
      1.   For all streets, sixty-six feet (66'). The requirement for pavement
shall be at least thirty feet (30').
   E.   All dead-end streets must, unless otherwise expressly permitted by the
town, provide at their terminus a turnaround with a radius of at least fifty
feet (50'), and shall provide adequate means of drainage.
   F.   Between reverse curves a tangent of at least one hundred feet (100')
shall be required unless in the opinion of the town engineer such is not
necessary.
   G.   Streets shall intersect each other as near as possible at right angles.
   H.   Minimum street grades of 0.3% will be required with the maximum grade
being seven percent (7%) for secondary and major streets and ten percent (10%)
for all streets. Where the observance of this standard is impossible, the town
shall have the power to grant an exception when special pavement surfaces and
adequate leveling areas are installed or, in the opinion of the town, the best
subdivision of the land is thereby secured.
   I.   Where street lines within a block deflect from each other at any one
point more than ten degrees (10°), there shall be a connecting curve. The
radius of the curve for the inner street line should be not less than three
hundred fifty feet (350') for all streets.
   J.   New street names shall not duplicate those already existing. A street
obviously a continuation of another already in existence and named should bear
the same name. Before the street is named, the proposed name must be submitted
to and approved by the town.
   K.   All streets within the town limits will be required to be dedicated for
public use. No subdivision shall have private streets. The dedication of half
streets is prohibited.
   L.   No subdivision for residential development shall be approved except in
a residential district. (Ord. 2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-11: DEDICATION OF STREETS, STREET, UTILITY, AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   In the process of subdividing land, the subdivider(s) must adhere to
the town's requirements for installing street and utility improvements,
including street grading and surfacing, drainage structures, water mains,
monuments, street name signs, fire hydrants, and other specified improvements.
The dedication of public streets, easements, and other public improvements is
considered irrevocable upon approval of the final subdivision application by
the town, lasting until the final subdivision application and final plat is
recorded or for one year, whichever comes first.
   B.   During this period, the subdivider(s) is responsible for constructing
and installing the required public improvements in accordance with the town's
specifications and under the supervision of the town water superintendent or
town engineer. The subdivider(s) must also maintain and guarantee these
improvements for a period of two (2) years after completion and acceptance by
the town, certifying their compliance with the minimum requirements outlined in
the relevant town code.
   C.   For residential subdivisions, additional requirements apply, including
adherence to Title 9, Chapter 4 of the Torrey Town Code for street lighting.
The subdivider(s) is obligated to work with Garkane Energy to install street
lights at intersections and other specified locations. Moreover, if residential
properties within the subdivision are under common ownership or require a
homeowners association, the subdivider(s) shall cover the town's costs for
obtaining legal review by an attorney specializing in homeowner association
law. (Ord. 2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-12: BLOCKS:
The length of blocks generally shall be six hundred feet. The width of blocks
generally shall be sufficient to allow two tiers of lots. Blocks intended for
business or industrial use shall be designated specifically for such purposes
with adequate space set aside for off-street parking and delivery facilities.
(Ord. 2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-13: LOTS:
   A.   The lot arrangement, design and shape will be such that lots will
provide satisfactory and desirable sites for buildings, and be properly related
to topography, and conform to requirements set forth herein. Lots shall not
contain peculiarly shaped elongations solely to provide necessary square
footage which would be unusable for normal purposes.
   B.   All lots shown on the subdivision plat must conform to the minimum
requirements of the zoning ordinance, if any, then in effect for the zone in
which the subdivision is located, and to the minimum requirements of the
Central Utah Health Department for water supply and sewage disposal. The
minimum width for any residential building lot shall be as required by the
zoning ordinance then in effect for zoned areas.
   C.   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles, or radial to
the street line.
   D.   All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after subdividing a
large tract must be added to adjacent lots rather than allowed to remain as
unusable parcels.
   E.   Where the land covered by a subdivision includes two (2) or more
parcels in separate ownership and the lot arrangement is such that a property
ownership line divides one or more lots, the land in each lot so divided shall
be transferred by deed to either single ownership before approval of the final
subdivision application, and such transfer certified by the Clerk.
   F.   Every lot shall have frontage upon a dedicated or publicly approved
road or street, or right-of-way providing direct access to a dedicated or
publicly approved road or street. The required lot frontage shall be not less
than the minimum lot width requirement as measured at the minimum front yard
setback, as required by the zoning ordinance in which the lot is located. (Ord.
2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-14: DEDICATIONS OF PARKS, SCHOOL SITES, OTHER PUBLIC SPACES:
   A.   The town may require off-street parking areas within the retail center
of a new subdivision and specify maintenance requirements. Natural, scenic
features, and historic community assets are to be safeguarded by dedication to
a public or private agency by the subdivider.
   B.   For subdivisions with twenty (20) residential units or more, open space
must be provided at a minimum of one-half (½) acre per every twenty (20)
residential units, with a maximum requirement of two (2) acres total. The
provision of open space beyond these minimum requirements is encouraged.
   C.   Common open space areas used to meet the minimum square footage
requirement must be at least eighty feet (80') wide and separated from streets,
service, and parking areas by a fence. The open space should be green space
with a sprinkling system and lawn installed by the subdivider(s). Xeriscape and
recreational open spaces may be proposed by the subdivider and plans for such
areas must be submitted to the town for approval.
   D.   The town, at its discretion and upon request by the subdivider, will
consider various factors, including the design and amenities of the fully
developed open space, the number of residences served, access, parking, and
overall benefit to the town. For tracts less than forty (40) acres, public
space dedication may be combined with dedications from adjoining tracts to
create usable recreational areas, alleviating hardships on small tract
subdividers. (Ord. 2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-15: EASEMENTS:
All utilities shall be designed and constructed within deeded street right of
ways, unless otherwise approved by the town. Where exceptions are granted to
design and install utilities outside of platted street right of ways, easements
shall be provided to the town to accommodate construction and maintenance of
any such utilities. Easements for culinary water, irrigation water, storm water
drainage and other utilities shall be provided by the subdivider(s) and
designated on the plat as required to accommodate the utility systems in the
subdivision. Where natural drainage channels, interceptor systems or flood
hazard zones cross the subdivision, the subdivider(s) must obtain the necessary
permits to modify such drainage facilities, and designate the channels, systems
or flood hazard zones, and any associated restrictions, on the plat. No town
officer shall grant any permit, license, or certificate for the use of any
building or land if such use would be in violation of this Title. No utilities
may be installed until after their specific location and construction sequence
are approved by the town. (Ord. 2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-16: COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS AND SECURITY:
   A.   In order to protect buyers against purchasing property on which the
site improvement work is incomplete and may not be completed, and to protect
the public at large from dangerous and undesirable conditions that result from
unfinished site improvements, such as erosion, flooding and blowing dust, it is
the policy of the town that no plat will be approved within the town limits
unless and until the subdivider has provided adequate security for the benefit
of the town and the public to ensure completion of the site improvements in
full compliance with the approved subdivision improvement plans within two (2)
years from the date of plat approval.
   B.   A detailed site plan showing the location and nature of all on-site and
off-site improvements shall be submitted to the building inspector prior to
final plat approval. These plans shall be examined by the town engineer and
shall be approved by him or her if he or she determines them to be in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter and town ordinances.
   C.   No construction shall commence until town approval of site plans, the
town's receipt of adequate security, and approval of the final subdivision
application.
   D.   The amount of the security to be posted by the subdivider is to be
determined by the town and shall be equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the
amount reasonably estimated by the town engineer as being necessary to complete
remaining on and off-site improvements as shown on the approved plans. In the
event that the subdivider disputes the cost estimate of the town engineer, the
subdivider may prove lower construction cost by providing binding contracts
between the subdivider and the contractor or subcontractor appropriate to
perform the required work at a stated, fixed price. A full performance bond,
insuring performance by the subcontractor or contractor, must support these
contracts. Bid proposals are not satisfactory for this purpose. If the
contracts submitted are acceptable in form, the amount of security required
shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the total contract price of all such
contracts submitted, plus the estimated reasonable cost of performing work not
covered by the contracts. Specifications in such contracts shall be
sufficiently clear to identify the work called for under the contract.
   E.   Such bond shall not be released until the improvements have been
accepted by the town, upon recommendation of the town engineer. (Ord. 2024-05,
11-14-2024)
11-1-17: SUBDIVISION EXEMPTION - SIMPLE LOT SUBDIVISION:
   A.   The Utah State Code offers an exemption from many subdivision
requirements for subdivisions with four (4) or fewer lots. The Town of Torrey
has adopted this process, allowing simple lot subdivisions with up to four (4)
lots. The goal is to provide a fast and straightforward process where property
is divided through a metes and bounds survey. A simple lot subdivision may
include no more than four (4) lots. However, applicants can choose to bypass
the simple lot process and instead follow the standard preliminary and final
plat subdivision procedures.
   B.   To be eligible for a simple lot subdivision, the proposal must meet the
following criteria:
      1.   Be intended for single-family dwellings and any associated accessory
apartments;
      2.   Be located on land zoned for such use;
      3.   Contain four (4) or fewer lots;
      4.   Not require any legislative approvals such as a zone change or text
amendment. If legislative approval is needed, it must be pursued separately and
completed before the Planning Commission reviews the request;
      5.   Not conflict with any proposed street lines mapped in the general
plan unless the Town has approved the street's location and dedication, along
with any required public easements or lands;
      6.   Comply with all applicable land use ordinances and subdivision
requirements;
      7.   Any property that has previously been granted a variance will be
considered compliant regarding the issue that led to the variance.
   C.   The applicant for a simple lot subdivision must:
      1.   Submit an application on the Town's prescribed form;
      2.   Provide an electronic PDF of the metes and bounds survey of the land
to be subdivided, drawn to scale and including sufficient information to
determine boundaries;
      3.   Ensure the survey is certified by a licensed land surveyor.
   D.   The application for a simple lot subdivision must include:
      1.   A statement of the zone, lot size, width, depth, and frontage along
a public street for each proposed lot;
      2.   "Will serve" letters from all required utility providers, with
utility hookups for each proposed lot;
      3.   Approval from the culinary water authority;
      4.   County Health Department approval for any septic system, if
applicable;
      5.   Applicant or authorized agent's name and contact information;
      6.   A title report showing ownership and any encumbrances affecting the
property;
      7.   Property address and parcel numbers for all properties involved;
      8.   A metes and bounds description of the property;
      9.   A subdivision name approved by the Wayne County Recorder's Office to
avoid conflicts with existing subdivisions;
      10.   A record of survey map for each new lot, detailing the survey
location, date, scale, distances, bearings, boundary descriptions, monuments,
and surveyor information, as well as an explanation of the purpose and basis of
the survey.
   E.   If necessary, the Town Engineer may also request additional documents
such as:
      1.   A soils report, addressing issues like hill stabilization, road
design, foundation impacts, and soil stability, signed by a licensed civil
engineer;
      2.   A stormwater plan with calculations showing compliance with
construction standards, signed by a licensed civil engineer;
      3.   A wetland delineation study if applicable, which may require review
by a wetlands scientist hired by the Town, with all costs borne by the
applicant;
      4.   Other hazard information, such as FEMA floodplain details or data
related to natural hazard mitigation. (Ord. 2024-05, 11-14-2024)
11-1-18: SIMPLE LOT SUBDIVISION REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   The review and approval of complete applications are intended to be
timely, following these steps:
      1.   An applicant may request a meeting with Town staff and
representatives before submitting an application to discuss the requirements
and review the process.
      2.   The applicant must submit the application along with all required
materials. The Town will first check the application for completeness. If any
required information is missing, the application will be returned to the
applicant until all necessary materials are included. Once deemed complete, the
Town will initiate an administrative review.
   B.   The Town will assess the application to ensure compliance with all
applicable requirements. Key questions include:
      1.   Have all required conditions been satisfied, and are all submitted
materials complete and accurate?
      2.   Does the application meet the code requirements? Common review items
include lot size, minimum lot frontage along a public street, utility
connections, and public right-of-way improvements.
      3.   Are any lots located in a hazard area, such as a FEMA floodplain? If
so, do they meet the applicable regulations for such hazards?
   C.   If all requirements are met, the project will be forwarded to the
Planning Commission for a recommendation.
   D.   Planning Commission Review:
      1.   The Planning Commission may hold a public hearing. A notice will be
sent to all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the property,
informing them of the hearing's time, place, and the nature of the request.
      2.   If the proposed simple lot subdivision meets all applicable
requirements, the Planning Commission will approve the application. If the
applicant does not meet the requirements, the application will be denied.
   E.   Administrative Land Use Authority Review:
      1.   Once approved by the Planning Commission, the Simple Lot Subdivision
Application will be forwarded to the Administrative Land Use Authority for
final approval.
   F.   Recording The Record Of Survey:
      1.   Once the Administrative Land Use Authority has approved the simple
lot subdivision, the Town will issue a written certificate of approval to
accompany the record of survey. At a minimum, the document must be notarized by
the Town Recorder, specify the subdivision name, the number of lots, and the
date of approval.
      2.   The applicant must submit a check to cover the recording fees. The
Record of Survey, along with the written certificate of approval, must be
recorded in the Office of the Wayne County Recorder within one year of
approval.
   G.   Expiration:
      1.   If the Record of Survey application is not completed within one year
of submission, the application will lapse, and the applicant must submit a new
application.
      2.   If the Record of Survey is not recorded within one year of approval,
the approval will lapse. The applicant must seek a new approval and comply with
any updated regulations.
   H.   Limitation:
      1.   A property owner, whether an individual or part of an LLC or other
entity, may create only one simple lot subdivision within a five (5) year
period.
      2.   A parcel of land may only be subdivided once through the simple lot
subdivision process.
      3.   Any further division of land for development, either current or
future, must follow the Preliminary and Final Plat process. (Ord. 2024-05, 11-
14-2024)
11-1-19: FEES:
Subdivision approval within the town shall be subject to the following fees
established by the legislative body:
   A.   Preliminary Subdivision Application Fee: The legislative body shall by
resolution from time to time prescribe the amount of such fee, which shall be
for the purpose of reimbursing the town for the expense of checking and
reviewing such preliminary subdivision plats.
   B.   Final Subdivision Application Fee: The legislative body shall by
resolution from time to time prescribe the amount of such fee, which shall be
for the purpose of reimbursing the town for the expense of checking and
reviewing such final subdivision plats. As part of recording the subdivision,
the subdivider(s) shall also pay the normal fee for recording a subdivision in
Wayne County as established by the Wayne County Recorder.
   C.   Inspection Fee: At the time of filing the final subdivision
application, the subdivider(s) will deposit with the town an inspection fee
consisting of three percent (3%) of the estimated cost of improvements, as
approved by the town. The town will draw on this deposit to pay the costs of
inspection services for the subdivision. After final approval of all
subdivision improvements, the town will return to the subdivider(s) any unused
portion of the inspection fee. In the event that inspection costs exceed the
subdivision fee deposit, the subdivider(s) will pay to the town the additional
inspection costs. (Ord. 2024-05, 11-14-2024)
 
