CITY CODE
of
WELLSVILLE CITY
UTAH
2009
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-01, passed February 7, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Wellsville, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2024-01, passed February 7, 2024.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2009-02
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE WELLSVILLE, UTAH CITY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of Wellsville, Utah,
as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city
code of the city of Wellsville, Utah prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the city, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the city as enacted by the mayor and city council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
PASSED this 1st day of April, 2009.
APPROVED this 1st day of April, 2009.
/s/  Ruth P. Maughan, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/  Don Hartle, City Recorder
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:   Thomas G. Bailey, Gary Bates, Ron Case, Jackie D. Orton and Marcene
Parker
NAYS:   None
ABSENT:   None
   Seal
      POSTED: April 1, 2009
      /s/  Don Hartle
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
WELLSVILLE CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Codification Authority
1-1-3: Reference Applies To Amendments
1-1-4: Acceptance Of Code
1-1-5: Amendments To Code
1-1-6: Alterations To Code
1-1-7: Construction
1-1-8: Statutes Or Codes Included And Excluded
1-1-9: References To Specific Ordinances
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of Wellsville City. This code of
ordinances shall be known as the WELLSVILLE CITY CODE and it shall be
sufficient to refer to said code as the Wellsville City code in any prosecution
for the violation of any provision thereof, or in any proceeding at law or
equity. It shall be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to, amending,
correcting or repealing all or any part or portion thereof as an addition to,
amendment to, correction or repeal of the Wellsville City code. Further
reference may be had to the titles, chapters, sections and subsections of the
Wellsville City code, and such references shall apply to that numbered title,
chapter, section and subsection as it appears in the code. (1991 Code §
1.01.020, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
1-1-2: CODIFICATION AUTHORITY:
This code consists of all the regulatory and penal ordinances and certain of
the administrative ordinances of the city, codified pursuant to the provisions
of Utah Code Annotated section
10-3-707. (1991 Code § 1.01.030, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
1-1-3: REFERENCE APPLIES TO AMENDMENTS:
Whenever a reference is made to this code as the Wellsville City code, or to
any portion thereof, or to any ordinance of the city, the reference shall apply
to all amendments, corrections and additions heretofore, now or hereafter made.
(1991 Code § 1.01.050, as amended)
1-1-4: ACCEPTANCE OF CODE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2009 Code)
1-1-5: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the city
code. (2009 Code)
1-1-6: ALTERATIONS TO CODE:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city recorder shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city
recorder. Any person having custody of a copy of the city code shall make every
effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed.
Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered or made available to such person through the office of
the city recorder. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and
shall be returned to the office of the city recorder when directed so to do by
order of the city council. (2009 Code)
1-1-7: CONSTRUCTION:
The provisions of this code and the ordinances of the city, and all proceedings
under them, are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to
promote justice. (1991 Code § 1.04.080, as amended)
1-1-8: STATUTES OR CODES INCLUDED AND EXCLUDED:
Any reference or citation to any statute shall not be interpreted or construed
to include, incorporate or make the citation or statute part of this code,
unless the provisions of this code specifically include, incorporate or make
the citation or statute part of this code by reference or incorporation, and
any such reference or citation not specifically included or incorporated may be
changed, amended or deleted without publication on an order of the governing
body. (1991 Code § 1.04.120, as amended)
1-1-9: REFERENCES TO SPECIFIC ORDINANCES:
The provisions of this code shall not in any manner affect matters of record
which refer to, or are otherwise connected with, ordinances which are therein
specifically designated by number or otherwise and which are included within
the code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to the corresponding
provisions contained within this code. (1991 Code § 1.01.070, as amended)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the city passed prior
to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances. (2009 Code)
   B.   Effect Of Code On Past Actions And Obligations: Neither the adoption of
this code nor the repeal or amendment of any ordinance, or part or portion of
any ordinance, of the city shall in any manner affect the prosecution for
violations of ordinances, which violations were committed prior to the
effective date hereof, nor be construed as a waiver of any license, fee or
penalty at said effective date due and unpaid under such ordinances, nor be
construed as affecting any of the provisions of such ordinances relating to the
collection of any such license, fee or penalty, or the penal provisions
applicable to any violation thereof, nor to affect the validity of any bond or
cash deposit in lieu thereof required to be posted, filed or deposited pursuant
to any ordinance, and all rights and obligations thereunder appertaining shall
continue in full force and effect. (1991 Code § 1.01.080, as amended)
   C.   Repeal Shall Not Revive: The repeal of an ordinance shall not repeal
the repealing clause of an ordinance, or revive any ordinance which has been
repealed thereby. (1991 Code § 1.04.090, as amended)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2009 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2009 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this code. The city council declares
that it would have passed this code, and each section, subsection, sentence,
clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases had been declared invalid
or unconstitutional, and if for any reason this code should be declared invalid
or unconstitutional, then the original ordinance or ordinances shall be in full
force and effect. (1991 Code § 1.01.100, as amended)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Title, Chapter And Section Headings
1-3-4: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. (2009 Code)
   C.   Computation Of Time: Except when otherwise provided, the time within
which an act is required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first
day and including the last day, unless the last day is Sunday or a holiday, in
which case it shall also be excluded. (1991 Code § 1.04.070, as amended)
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise. (2009 Code)
   E.   Gender: Each gender includes the masculine, feminine and neuter
genders.
   F.   Singular And Plural: The singular number includes the plural and the
plural includes the singular.
   G.   Tenses: Words used in the present tense include the past and the future
tenses and vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable. (1991 Code § 1.04.040,
as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   H.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   I.   May/Shall, Must: The word "may" is permissive; the words "shall" and
"must" are mandatory. (2009 Code)
   J.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and
appropriate meaning. (1991 Code § 1.04.030, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   K.   Officers And Employees: Whenever any officer, employee, department,
board or commission is referred by title, such reference shall be construed as
if followed by the words "of Wellsville City". (1991 Code § 1.04.020, as
amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection", or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the city ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2009 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this code and the ordinances
of the city, shall be construed as defined in this section unless from the
context a different meaning is intended or unless a different meaning is
specifically defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words
and phrases:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BUSINESS: Any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation or enterprise for
which a license is required by any ordinance of the city.
CHIEF OF POLICE: The appointed chief of police of Wellsville City, Utah, or the
head of the law enforcement agency providing services to the city by contract
or otherwise.
CITY: Wellsville City, Utah, or the area within the territorial limits of
Wellsville City, Utah, and such territory outside the city over which the city
has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory
provision.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of Wellsville City, Utah. "All its members" or
"all council members" means the total number of council members holding office.
CITY RECORDER: The individual appointed to act as the city recorder.
CODE: The city code of Wellsville City.
COUNTY: The county of Cache, state of Utah.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or other activity subject to city regulation,
authorization or limitation.
GOVERNING BODY: The city council of Wellsville City.
HIGHWAY, ROAD: Means and includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the
words "county way", "county road", "common road", and "state road".
LAW: Applicable federal law, the constitution and statutes of the state of
Utah, the ordinances of Wellsville City, and, when appropriate, any and all
rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
LICENSE: Any certificate or license issued by the city.
LOCATION: Whenever any act, conduct or offense is prohibited or required and no
reference is made to location, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the act, conduct or offense prohibited or required shall be within
the boundaries of the city.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OATH: An affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear"
and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act, action or conduct prohibited by this code, or the failure to
perform any acts required by this code.
OFFICER OR OFFICIAL: Any elected or appointed person employed by the city,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: A natural person, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
association, club, company, corporation, business, trust, organization, or the
manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Money, goods, chattels, things in action and evidences of
debt.
PRECEDING AND FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Lands, tenements and hereditaments.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such act or notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary
for the expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
STATE: The state of Utah.
STREET: All streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, places, squares,
curbs or other public ways in the city which have been or may hereafter be
dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so designated
in any law of this state.
TENANT AND OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
WEEK: Any seven (7) day period.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1991 Code § 1.04.010, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
1-3-3: TITLE, CHAPTER AND SECTION HEADINGS:
Title, chapter and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to
govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of
the provisions of any title, chapter or section hereof. (1991 Code § 1.01.060,
as amended)
1-3-4: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1991
Code § 1.04.100, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-3: Acts By Agents
1-4-4: Prohibited Acts Include Causing And Permitting
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 :
      1.   Criminal: The city council may impose a minimum criminal penalty for
the violation of any municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum
class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301 or by a
term of imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of
imprisonment.
      2.   Civil:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A2b of this section, the city
council may prescribe a minimum civil penalty for the violation of any
municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
         b.   A municipality may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication
for the violation of a municipal moving traffic ordinance.
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   C.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined an amount not to exceed the class C
misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
   D.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person who has been convicted of an offense may,
in addition to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not
to exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction.
   E.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the city, or for an offense
defined outside of this code over which this city has jurisdiction, for which
no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the
court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-3-703.
2 2. UCA § 76-3-204.
3 3. UCA § 76-3-205.
4 1. UCA § 76-3-301.
5 2. UCA § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this city shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date hereof which involve an
offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance with this
chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this city when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this city, or which is expressly designated an infraction, and
any offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this city which is
not designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified, is an
infraction.
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. UCA § 76-3-104.
1-4-3: ACTS BY AGENTS:
When an act is required by this code or by an ordinance, the same being such
that it may be done as well by an agent as by the principal, such requirement
shall be construed to include all such acts performed by an authorized agent.
(1991 Code § 1.04.050, as amended)
1-4-4: PROHIBITED ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING AND PERMITTING:
Whenever in this code or in the ordinances of the city any act or omission is
made unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding,
abetting, suffering or concealing the fact of such act or omission. (1991 Code
§ 1.04.060, as amended)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Eligibility And Residency Requirements
1-5-2: Election, Terms; Vacancies
1-5-3: Mayor
1-5-4: City Council
1-5-5: Meetings; Procedure And Conduct
1-5-6: Ordinances And Resolutions; Procedures
1-5-1: ELIGIBILITY AND RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Declaration Of Candidacy: A person filing a declaration of candidacy
for a city office shall:
      1.   Have been a resident of the city in which the person seeks office
for at least three hundred sixty five (365) consecutive days immediately before
the date of the election; and
      2.   Meet the other requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-
203.
   B.   Annexed Areas: A person living in an area annexed to the city meets the
residency requirement of this section if that person resided within the area
annexed to the city for at least three hundred sixty five (365) consecutive
days before the date of the election.
   C.   Registered Voter: Any person elected to city office shall be a
registered voter in the city.
   D.   Residency Maintained: Each elected officer of the city shall maintain
residency within the boundaries of the city during the officer's term of
office.
   E.   Residence Outside City: If an elected officer of the city establishes a
principal place of residence as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-2-
105 outside of the city during the officer's term of office, the office is
automatically vacant.
   F.   Continuous Absence From City: If an elected city officer is absent from
the city any time during the officer's term of office for a continuous period
of more than sixty (60) days without the consent of the city council, the city
office is automatically vacant. (2009 Code)
1-5-2: ELECTION, TERMS; VACANCIES:
   A.   Election, Terms: The election and terms of office shall be as follows:
      1.   The offices of mayor and approximately half the council members
shall be filled in municipal elections held in 1977. The terms shall be for
four (4) years. These offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal
elections.
      2.   The offices of the remaining council members shall be filled in a
municipal election held in 1979. The terms shall be for four (4) years. These
offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal elections.
   B.   Vacancy In Office: Mayor or city council vacancies shall be filled as
provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510. (2009 Code)
1-5-3: MAYOR:
   A.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection A2 of this section, the mayor:
         a.   Is the chief executive officer of the city to whom all employees
of the city report;
         b.   Shall:
            (1)   Keep the peace and enforce the laws of the city;
            (2)   Ensure that all applicable statutes and city ordinances and
resolutions are faithfully executed and observed;
            (3)   If the mayor remits a fine or forfeiture under subsection A1c
(2) of this section, report the remittance to the city council at the council's
next meeting after the remittance;
            (4)   Perform all duties prescribed by statute or city ordinance or
resolution;
            (5)   Report to the city council the condition and needs of the
city; and
            (6)   Report to the city council any release granted under
subsection A1c(4) of this section;
         c.   May:
            (1)   Recommend for city council consideration any measure that the
mayor considers to be in the best interests of the city;
            (2)   Remit fines and forfeitures;
            (3)   If necessary, call on residents of the city over the age of
twenty one (21) years to assist in enforcing the laws of the state and
ordinances of the city;
            (4)   Release a person imprisoned for a violation of a city
ordinance;
            (5)   With the city council's advice and consent:
               (A) Assign or appoint a member of the city council to administer
one or more departments of the city; and
               (B) Appoint a person to fill:
                  (i) A city office; or
                  (ii) A vacancy on a commission or committee of the city; and
            (6)   At any reasonable time, examine and inspect the official
books, papers, records or documents of:
               (A) The city; or
               (B) Any officer, employee or agency of the city.
      2.   The powers and duties in subsection A1 of this section are subject
to:
         a.   City ordinances in effect on May 4, 2008, modifying the powers
and duties of the mayor; and
         b.   The city council's authority to limit or expand the mayor's
powers and duties under Utah Code Annotated section 10-3b-303(2)(a).
   B.   Voting; Authority: The mayor:
      1.   Is, except as provided in subsection B2 of this section, a nonvoting
member of the city council;
      2.   Votes as a voting member of the council:
         a.   On each matter for which there is a tie vote of the other council
members present at a council meeting; or
         b.   When the city council is voting on:
            (1)   Whether to appoint or dismiss a city manager; or
            (2)   An ordinance that enlarges or restricts the mayor's powers,
duties or functions;
      3.   Is the chair of the city council and presides at all council
meetings;
      4.   Exercises ceremonial functions for the city;
      5.   May not veto an ordinance, tax levy or appropriation passed by the
city council;
      6.   Except as modified by ordinance under Utah Code Annotated section
10-3b-303(2), has the powers and duties described in subsection A of this
section; and
      7.   May, within budget constraints, appoint one or more administrative
assistants to the mayor.
   C.   Mayor Pro Tempore:
      1.   If the mayor is absent or unable or refuses to act, the city council
may elect a member of the council as mayor pro tempore, to:
         a.   Preside at a city council meeting; and
         b.   Perform, during the mayor's absence, disability or refusal to
act, the duties and functions of mayor.
      2.   The city recorder shall enter in the minutes of the city council
meeting the election of a council member as mayor pro tempore under subsection
C1 of this section. (2009 Code)
1-5-4: CITY COUNCIL:
The city council:
   A.   Is the legislative body of the city and exercises the legislative
powers and performs the legislative duties and functions of the city; and
   B.   May:
      1.   Adopt rules and regulations not inconsistent with statute, for the
efficient administration, organization, operation, conduct and business of the
city;
      2.   Prescribe by resolution additional duties, powers and
responsibilities for any elected or appointed city official, unless prohibited
by statute;
      3.   Require by ordinance that any or all appointed officers reside in
the city;
      4.   Create any office that the city council considers necessary for the
government of the city;
      5.   Provide for filling a vacancy in an elective or appointive office;
      6.   Take any action allowed under Utah Code Annotated section 10-8-84;
and
      7.   Perform any function specifically provided for by statute or
necessarily implied by law. (2009 Code)
1-5-5: MEETINGS; PROCEDURE AND CONDUCT:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The governing body shall hold two (2) regular
meetings, which shall be held on the first and third Wednesdays of each month,
at the Wellsville City offices, 75 East Main Street, which meetings shall begin
promptly at six o'clock (6:00) P.M.; provided, however, that if the meeting
date is a legal holiday, then the governing body may reschedule the meeting or
cancel the meeting. (Ord. 2004-03, 4-21-2004)
   B.   Special Meetings:
      1.   The mayor or two (2) council members may order the convening of a
special meeting of the city council.
      2.   Each order convening a special meeting of the city council shall:
         a.   Be entered in the minutes of the city council; and
         b.   Provide at least three (3) hours' notice of the special meeting.
      3.   The city recorder shall serve notice of the special meeting on each
council member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice personally
or by leaving it at the member's usual place of abode.
      4.   The personal appearance by a council member at a special meeting of
the council constitutes a waiver of the notice required under subsection B3 of
this section.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the governing body shall be held in
compliance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 52, chapter 4,
relating to open and public meetings. (2009 Code)
1-5-6: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Power Exercised By Ordinance: The city council may pass any ordinance
to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity,
business, conduct or condition authorized by statute or any other provision of
law. An officer of the city shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where
he relied on or enforced an ordinance he reasonably believed to be a valid
ordinance. It shall be a defense to any action for punitive damages that the
official acted in good faith in enforcing an ordinance or that he enforced an
ordinance on advice of legal counsel.
   B.   Form Of Ordinance: Any ordinance passed by the city council shall
contain and be in substantially the following order and form:
      1.   A number;
      2.   A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
      3.   A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;
      4.   An ordaining clause which states: "Be it ordained by Wellsville
City:";
      5.   The body or subject of the ordinance;
      6.   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of
the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment for the violation of the
city ordinance; or, the penalty may establish a classification of penalties and
refer to such ordinance in which the penalty for such violation is established;
      7.   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the
date when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this section;
      8.   A line for the signature of the mayor or acting mayor to sign the
ordinance;
      9.   A place for the city recorder to attest the ordinance and affix the
seal of the city.
   C.   Requirements As To Form; Effective Date:
      1.   Ordinances passed or enacted by the city council shall be signed by
the mayor, or if he is absent, by the mayor pro tempore, or by a quorum of the
city council, and shall be recorded before taking effect. No ordinance shall be
void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform to the provisions of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-3-704(1), (2), (3) or (4).
      2.   Ordinances shall become effective twenty (20) days after publication
or posting or thirty (30) days after final passage by the city council,
whichever is closer to the date of final passage, but ordinances may become
effective at an earlier or later date after publication or posting if so
provided in the ordinance.
      3.   Ordinances which do not have an effective date shall become
effective twenty (20) days after publication or posting, or thirty (30) days
after final passage by the city council, whichever is sooner.
   D.   Publication And Posting Of Ordinances:
      1.   Before an ordinance may take effect, except an ordinance enacted
under Utah Code Annotated sections 10-3-706 through 10-3-710, the governing
body shall:
         a.   Deposit a copy of the ordinance in the office of the city
recorder; and
         b.   (1) Publish a short summary of the ordinance at least once:
   (A) In a newspaper published within the city; or
   (B) If there is no newspaper published within the city, in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city; or
            (2)   Post a complete copy of the ordinance in three (3) public
places within the city.
      2.   a. Any ordinance, code or book, other than the state code, relating
to building or safety standards, municipal functions, administration, control
or regulations, may be adopted and shall take effect without further
publication or posting, if reference is made to the code or book and at least
one copy has been filed for use and examination by the public in the office of
the city recorder prior to the adoption of the ordinance by the governing body.
         b.   Any state law relating to building or safety standards, municipal
functions, administration, control or regulations, may be adopted and shall
take effect without further publication or posting if reference is made to the
state code.
         c.   The ordinance adopting the code or book shall be published in the
manner provided in this subsection.
   E.   Recording, Numbering And Certification Of Passage:
      1.   The city recorder shall record, in a book used exclusively for that
purpose, all ordinances passed by the city council. The city recorder shall
give each ordinance a number, if the city council has not already so done.
Immediately following each ordinance, or codification of ordinances, the city
recorder shall make or cause to be made a certificate stating the date of
passage and of the date of publication or posting, as required. The record and
memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the
contents, passage and publication or posting of the ordinance or codification.
(2009 Code)
      2.   The city recorder shall assign all ordinances a number. The first
number of such an ordinance shall be the year the ordinance is adopted,
followed by a dash, which is followed by a number, which shall be a sequential,
ascending number indicating the order in which such ordinance was adopted
during the year.
      3.   Failure to comply with this subsection shall not affect or render
invalid any ordinance of the city. (1991 Code § 1.04.110, as amended; amd. 2009
Code)
   F.   Resolutions:
      1.   Purpose: Unless otherwise required by law, the city council may
exercise all administrative powers by resolution, including, but not limited
to: a) establishing water and sewer rates; b) charges for garbage collection
and fees charged for city services; c) establishing personnel policies and
guidelines; and d) regulating the use and operation of the city property.
Punishment, fines or forfeitures may not be imposed by resolution.
      2.   Form: Any resolution passed by the city council shall be in a form
and contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.
      3.   Publication; Effective Date: Resolutions may become effective
without publication or posting and may take effect on passage or at a later
date as the city council may determine, but resolutions may not become
effective more than three (3) months from the date of passage. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Compensation And Salaries
1-6-2: Bond Requirements
1-6-1: COMPENSATION AND SALARIES:
   A.   Elected and Statutory Officers: The salaries and stipend of the elected
officials and statutory officers shall be set as follows:
 
Mayor                Salary  $1050.00 quarterly
Mayor                Stipend $ 975.00 quarterly
Council Members      Salary  $ 445.00 quarterly
Justice of the Peace Salary  $2,311.00 monthly
City Manager         Salary  $5,354.00 monthly
City Recorder        Salary  $3,570.00 monthly
City Treasurer       Salary  $5162.00 monthly
 
   B.   When Paid: The City Recorder shall pay each elected officer quarterly,
the Justice of the Peace monthly, and the City Manager, City Recorder, and City
Treasurer semimonthly.
   C.   Per Diem: Each elected and non-elected individual shall receive mileage
and per diem for all trips approved by the governing body and/or the City
Manager according to the schedule adopted by resolution 2019-02.
   D.   Travel Expense Reimbursement: The City Recorder shall pay the elected
officers as follows:
 
Mayor           $75.00 quarterly
Council Members $75.00 quarterly
 
   E.   Insurance: The City shall pay the following premiums:
 
Mayor           Life
Council Members Life
                Employee and family coverage for family medical and dental, up
City Manager    to a maximum of 95% per monthly premium, plus long-term
                disability, and life insurance on employee and qualifying
                family.
                Employee and family coverage for family medical and dental, up
City Recorder   to a maximum of 95% per monthly premium, plus long-term
                disability, and life insurance on employee and qualifying
                family.
                Employee and family coverage for family medical and dental, up
City Treasurer  to a maximum of 95% per monthly premium, plus long-term
                disability, and life insurance on employee and qualifying
                family.
 
   F.   The City shall pay the retirement premiums with the Utah State
Retirement System for the following:
      City Manager
      City Recorder
      City Treasurer
      Justice of the Peace
(Ord. 2016-02, 6-15-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2017-02, 6-21-2017; Ord.
2018-03, 6-20-2018; Ord. 2019-03, 6-19-2019; Ord. 2020-02, 6-17-2020; Ord.
2021-06, 6-16-2021; Ord. 2022-06, 6-15-2022; Ord. 2023-06, 6-21-2023)
1-6-2: BOND REQUIREMENTS 1 :
   A.   Bond Required: Before taking the oath of office and entering on the
duties of their respective office, the following named city officials shall
each give a bond with good and sufficient securities, payable to the city,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of their office and the
payment of all monies received by such officers according to law and the
ordinances of the city, in the following amounts:
 
Mayor                 $10,000.00  
Council members       10,000.00   
City treasurer        50,000.00   
City recorder         50,000.00   
Chief of police       10,000.00  but only if employee of city
Justice of the peace  10,000.00   
 
(1991 Code § 2.08.020, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Treasurer's Bond: The city treasurer's bond shall be superseded by any
rule, regulation or directive of the state money management council when such
rule, regulation or directive is binding on the city.
   C.   Premium Paid By City: The premium charged by any corporate surety for
any bond required in this section shall be paid by the city.
   D.   Blanket Bond: The bond required in this section may be a blanket bond.
(1991 Code § 2.08.020, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 1-6A-4 of this chapter.
ARTICLE A. CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-6A-2: Term Of Office
1-6A-3: Salary
1-6A-4: Bond Required
1-6A-5: Vacancy In Office
1-6A-6: Maintain Office; Hours Required
1-6A-7: Powers And Duties
1-6A-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is created in and for the city the office of city manager. The city
manager shall be appointed by the mayor and the city council from among the
qualified applicants for said position. The city manager shall be chosen upon
the basis of training and/or experience, satisfactory to the mayor and city
council, in business administration, budget preparation, accounting background,
personnel administration, familiarity with the city's needs and circumstances,
and other criteria as may be determined to be relevant within the discretion of
the mayor and city council. (1991 Code § 2.12.020, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
1-6A-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
The city manager shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and governing body,
except that the governing body may, by contract duly executed, employ the
manager for a term not to exceed three (3) years, in which event the city
manager shall be subject to dismissal only for cause as specified in the
contract. The term of any contract may be renewed at any time as therein
provided. Except as otherwise provided by contract, any person serving as
manager of the city under this article may be removed, with or without cause,
by a majority vote of the governing body. (1991 Code § 2.12.030, as amended;
amd. 2009 Code)
1-6A-3: SALARY 1 :
The salary of the city manager shall be set in the same manner as provided for
other elective and statutory officers by the statutes of the state. (1991 Code
§ 2.12.040, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-6-1 of this chapter for salary of city manager.
1-6A-4: BOND REQUIRED:
Before taking office, the city manager shall file with the city recorder a
surety bond, conditioned upon honest and faithful performance of his duties, in
the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). The premiums of the bond shall be
paid by the city. (1991 Code § 2.12.050, as amended)
1-6A-5: VACANCY IN OFFICE:
In the event of a vacancy in the position of city manager, the vacancy shall be
filled by the mayor and governing body as originally specified in section
1-6A-1 of this article, and subject to the qualifications herein set forth.
They may also appoint an acting city manager to exercise the powers and perform
the duties of the city manager during his temporary absence or disability and
until the city manager shall return or his disability shall cease. (1991 Code §
2.12.060, as amended)
1-6A-6: MAINTAIN OFFICE; HOURS REQUIRED:
The city manager shall maintain such office in the city building as is provided
and shall spend such time in the performance of his duties as is necessary, but
not less than forty (40) hours per week, or as may be required from time to
time by the governing body. (1991 Code § 2.12.070, as amended)
1-6A-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The city manager shall at all times be under the control and
supervision of the governing body, and shall administer all affairs of the city
according to policies adopted by the governing body. The mayor and governing
body or city council shall retain all rights, obligations, duties and
responsibilities not specifically delegated in this article to the city manager
and also those as to which delegation to a city manager is prohibited by law.
The city manager has full discretion in administering the affairs of the city
within and according to the parameters of policy adopted by the governing body.
Whenever a question of the interpretation or operation of city policy arises,
the city manager shall consult with the mayor, who has full executive authority
to interpret, apply and implement city policy, subject to review, further
direction and revision of policy by the governing body at its meetings.
Whenever the mayor has been called upon to interpret, apply or implement city
policy, the governing body shall be notified thereof at or prior to the next
meeting of the governing body, in order that the governing body may consider
city policy in light of its executive interpretation, application,
implementation and administration.
   B.   Specific Duties: Subject to the limits, standards and procedures of
subsection C of this section, and without further limiting the authority of the
city manager, the following duties and the authority to perform them are
delegated to the city manager: (1991 Code § 2.12.080, as amended)
      1.   Appointed Officers: To recommend to the mayor and governing body the
appointment or removal of the chief of police and fire chief, city recorder,
city treasurer and other appointed officers, employees and agents, whose
employment or appointment may be terminated only by the governing body
according to the express provision of an applicable ordinance; provided,
however, the city manager may also act as the city recorder upon appointment to
such office by the mayor as provided by law. Otherwise, the city manager shall
have authority to appoint and remove all other city employees. The manager may
further delegate this authority by authorizing the head of a department or
office to appoint, suspend or remove subordinates in such department or office.
In the case of police officers or city firefighters, the mayor and city manager
shall review and approve, or disapprove, the recommendation of the chief of
police or fire chief, respectively; (1991 Code § 2.12.080, as amended; amd.
2009 Code)
      2.   Other Obligations: To have and exercise all powers and duties
assigned to him by ordinance or resolution. The city manager shall carry out
the policies and programs established by the governing body;
      3.   Supervision: To provide direct supervision to and have direct
responsibility over the offices of city recorder, city treasurer, and the
departments of public safety, inspection and public works. The city manager
shall manage, direct or otherwise supervise the construction, reconstruction,
maintenance or repair of public works and related facilities, and activities,
such as, but not limited to, the following: parks, playgrounds, cemetery,
waterworks, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, drains, ditches, culverts, streets,
watercourses, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, alleys, lanes, bridges, garbage
collection and city buildings;
      4.   Property: To keep or cause to be kept a current inventory showing
all real and personal property of the city and its location. The city manager
shall be responsible for the care and custody of all such property, including
equipment, buildings, parks, and all other city property which is not by law
assigned to some other officer or body for care and control;
      5.   Buildings And Safety: To oversee the issuing of building permits,
the inspection of buildings, plumbing, electrical, mechanical and other
installations, and to supervise and oversee all functions of the public safety
department;
      6.   Purchasing And Claims: To act as purchasing agent for the city and
to approve all claims before presentation to the governing body for payment, to
see that all goods purchased by and for the city are received as per contract.
To enforce and carry out all provisions of the ordinances of the city relating
to purchasing;
      7.   Council Meetings: To attend all meetings of the governing body with
the right to take part in the discussion but not to vote, and to recommend to
the governing body adoption of such measures as the city manager may deem
necessary or expedient;
      8.   Budget And Finance: To act as the budget officer for the city, to
perform or cause to be performed all of the duties of such office as set forth
in the Utah uniform municipal fiscal procedures act, to prepare the budget
annually and submit it to the city council, together with a message describing
the important features, and to administer the budget after its adoption, to
exercise budgetary control over city departments and services, to preaudit
claims and disbursements of city funds, to keep the governing body advised as
to the financial condition and needs of the city, and to make such
recommendations as may be desirable;
      9.   Contracts: To review all proposed contracts to which the city may be
a party and to make recommendations concerning contracts to the governing body.
To see that the terms of any contract to which the city is party are fully
performed by all parties thereto;
      10.   Policy Proposals: To propose plans and programs concerning the
development, operation and needs of the city and submit such plans to the
governing body to be approved and developed as policy;
      11.   Management Controls: To set performance standards and exercise
managerial control to ensure that the city government is functioning in the
most efficient and effective manner;
      12.   Organization: To recommend creation and organization of all
necessary departments, divisions, bureaus and offices necessary for the
government of the city to the governing body for its approval prior to
implementation;
      13.   Records: To examine the books, records and official papers of the
city departments and offices;
      14.   Enforcement: To faithfully execute and enforce all applicable laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations, and see that all franchises, leases,
permits, contracts, licenses and privileges granted by the city are observed;
      15.   Emergency Notification: To notify the mayor immediately upon the
city manager's cognizance of any emergency situation existing in any department
or office under his supervision, where the emergency threatens to interrupt
normal city operations. The city manager will then inform members of the
governing body of the emergency as soon as is reasonably possible;
      16.   Other Duties: To perform such other duties as may be required of
him by this code, state law or by ordinances or resolutions of the governing
body;
      17.   Ethics: To adhere to the city management code of ethics as
published by the International City Management Association, and applicable law.
   C.   Limitation On Authority To Disburse Funds: The city manager shall not
disburse funds of the city nor obligate the city to disburse funds, if the
amount of such disbursement exceeds five hundred dollars ($500.00), unless the
approval of the governing body is first obtained for such disbursement or
obligation. If the disbursement or obligation is contained within the intent of
a duly adopted budget, or if such disbursement is made pursuant to a contract
authorized by the governing body, or if a disbursement is made in payment of
salary at an approved rate, then the disbursement or obligation shall be deemed
approved for purposes of this subsection. An obligation made in violation of
this subsection shall be null and void. (1991 Code § 2.12.080, as amended)
ARTICLE B. DEPUTY RECORDER
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-6B-2: Term Of Office
1-6B-3: Salary
1-6B-4: Duties
1-6B-5: Office Hours
1-6B-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is created in and for the city the office of deputy recorder. The deputy
recorder shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the
city council. (1991 Code § 2.14.010, as amended)
1-6B-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
The deputy recorder shall serve at the pleasure of the governing body. The
deputy recorder may be removed with or without cause by a majority vote of the
governing body. (1991 Code § 2.14.020, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
1-6B-3: SALARY:
The salary of the deputy recorder shall be set in the same manner as provided
for other statutory officers by the statutes of the state. (1991 Code §
2.14.030)
1-6B-4: DUTIES:
The deputy recorder shall be under the supervision of the city manager, and
shall perform the following duties:
   A.   Attend all city council meetings;
   B.   Take official minutes of all city council meetings;
   C.   Type all minutes of city council meetings for their approval at the
next regular city council meeting. (1991 Code § 2.14.040, as amended)
1-6B-5: OFFICE HOURS:
The deputy recorder shall not be required to maintain any certain office hours,
other than attending all city council meetings. (1991 Code § 2.14.050, as
amended)
ARTICLE C. BUILDING OFFICIAL
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Office Created
1-6C-2: Powers And Duties
1-6C-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is created the position of building official, who shall also be known as
the building inspector. (1991 Code § 2.16.010, as amended)
1-6C-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Stop Order: The building inspector shall have the power to order all
work stopped on construction, alteration or repairs of buildings in the city
when such work is being done in violation of any provisions of any ordinance
relating thereto, or in violation of the subdivision or zoning ordinance. Work
shall not be resumed after the issuance of such order, except on the written
permission of the inspector; provided, that if the stop order is an oral one,
it shall be followed by a written stop order within one hour. Such written stop
order may be served by any peace officer or other authorized person.
   B.   Entry Powers: The building inspector shall have the power to enter into
any building or the premises where the work of altering, repairing or
constructing any building or structure is going on, for the purpose of making
inspections at any reasonable hour, pursuant to any of the provisions of titles
4 and 9 of this code.
   C.   Additional Duties Of Building Inspector: The building official
(inspector) shall, in addition to all other duties imposed on him by the city:
      1.   Enforce the provisions of the adopted building code;
      2.   Inspect all buildings, structures, ditches, signs, fences and
objects to determine their safety and effect on the persons who are within the
city;
      3.   Until such time as a plumbing inspector is appointed or designated,
the building inspector shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of the
adopted plumbing code;
      4.   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding 1 . If a proposed building site is in a location
that has a flood hazard, any proposed new construction or substantial
improvement (including prefabricated and mobile homes) must:
         a.   Be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
         b.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
         c.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage;
      5.   Review subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments to
assure that:
         a.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
         b.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage; and
         c.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
      6.   Require new or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary
sewage systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters,
and require on site waste disposal systems to be located so as to avoid
impairment of them or contamination from them during flooding. (1991 Code §
2.16.020, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 9, chapter 3 of this code.
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Conduct
1-7-2: Nomination Of Candidates
1-7-1: CONDUCT:
Election for mayor and council members shall be conducted according to the
municipal election section of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-404(1) and (2).
(1991 Code § 2.08.040, as amended)
1-7-2: NOMINATION OF CANDIDATES:
This section provides for the candidates for mayor and council members to be
nominated at a primary election if required. A primary election will be held
only when the number of candidates filing for an office exceeds twice the
number to be elected. The candidates nominated at the primary election, plus
candidates that were not required to run in the primary, are to be placed on
the November ballot. (1991 Code § 2.08.040, as amended)
CHAPTER 8
ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Request For Hearing
1-8-2: Form Of Request
1-8-3: Procedure For Hearing
1-8-4: Not Additional Remedy
1-8-1: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
Unless otherwise specifically provided by this code, any ordinance of the city,
or any code adopted by reference, a hearing before the governing body may be
requested by any person:
   A.   Who is denied or refused a permit or license by any officer, agent or
employee of the city;
   B.   Whose permit or license is revoked, restricted, qualified or limited
from that for which it was first issued. (1991 Code § 1.08.010, as amended)
1-8-2: FORM OF REQUEST:
The request for hearing must be made in writing to the mayor or city recorder/
clerk, and made within thirty (30) days following the date of notice denying,
refusing, revoking, qualifying or restricting the license or permit is mailed
by the city to the applicant or license holder at his address as it appears on
the application or license. (1991 Code § 1.08.020, as amended)
1-8-3: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING:
   A.   Notice Of Hearing: Following receipt of a request for hearing, the
governing body shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the time and
place the hearing is to be held.
   B.   Presentation Of Evidence: At the hearing, the aggrieved party shall
have the right to hear and examine any witnesses the city may produce to
support its decision and to present his own evidence in support of his
contention.
   C.   Decision: The governing body shall, within ten (10) days following the
conclusion of the hearing, in writing, inform the person who requested the
hearing of the decision of the governing body. (1991 Code § 1.08.030, as
amended)
1-8-4: NOT ADDITIONAL REMEDY:
This chapter shall not be construed so as to afford any aggrieved party more
than one hearing before the governing body, nor shall the hearing provided in
this chapter apply to any criminal complaint or proceeding. (1991 Code §
1.08.040, as amended)
CHAPTER 9
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKINGS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Policy Considerations
1-9-2: Constitutional Taking Defined
1-9-3: Guidelines Advisory
1-9-4: Review Of Decision
1-9-5: Reviewing Guidelines
1-9-6: Results Of Review
1-9-1: POLICY CONSIDERATIONS:
There is an underlying policy in the city strongly favoring the careful
consideration of matters involving constitutional taking claims, in fairness to
the owner of private property bringing the claim and in view of the uncertainty
and expense involved in defending lawsuits alleging such issues. At the same
time, the legitimate role of government in lawfully regulating real property
must be preserved and the public's right to require the dedication or exaction
of property consistent with the constitution. Consistent with this policy, it
is desired that a procedure be established for the review of actions that may
involve the issue of a constitutional taking. These provisions are to assist
governments in considering decisions that may involve constitutional takings.
It is intended that a procedure for such a review be provided, as well as
guidelines for such considerations. This chapter is further intended and shall
be construed to objectively and fairly review claims for citizens that a
specific government action should require payment of just compensation, yet
preserve the ability of the city to lawfully regulate real property and fulfill
its other duties and functions. (1991 Code § 1.09.010, as amended)
1-9-2: CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING DEFINED:
   A.   "Constitutional taking" means action by the city involving the physical
taking or exaction of private real property that might require compensation to
a private real property owner because of:
      1.   The fifth or fourteenth amendment to the constitution of the United
States;
      2.   Article I, section 22, of the Utah constitution;
      3.   Any court ruling governing the physical taking or exaction of
private real property by a government entity.
   B.   Actions by the city involving the physical taking or exaction of
private real property is not a constitutional taking if the physical taking or
exaction:
      1.   Bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest, and
      2.   Is roughly proportionate and reasonably related, on an
individualized property basis, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the
proposed development on the legitimate government interest. (1991 Code §
1.09.020, as amended)
1-9-3: GUIDELINES ADVISORY:
The guidelines adopted and decisions rendered pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter are advisory, and shall not be construed to expand or limit the
scope of city's liability for a constitutional taking. The reviewing body or
person shall not be required to make any determination under this chapter
except pursuant to section
1-9-4 of this chapter. (1991 Code § 1.09.030, as amended)
1-9-4: REVIEW OF DECISION:
Any owner of private real property who claims there has been a constitutional
taking of their private real property shall request a review of a final
decision of any officer, employee, board, commission or council. The following
are specific procedures established for such a review:
   A.   Final Determination: The person requesting a review must have obtained
a final and authoritative determination, internally, within the city, relative
to the decision from which they are requesting review.
   B.   Request For Review: Within thirty (30) days from the date of the final
decision that gave rise to the concern that a constitutional taking has
occurred, the person requesting the review shall file in writing, in the office
of the city recorder, a request for review of that decision. A copy shall also
be filed with the city attorney.
   C.   Time For Review Set: The city council, or an individual, or body
designated by the city council, shall immediately set a time to review the
decision that gave rise to the constitutional takings claim.
   D.   Information Required To Be Submitted: In addition to the written
request for review, the applicant must submit, prior to the date of the review,
the following:
      1.   Name of the applicant requesting review;
      2.   Name and business address of current owner of the property, form of
ownership, whether sole proprietorship, for profit or not for profit
corporation, partnership, joint venture or other, and if owned by a
corporation, partnership or joint venture, name and address of all principal
shareholders or partners;
      3.   A detailed description of the grounds for the claim that there has
been a constitutional taking;
      4.   A detailed description of the property taken;
      5.   Evidence and documentation as to the value of the property taken,
including the date and cost at the date the property was acquired. This should
include any evidence of the value of that same property before and after the
alleged constitutional taking, the name of the party from whom purchased,
including the relationship, if any, between the person requesting a review and
the party from whom the property was acquired;
      6.   Nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected, such as,
but not limited to, fee simple ownership, leasehold interest;
      7.   Terms (including sale price) of any previous purchase or sale of a
full or partial interest in the property in the three (3) years prior to the
date of application;
      8.   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose, including
financing, offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the three (3)
years prior to the date of the application;
      9.   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for the
previous three (3) years;
      10.   All information concerning current mortgages or other loans secured
by the property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current interest
rate, remaining loan balance and term of the loan and other significant
provisions, including, but not limited to, right of purchasers to assume the
loan;
      11.   All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous three (3) years;
      12.   All studies commissioned by the petitioner or agents of the
petitioner within the previous three (3) years concerning feasibility of
development or utilization of the property;
      13.   For income producing property, itemized income and expense
statements from the property for the previous three (3) years;
      14.   Information from a title policy or other source showing all
recorded liens or encumbrances affecting the property; and
      15.   The city council or their designee may request additional
information reasonably necessary, in their opinion, to arrive at a conclusion
concerning whether there has been a constitutional taking.
   E.   Complete Application Required: An application shall not be deemed to be
complete or submitted until the reviewing body/official certifies to the
applicant, that all the materials and information required above, have been
received by the city. The reviewing body/official shall promptly notify the
applicant of any incomplete application.
   F.   Hearing: The city council or an individual or body designated by them,
shall hear all the evidence related to and submitted by the applicant, or any
other interested party.
   G.   Final Decision: A final decision on the review shall be rendered within
fourteen (14) days from the date the complete application for review has been
received by the city recorder. The decision of the city council or designee
regarding the results of the review shall be given in writing to the applicant
and the officer, employee, board, commission or council that rendered the final
decision that gave rise to the constitutional takings claim.
   H.   Failure To Hear And Decide: If the city council fails to hear and
decide the review within fourteen (14) days, the decision appealed from shall
be presumed to be approved. (1991 Code § 1.09.040, as amended)
1-9-5: REVIEWING GUIDELINES:
The city council shall review the facts and information presented by the
applicant to determine whether or not the action by the city constitutes a
"constitutional taking", as defined in section
1-9-2 of this chapter. In doing so, they shall consider:
   A.   Whether the physical taking or exaction of the private real property
bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest;
   B.   Whether a legitimate governmental interest exists for the action taken
by the city;
   C.   Is the property and exaction taken, roughly proportionate and
reasonably related, on an individual property basis, both in nature and extent,
to the impact caused by the activities that are the subject of the decision
being reviewed. (1991 Code § 1.09.050, as amended)
1-9-6: RESULTS OF REVIEW:
After completing the review, the reviewing person/body shall make a
determination regarding the above issues and where determined to be necessary
and appropriate, shall make a recommendation to the officer, employee, board,
commission or council that made the decision that gave rise to the
constitutional taking claim. (1991 Code § 1.09.060, as amended)
CHAPTER 10
CAMPAIGN FINANCE DISCLOSURE
SECTION:
1-10-1: Compliance Required
1-10-2: Definitions
1-10-3: Public Information
1-10-4: Penalty
1-10-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
All candidates for elective municipal office shall comply with the campaign
finance disclosure requirements set forth in section
10-3-208, Utah Code Annotated. (1991 Code § 2.10.010, as amended; amd. 2009
Code)
1-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purpose of this chapter, the following terms are defined as follows:
CANDIDATE: Any person who files a declaration of candidacy for an elective
office of the city or is nominated by a committee, party or petition, or
received contributions, or made expenditures, or consents to another person
receiving contributions, or making expenditures with a view to bringing about
such person's nomination or election to such office, or causes on his behalf
any written material or advertisement to be printed, published, broadcast,
distributed or disseminated which indicates an intention to seek such office.
CONTRIBUTION: Monetary and nonmonetary contributions such as in-kind
contributions and contributions of tangible things, but shall not include
personal services provided without compensation by individuals volunteering
their time on behalf of a candidate.
ELECTION: Both primary and final elections.
EXPENDITURE: A purchase, payment distribution, loan, advance, deposit, or gift
of money or anything of value made for the purpose of influencing the
nomination or election of any candidate. (1991 Code § 2.10.020, as amended)
1-10-3: PUBLIC INFORMATION:
The statements required by this chapter shall be public documents and shall be
available for public inspection and copying during all regular city business
hours, no later than one business day after the statement is filed. (1991 Code
§ 2.10.060; amd. 2009 Code)
1-10-4: PENALTY:
Any candidate who fails to comply with this chapter is guilty of an infraction,
and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 2.10.070; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 11
CLASSIFICATION OF RECORDS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Purpose
1-11-1: PURPOSE:
In accordance with the provisions of the Utah government records access and
management act, Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-101 et seq., as amended, it
is the intention of the city, from time to time, to classify certain records as
private, controlled or protected. (1991 Code § 2.56.010, as amended; amd. 2009
Code)
CHAPTER 12
ANNEXATION POLICY PLAN
SECTION:
1-12-1: Map Referenced
1-12-2: General Criteria
1-12-3: Specific Criteria
1-12-4: Plans, Time Frame For And Nature Of Development
1-12-5: Plans And Time Frame For Extension Of Municipal Services
1-12-6: Financing Extension Of Municipal Services
1-12-7: Tax Consequences
1-12-8: Impact And Interests Of Affected Entities
1-12-9: Statutory Criteria
1-12-10: Application
1-12-11: Amendment
1-12-12: Adoption
1-12-1: MAP REFERENCED:
Attached to ordinance 2002-13 and by this reference made a part hereof is a map
of the unincorporated territory into which the city anticipates or favors
expansion of its boundaries at some point in time. Such map also gives notice
to neighboring municipalities the intent of the city. (1991 Code § 2.52.010, as
amended; amd. 2009 Code)
1-12-2: GENERAL CRITERIA:
Where feasible and practicable, and subject to other policy and criteria
considerations, areas projected for municipal expansion are drawn along the
boundary line of county boundaries, or other taxing jurisdictions. As part of
its ongoing effort to plan and prepare for responsible growth, the city has
identified territory adjacent to its present city boundaries that could at some
time in the future be a part of the city. The areas proposed for future
annexation are located in the county. Areas to be annexed must fall within the
areas designated for future annexation in the annexation policy plan of the
city and shown on the expansion area map as provided in section
1-12-1 of this chapter. Even though property proposed for annexation is located
within the annexation expansion area, there is no guarantee that the city will
approve the annexation request. (1991 Code § 2.52.020, as amended)
   A.   Areas to be annexed must be contiguous to the corporate limits of the
city at the time of submission of annexation request. Annexed properties will
be zoned according to the general plan 1 , unless otherwise designated in the
annexation ordinance. (1991 Code § 2.52.020, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Areas to be annexed cannot be located within the corporate limits of
another incorporated city or be part of a previously filed annexation petition
that has not been denied, accepted or approved.
   C.   The city also favors:
      1.   Eliminating and/or not creating islands and peninsulas of
unincorporated territory.
      2.   Consolidating overlapping functions of government.
      3.   Promoting efficient delivery of services.
      4.   Encouraging the equitable distribution of community resources and
obligations.
      5.   Giving consideration to the tax consequences to property owners
within the area to be annexed, as well as the property owners within the
municipality.
   D.   The city does not favor the annexation of areas for which it does not
have the capability nor the intention to provide municipal services, with the
exception of open space that may not require said services. (1991 Code §
2.52.020, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-3-6 of this code.
1-12-3: SPECIFIC CRITERIA:
The city is a low density residential community desiring to maintain and
continue a rural atmosphere and environment and agricultural pursuits. At the
same time, the city recognizes the need to foster a limited business base in
the community to provide needed services and additional tax resources. It is
contemplated that manufacturing and business development will be encouraged in
those areas determined by the general plan. The city seeks to concentrate urban
growth in marginal agricultural property and not in prime agricultural
property. The city further recognizes the need to foster, in limited ares, more
intensive urban development to facilitate low cost housing and to help maintain
a broad based and well integrated community. The city favors maintenance of
agricultural uses and pursuits and open spaces, and regards its community
identity and separation an important aspect of future growth and planning.
(1991 Code § 2.52.030, as amended)
1-12-4: PLANS, TIME FRAME FOR AND NATURE OF DEVELOPMENT:
The city seeks reasonable, controlled and well planned growth consistent with
the city general plan, sewer lagoon study of February 2001, and the water
master plan of March 2002. In addition, the city seeks growth in those areas
where topography and proximity to already developed areas of the city
facilitate efficient use of city services. The city does not favor growth
exclusive for subdivisions and does not favor growth which results in cul-de-
sacs. The city seeks a smooth and efficient flow of traffic and seeks to adhere
to a master road plan contained in the general plan. (1991 Code § 2.52.040, as
amended)
1-12-5: PLANS AND TIME FRAME FOR EXTENSION OF MUNICIPAL SERVICES:
The city does not generally anticipate extending roads, water or sewer lines to
newly annexed areas, this being the duty of the developer or annexor, though
other considerations of annexation may alter this policy. It is contemplated
that police, garbage removal and snow removal services would be immediately
available in any newly annexed area. The city does not own and operate other
public utilities such as electric utility, and does not anticipate doing so in
the near future. (1991 Code § 2.52.050, as amended)
1-12-6: FINANCING EXTENSION OF MUNICIPAL SERVICES:
Typically, road, sewer and water extensions will be financed and contemplated
by the parties whose property is annexed and requires such extension in
accordance with other established codes and agreements. (1991 Code § 2.52.060,
as amended)
1-12-7: TAX CONSEQUENCES:
It is well known that property taxes from residential properties generally do
not cover the full costs of providing services to those residences. This means
that, if allowed to develop strictly in residential use, the annexation and
development of these properties will result in an increase in the city's burden
of paying for the services required by development. It is also understood that
the value of open space and cultivated ground treasured by the residents of the
city may pose a similar challenge. While such open space and cultivated ground
may not require additional city services, the city is limited in the amount of
tax revenue that can be collected from these properties. To help defray some of
the real costs associated with the city's desire to preserve open space, it is
expected that some of the proposed expansion area may be appropriately
developed as a mix of commercial and residential use. (1991 Code § 2.52.070, as
amended)
1-12-8: IMPACT AND INTERESTS OF AFFECTED ENTITIES:
The impact and interests of affected entities was considered in the approval
process of approving this chapter, as required by and provided for in the
statutes of the state. (1991 Code § 2.52.080, as amended)
1-12-9: STATUTORY CRITERIA:
All criteria, conditions and stipulations imposed for annexation of properties
to municipalities in the state must be met and are incorporated herein by
reference. (1991 Code § 2.52.090, as amended)
1-12-10: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be used and applied as required by law and as deemed
appropriate by the planning commission and/or the city council. (1991 Code §
2.52.100, as amended)
1-12-11: AMENDMENT:
This annexation policy plan may be amended as provided by state statute. (1991
Code § 2.52.110, as amended)
1-12-12: ADOPTION:
This annexation policy plan was adopted subsequent to the public hearings as
required by Utah Code Annotated section
10-2-401.5, as amended, with input from individuals and affected entities
incorporated into this plan. (1991 Code § 2.52.120, as amended)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Established; Compensation
2-1-2: Term Of Office
2-1-3: Organization
2-1-4: Powers And Duties
2-1-1: ESTABLISHED; COMPENSATION:
There is created a planning commission, composed of five (5) commissioners,
plus one alternate commissioner. Members shall be appointed by the mayor, with
the advice and consent of the city council. The commissioners shall serve
without compensation, except for reasonable expenses incurred in performing the
assigned duties. Elected city officials cannot be appointed to the planning
commission. (1991 Code § 2.32.010, as amended)
2-1-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of service shall be five (5) years, except that the term of service
for the first planning commission shall be such that the term of one
commissioner shall expire each year during the first five (5) years. One member
shall be appointed on or before the second Thursday in February of each year.
Any commissioner may be removed with or without cause by the city council upon
written charges, if for cause, and after public hearing, if such public hearing
is requested by the commissioner. Vacancies shall be promptly filled by
appointment for the unexpired term of any commissioner whose term becomes
vacant. (1991 Code § 2.32.020, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Chairperson; Rules And Regulations:
      1.   The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, shall,
on or before the second Thursday in February of each year, appoint one of the
commissioners to serve as chairperson.
      2.   The commissioners may adopt rules and regulations for the
transaction of business and conducting meetings of the commission.
      3.   The commission shall select from the commission an acting
chairperson to serve in the absence of the chairperson.
   B.   Public Records; Reports: Reports of official acts and recommendations
of the planning commission shall be public and a report shall be made to the
governing body by any member of the planning commission, the city council
member over the planning commission, the mayor or the city manager. The city
manager shall be responsible for the taking and keeping of the minutes of the
proceedings of all meetings, and preserving said minutes. (1991 Code §
2.32.030, as amended)
   C.   Meetings: The planning commission shall meet on the second and fourth
Wednesday of each month at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and at such other times as
the planning commission may determine. (Ord. 2004-05, 6-16-2004)
   D.   Quorum: Three (3) members of the planning commission shall constitute a
quorum.
   E.   Alternate Member: The alternate commissioner will attend all meetings
and participate equally with all other members of the commission, except in
voting. The alternate commissioner will vote only whenever there are less than
five (5) regular commissioners in attendance. (1991 Code § 2.32.030, as
amended)
   F.   Fees: All fees associated with functions of the planning commission
shall be set by resolution or ordinance of the city council. (1991 Code §
2.32.030, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
2-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The planning commission shall have all the powers and duties
explicitly or impliedly given planning commissions by the laws of the state and
this chapter.
   B.   Majority: The voting quorum shall be based on the total number of
commissioners, excluding the alternate when not voting. Therefore, all voting
actions must be no less than three (3) to constitute a majority. (1991 Code §
2.32.040, as amended)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
2-2-1: Created
2-2-2: Membership
2-2-3: Organization
2-2-4: Meetings
2-2-5: Appeals
2-2-6: Variances
2-2-7: Special Permits
2-2-8: Interpretation
2-2-9: Exemptions For Public Convenience And Welfare
2-2-10: Judicial Review
2-2-1: CREATED:
In order to carry out the provisions of state law relating to planning and
zoning, there is created a board of adjustment, which shall act as the
municipal appeal authority. (1991 Code § 2.44.010, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
2-2-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Number; Prohibited Appointments: The board of adjustment shall consist
of five (5) members. Elected city officials or members of the planning
commission cannot be appointed to the board of adjustment.
   B.   Appointment, Vacancies, Removal: Members of the board of adjustment
shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city
council. Any member may be removed for cause by the city council upon written
charges and after public hearing, if such public hearing is requested by the
member. Vacancies shall be promptly filled by appointment for the unexpired
term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
   C.   Term Of Office: The term of service on the board of adjustment shall be
five (5) years, except that the term of service for the first board of
adjustment shall be such that the term of one member shall expire each year
during the first five (5) years. One member shall be appointed on or before the
second Thursday in February of each year. (1991 Code § 2.44.020, as amended)
2-2-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Chairperson: The mayor, with the advise and consent of the city
council, shall, on or before the second Thursday in February of each year,
appoint one of the board members to serve as chairperson.
   B.   Adopt Rules And Regulations: The board members may adopt rules and
regulations for the transaction of business and conducting meetings of the
board.
   C.   Acting Chairperson: The board shall select from the board an acting
chairperson to serve in the absence of the chairperson. (1991 Code § 2.44.030,
as amended)
2-2-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Open And Public Meetings: Meetings of the board shall be held at the
call of the chairperson and at such other times as the board may determine. All
meetings of the board shall be open to the public and shall convene only when a
quorum of at least three (3) members are present.
   B.   Witnesses, Oaths: The chairperson of the board or, in his absence, the
acting chairperson may compel the attendance of witnesses and administer oaths.
   C.   Public Records; Reports: Reports of official acts of the board of
adjustment shall be public and a report shall be made to the governing body by
the city manager. The city manager shall be responsible for the taking and
keeping of the minutes of the proceedings of all meetings, and preserving said
minutes.
   D.   Fees: All fees associated with functions of the board of adjustment
shall be set by resolution or ordinance of the city council. (1991 Code §
2.44.040, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
2-2-5: APPEALS:
   A.   Authorized: The board of adjustment shall hear appeals from any person
or from any officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected by any
decision of an administrative officer applying the municipal land use
ordinances, wherein it is alleged that there has been any error in any order,
requirement, or decision or determination made by such officer in the
enforcement of the land use ordinance, except for an appeal of a decision under
subsection
10-15-2G of this code. (1991 Code § 2.44.050, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Filing Appeal: Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the board by filing with the officer from whom the
appeal is taken and with the board of adjustment a notice of appeal specifying
the grounds thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith
transmit to the board of adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from is taken.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time
for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof as well as due notice
to the parties in interest, and shall decide the same within a reasonable time.
Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   D.   Decision: Upon appeal and after due consideration of evidence, the
board may reverse, affirm or modify an order or decision of the administrative
officer as necessary to correct any error and bring the order or decision into
conformity with the provisions of the land use ordinances. To this end, the
board shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
   E.   Vote Necessary: The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board
shall be necessary for a decision.
   F.   Stay Of Proceedings; Exception: An appeal stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the
appeal is taken certifies to the board of adjustment after the appeal shall
have been filed with him that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a
stay would in his opinion cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by restraining order which
may be granted by the board of adjustment or by the district court on
application and notice and due cause shown. (1991 Code § 2.44.050, as amended)
2-2-6: VARIANCES:
   A.   Application: The applicant for a variance shall submit an application
in writing to the city recorder. Such application shall describe the variance
requested, and present all applicable information regarding measurements and
uses and, in particular, shall state how each of the requirements for a
variance is met.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time
for hearing of the application, give public notice thereof, as well as due
notice to the parties in interest, and shall hold the hearing and render a
decision within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any party may appear in
person or by agent or by attorney.
   C.   Conditions And Limitations: After due consideration of applicable facts
and circumstances, the board of adjustment may grant a variance from the terms
of a land use ordinance, provided all of the following conditions and
limitations are met:
      1.   The variance will not be contrary to the public interest;
      2.   Owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions
of a land use ordinance will result in unnecessary hardships and difficulties;
      3.   The spirit of a land use ordinance will be observed;
      4.   Substantial justice shall be done;
      5.   The variance will not substantially affect the comprehensive plan of
zoning in the city;
      6.   Special circumstances are attached to the property covered by the
application which do not generally apply to the other property in the same
district;
      7.   Because of special circumstances, property covered by the
application is deprived of privileges possessed by other properties in the same
district, and that the granting of the variance is essential to the enjoyment
of a substantial property right possessed by other property in the same
district. Variances shall not be used to circumvent the provisions of a land
use ordinance, or to grant benefits and advantages generally denied by a land
use ordinance.
   D.   Vote Necessary: The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board
shall be necessary for approval of a variance. (1991 Code § 2.44.060, as
amended)
2-2-7: SPECIAL PERMITS:
   A.   Extension Of Uses: Where a zone boundary line divides a lot in single
ownership at the time of the passage of the zoning ordinance, the board may
permit a use authorized on either portion of such lot to extend not more than
one hundred fifty feet (150') into the other portion of the lot.
   B.   Building Permitted Where No Frontage On Public Street: The board may
permit the building of a dwelling upon a lot which does not have a frontage on
a street, provided:
      1.   The owner of the lot also owns or has a permanent easement for a
right of way at least twelve feet (12') wide connecting the lot to a street;
      2.   Area and distance between buildings and adjacent property lines meet
area and distance requirements for the zone in which the lot is located;
      3.   A storm drain is installed or determined by the city engineer to be
unnecessary to protect adjoining property from additional water runoff due to
the buildings and associated hard surfacing under ordinary storm conditions.
   C.   Parking Reduction 1 : The board may reduce the amount of off street
parking required, where acquisition of land for such use would cause
exceptional hardship. (1991 Code § 2.44.070, as amended)
   D.   Lot Division: In all residential zones, except the R-1 zone, where an
existing parcel of land is at least one and one-half (11/2) times as wide and
one and one-half (11/2) times as large in area, as required for a lot in the
zone, the board may permit the subdivision of the parcel into two (2) equal
lots. (Ord. 2006-03, 6-7-2006)
   E.   Nonconformities 2 : The board may permit the enlargement of or addition
to or relocation on a lot of a nonconforming or noncomplying building or
structure, or a building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use,
provided: (1991 Code § 2.44.070, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
      1.   After the enlargement or addition, the percentage of total lot
occupied by buildings will not exceed sixty (60), and the percentage of rear
yard occupied by accessory buildings in a residential zone will not exceed
twenty five (25);
      2.   If a nonconforming or noncomplying building already occupies
required yard space required by the zone in which nonconformance is located,
the distance between the building and the property line bordering such required
yard space shall not be decreased;
      3.   Any associated expansion of a nonconforming use shall not involve
any increase in intrusion of adjacent or surrounding properties with
objectionable smoke, dust, noise, odors or fumes, or of heat, light or
electromagnetic energy intensities above the existing ambient levels.
   F.   Temporary Buildings: The board may permit a temporary building or
trailer for commerce or business or residential use, which building is
incidental to a permitted use, such permit to be issued for a period of not
more than one year. An additional one year extension may be permitted after
reapplication to the board.
   G.   Vote Necessary: A concurring vote of three (3) members of the board
shall be necessary for approval of a special permit. (1991 Code § 2.44.070, as
amended)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 13 of this code for parking regulations.
2 2. See title 10, chapter 12 of this code.
2-2-8: INTERPRETATION 1 :
The board shall interpret the location of zone boundaries only when uncertainty
exists and the rules for boundary location, as delineated in title 10 of this
code, do not clarify their exact location. (1991 Code § 2.44.080, as amended)
 
Notes
1 3. See also subsection
  10-4-4C of this code.
2-2-9: EXEMPTIONS FOR PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND WELFARE:
   A.   Application: An application for a public convenience and welfare
exemption shall be submitted to the board of adjustment by the applicant. The
application shall show the proposed location, description and use of the
building or structure proposed for exemption from the zoning ordinance, and in
particular shall explain why the building or structure is considered reasonably
necessary for the convenience and welfare of the public.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: The board of adjustment shall receive the
application, set a reasonable time for a hearing, give public notice as well as
due notice to the parties in interest, conduct the hearing, and render a
decision within a reasonable period of time.
   C.   Grant Of Exemption: The board may grant an exemption from the zoning
ordinance to any building or structure for which satisfactory proof shall be
presented to the board that such building or structure is reasonably necessary
for the convenience or welfare of the public.
   D.   Vote Necessary: A concurring vote of three (3) members of the board
shall be necessary for a decision. (1991 Code § 2.44.090, as amended)
2-2-10: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
The city or any person aggrieved by any decision of the board of adjustment may
have and maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom in any court of
competent jurisdiction; provided, petition for such relief is presented to the
court within thirty (30) days after the filing of such decision in the office
of the city recorder. (1991 Code § 2.44.100, as amended)
CHAPTER 3
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Established
2-3-2: Membership
2-3-3: Meetings
2-3-4: Duties And Responsibilities
2-3-1: ESTABLISHED:
A city historic preservation commission is established with membership, term of
office, duties and responsibilities as listed in this chapter. (1991 Code §
2.36.010, as amended)
2-3-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Number; Term; Appointment: The commission shall consist of five (5)
members with a demonstrated interest, competence or knowledge in historic
preservation, appointed for terms of four (4) years. The first appointment will
be such that three (3) commissioners will be appointed for four (4) years and
two (2) commissioners appointed for two (2) years. Reappointment to successive
terms is allowed. The term of office shall begin on or before the first Monday
of February. Vacancies shall be promptly filled in the same manner as the
original appointment for the remainder of an unexpired term. Names of
commissioners and terms of office will be established by resolution.
   B.   Experience: To the extent available in the community, two (2)
commission members shall be professionals, as defined by national park service
regulations, from the disciplines of history and architecture, or architectural
history.
   C.   Chairperson: The commission will select a chairperson from among its
members to direct the business meetings and affairs of the commission. Other
officers may be selected as the commission deems necessary. (1991 Code §
2.36.020, as amended)
2-3-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Open And Public Meetings: The commission will meet at least twice each
year and conduct business in accordance with the open public meeting laws of
the state. This includes public notification of meeting place, time and agenda
items.
   B.   Minutes: Written minutes of each commission meeting will be prepared
and made available for public inspection. (1991 Code § 2.36.030, as amended)
2-3-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The duties and responsibilities of the commission are:
   A.   Survey And Inventory Community Historic Resources: The historic
preservation commission shall conduct or cause to be conducted a survey of the
historic, architectural and archeological resources within the community. The
survey shall be compatible with the state inventory of historic and
archeological sites. Survey and inventory documents shall be maintained and
open to the public. The survey will be updated at least every ten (10) years.
   B.   Review Proposed Nominations To National Register Of Historic Places:
The commission shall review and comment to the state historic preservation
officer on all proposed national register nominations for properties within the
boundaries of the community. When the commission considers a national register
nomination which is normally evaluated by professionals in a specific
discipline and that discipline is not represented on the commission, the
commission will seek expertise in this area before rendering its decision.
   C.   Provide Advice And Information:
      1.   The commission shall act in an advisory role to other officials and
departments of local government regarding the identification and protection of
local historic and archeological resources.
      2.   The commission shall work toward the continuing education of
citizens regarding historic preservation and the community's history.
   D.   Recommendation And Enforcement Of Local Preservation Laws: The
commission will recommend to the city council the adoption of such laws and
ordinances that relate to preservation and protection of historic sites,
buildings and objects located within the city. The commission will be empowered
to enforce these laws and ordinances. (1991 Code § 2.36.040, as amended)
   E.   Enforcement Of State Historic Preservation Laws: The commission shall
support the enforcement of all state laws relating to historic preservation.
These include, but are not limited to: Utah Code Annotated section 17A-3-1301,
the historic district act; Utah Code Annotated section 9-8-301 et seq.,
protection of Utah antiquities; and Utah Code Annotated section 9-8-307
regarding notification to the division of state history of any known proposed
action which will destroy or affect a site, building or object owned by the
state of Utah included on or eligible for the state or national register. (1991
Code § 2.36.040, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF HEALTH
SECTION:
2-4-1: Designated
2-4-2: Health Director
2-4-3: Powers And Duties
2-4-4: Permit Required
2-4-5: Application For Permit
2-4-1: DESIGNATED:
The Bear River district health department is designated as the board of health
of the city. (1991 Code § 2.40.010, as amended)
2-4-2: HEALTH DIRECTOR:
   A.   Designated: The health director of the Bear River district health
department is designated as the health director of the city. (1991 Code §
2.40.050)
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The health director may appoint or designate any qualified person to
act as his assistant for the purpose of enforcing the ordinances of the city.
      2.   Subject to the terms and conditions of the contract between the Bear
River district health department, the health director shall:
         a.   Be the executive officer of the board of health;
         b.   Enforce all ordinances of the city and the state which relate to
the health and welfare of the residents of the city. (1991 Code § 2.40.060)
2-4-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Contract For Enforcement: The city may contract with the Bear River
district health department on such terms and conditions as the parties may
agree to enforce the provisions of this chapter and such other ordinances of
the city which authorize or require action or impose any duty on the board of
health.
   B.   Adopt Rules And Regulations: The board of health shall adopt such rules
and regulations as it shall deem necessary to govern its meetings and conduct.
   C.   Application Review: The board of health shall review and approve all
applications for permits to operate any business or engage in any construction
for which a permit is required from the board of health pursuant to any
ordinances or regulations of the city.
   D.   Recommendations To Mayor: The board of health shall recommend to the
mayor for promulgation by the governing body such health rules, regulations and
ordinances as it deems necessary for the health of the persons within the city.
(1991 Code § 2.40.020)
2-4-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in any of the following businesses or
activities without first obtaining a permit from the board of health:
   A.   Handling, selling, offering for sale, preparing or serving any food or
food products or beverages or water intended for human consumption;
   B.   Operating or permitting public access to any public swimming pool;
   C.   Commercially operating any public dump, garbage or refuse collection or
disposal facility, or cleaning out or installing any privy, cesspool or septic
tank;
   D.   Fumigating or eradicating pests, insects, vermin or any other
infestation from any building occupied or to be occupied by humans. (1991 Code
§ 2.40.030)
2-4-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Application To City Recorder: Applications for a permit from the board
of health shall be made in writing to the city recorder.
   B.   Referral And Recommendation: The application shall be referred by the
city recorder to the board of health for review and recommendation. The board
of health shall then forward the application with its recommendation to the
mayor for approval or disapproval by the governing body. (1991 Code § 2.40.040)
CHAPTER 5
PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
2-5-1: Membership; Appointments; Terms Of Office
2-5-2: Vacancies
2-5-3: Service Without Pay
2-5-4: Officers And Directors Of The Board
2-5-5: Authority Of The Board
2-5-6: Rules And Regulations
2-5-7: Budget
2-5-8: Meetings
2-5-9: Records To Be Kept; Annual Report
2-5-10: Disqualification
2-5-1: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENTS; TERMS OF OFFICE:
The Wellsville City parks and recreation advisory board (the "board") is hereby
authorized and shall consist of three (3) or more members appointed by the
mayor with the consent of the city council for terms of two (2) years. Initial
members of the board shall be appointed to stagger the initial terms of office
on the board as follows: one or more members to a one year term and one or more
members to a two (2) year term. Notwithstanding the automatic expiring of a
board member's term of office, a board member will continue to serve in office
until a successor is appointed. Board members may be appointed to successive
terms on the board. All board members shall serve full terms unless a member of
the board voluntarily resigns or is removed by the mayor and city council based
on disqualification under section
2-5-10 of this chapter or for malfeasance or nonfeasance of duty. Board members
shall hold no other elected or appointed office in the city nor be employees of
the city and must be residents of Wellsville City. (Ord. 2009-03, 5-20-2009)
2-5-2: VACANCIES:
Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of term shall be filled by
appointment by the mayor, with the consent of the city council, for the
unexpired term and shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments.
(Ord. 2009-03, 5-20-2009)
2-5-3: SERVICE WITHOUT PAY:
The members of the board shall serve without pay. The city council must
preauthorize reimbursement for expenses that will be incurred while performing
duties. (Ord. 2009-03, 5-20-2009)
2-5-4: OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OF THE BOARD:
The board shall elect its own chair, secretary, and any other officers deemed
necessary, to serve for a period of one year. (Ord. 2009-03, 5-20-2009)
2-5-5: AUTHORITY OF THE BOARD:
   A.   City staff shall be administratively responsible for implementing the
policies and programs recommended by the board, but only if approved by the
city council. All such policies, upon recommendation for approval by the board,
shall be referred to the city council for consideration. No policy or action
recommended by the board shall be final or effective, until approved by the
city council.
   B.   The board may initiate, provide, and recommend to the mayor and city
council, from time to time, plans for the acquisition, construction,
maintenance, equipping, operation, programming, management, financing, and
regulation of any public parks, parkways, playgrounds, play fields, and other
recreational programs and facilities owned by the city which would be a benefit
to residents. The parks and trails master plan will be used as a guide.
   C.   The board may cooperate with one or more municipalities, school
districts, and/or regional organizations for these purposes. Any agreement,
understanding or arrangement by the board which would or may have the effect of
being legally binding upon the city must first be approved by the city council.
   D.   The board shall have no jurisdiction or authority to enter into any
contract or to incur any obligation or expense which is binding upon the city.
   E.   On an annual basis the board shall evaluate the effectiveness of the
various recreation directors (see below) and provide the mayor and city council
with recommendations. Recommendations shall be for the mayor and city council
to consider replacement of individuals or to extend their assignments for
another year. In the case of a recommendation for replacement, the board shall
provide one or more names of replacement candidates for consideration. Board
members shall not directly or indirectly make promises of employment to
potential recreation directors. Recreation directors are currently authorized
for the following programs:
   Baseball
   Rodeo grounds
   Soccer
   Softball
(Ord. 2009-03, 5-20-2009)
2-5-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The board shall make and revise, when necessary, rules and regulations related
to its organization, subcommittees, if any, and procedures; provided, said
rules and regulations shall be consistent with the ordinances of the city, the
laws of the state of Utah and shall be approved by the city council. (Ord.
2009-03, 5-20-2009)
2-5-7: BUDGET:
The board shall work with the city council to review the proposed budget for
parks and recreation facilities and services for the ensuing year as prepared
by the city staff. Said budget to be submitted to and approved by the city
council. (Ord. 2009-03, 5-20-2009)
2-5-8: MEETINGS:
   A.   Notice of all meetings shall be subject to the Utah open and public
meetings act as regulated by 52-4, Utah state code annotated 1953, as amended.
   B.   Minutes of all meetings shall be kept as required by 10-3-603 of the
Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended. (Ord. 2009-03, 5-20-2009)
2-5-9: RECORDS TO BE KEPT; ANNUAL REPORT:
The board shall make an annual report which shall be printed in the annual
municipal report and/or other public forum acceptable to the mayor and city
council. (Ord. 2009-03, 5-20-2009)
2-5-10: DISQUALIFICATION:
The board may, by a majority vote, recommend removal of a member to the city
council by a majority vote of the board, for any reason, including:
   A.   Failure to attend more than twenty five percent (25%) of the board's
scheduled meetings during any twelve (12) month period without having been
excused in advance from attendance at board meetings by the chair of the board.
   B.   A member's office automatically becomes vacant if the member
establishes residence outside of the city, or lives outside of city boundaries
for a continuous period of more than sixty (60) days. (Ord. 2009-03, 5-20-2009)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Assessor And Collector
3-1-3: License Required
3-1-4: Application For License
3-1-5: Fee For License; Payment; Delinquency
3-1-6: Exemptions To License Fee
3-1-7: Fee Not To Constitute Undue Burden On Interstate Commerce
3-1-8: Certificate Of License
3-1-9: Display Required
3-1-10: Transferability
3-1-11: Branch Establishments
3-1-12: Joint License
3-1-13: Reciprocal Recognition Of Licenses
3-1-14: Revocation Or Denial Of License
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title:
BUSINESS: All activities engaged in within the city carried on for the purpose
of gain or economic profit, except that the acts of employees rendering service
to employers shall not be included in the term "business", unless otherwise
specifically provided.
EACH SEPARATE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate establishment or place of
operation, whether or not operating under the same name, within the city,
including a home or other place of lodging if the same is held out by
advertisements, listings or otherwise as the establishment or place of
operation of a person engaging in the business of selling tangible, personal
property at either retail or wholesale, or both, in the city.
EMPLOYEE: The operator, owner or manager of a place of business and any persons
employed by such person in the operation of said place of business in any
capacity and also any sales person, agent or independent contractor engaged in
the operation of the place of business in any capacity.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Means and includes, but is not limited to, the sale of
tangible personal property at retail or wholesale, the manufacturing of goods
or property and the rendering of personal services for others for a
consideration by persons engaged in any profession, trade, craft, business,
occupation or other calling, except the rendering of personal services by an
employee to his employer under any contract of personal employment.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate location maintained or operated by the
licensee within the city from which business activity is conducted or
transacted.
WHOLESALE: A sale of tangible personal property by wholesalers to retail
merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers for resale, and does not
include a sale by wholesalers or retailers to users or consumers not for
resale, except as otherwise specified.
WHOLESALER: A person doing a regularly organized wholesale or jobbing business
and selling to retail merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers, for the
purpose of resale. (1991 Code § 5.04.010, as amended)
3-1-2: LICENSE ASSESSOR AND COLLECTOR:
The city recorder is designated and appointed as ex officio assessor of license
fees for the city. Upon receipt of any application for a license, the city
recorder shall assess the amount due thereon and shall collect all license fees
based upon the rate established by ordinance or resolution of the city council.
He shall enforce all provisions of this title, and shall cause to be filed
complaints against all persons violating any of the provisions of this title.
(1991 Code § 5.04.030, as amended)
3-1-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   License Required; Penalty: It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to transact, engage in or carry on any
business, trade, profession or calling, or to operate a vending, pinball or
coin operated machine without first receiving the class or type of license
required by the city.
   B.   Appearance Required; Renewal: After receiving an application for a
business license, as per section
3-1-4 of this chapter, the applicant must appear before the city council for
approval of the initial business license. Thereafter, at the beginning of the
calendar year, the license will automatically be renewed unless there is a
change in the type of business being conducted, which would result in the
applicant being required to appear before the city council for approval. (1991
Code § 5.04.020, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Information Required: All applications for license shall include:
      1.   The name of the person desiring a license;
      2.   The kind of license desired, stating the business, calling, trade or
profession to be performed, practiced or carried on;
      3.   The class of license desired, if such licenses are divided into
classes;
      4.   The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is to be
carried on, giving the street number if the business, calling, trade or
profession is to be carried on in any building or enclosure having such number;
      5.   The period of time for which such license is desired to be issued.
   B.   Coin Operated Machines: In the event that the license application
relates to a coin operated machine or device, the application shall identify
the machine or device to which it applies and the location thereof. (1991 Code
§ 5.04.060, as amended)
3-1-5: FEE FOR LICENSE; PAYMENT; DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Fee Schedule: The business, location, trade, calling or profession of
every person engaged in a business in the city shall pay an annual license fee
in such amount as established by ordinance or resolution of the city council.
(1991 Code § 5.08.010, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Payment Dates: All license fees shall be due and payable as follows,
except as may be otherwise provided:
      1.   Annual fees shall be payable before each calendar year in advance.
The annual license shall date from January 1 of each year and shall expire on
December 31 of each year.
      2.   Annual fees shall be due on the first day of each calendar year and
shall become delinquent if not paid by February 1 each year.
      3.   Annual fees shall be payable for licenses issued after February 1
pursuant to application made for the time period indicated on the application.
The time period will be from one day to one year, or part thereof. Licenses
will expire on December 31 of the calendar year in which the license is issued.
Payment shall be made upon the date of application approval and before license
issue. (1991 Code § 5.04.040, as amended)
   C.   Penalty For Late Payment: If any license fee is not paid within thirty
(30) days of the due date, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of such
license fee shall be added to the original amount thereof. No license shall be
issued until all penalties legally assessed have been paid in full. (1991 Code
§ 5.04.060, as amended)
3-1-6: EXEMPTIONS TO LICENSE FEE:
   A.   No license fee shall be imposed under subsection
3-1-5A of this chapter on any person engaged in business for solely religious,
charitable, eleemosynary or other types of strictly nonprofit purpose which is
tax exempt in such activities under the laws of the United States and the
state; nor shall any license fee be imposed on any person engaged in a business
specifically exempted from municipal taxation and fees by the laws of the
United States or the state; nor shall any license fee be imposed upon any
person not maintaining a place of business within the city who has paid a like
or similar license tax or fee to some other taxing unit within the state and
which taxing unit exempts from its license tax or fee, by reciprocal agreement
or otherwise, businesses domiciled in the city and doing business in such
taxing unit.
   B.   The license assessor and collector may, with approval of the governing
body, enter into reciprocal agreements with the proper officials of other
taxing units, as may be deemed equitable and proper in effecting the exemption
provided for in subsection A of this section. (1991 Code § 5.04.140, as
amended)
3-1-7: FEE NOT TO CONSTITUTE UNDUE BURDEN ON INTERSTATE COMMERCE:
None of the license fees provided for by subsection
3-1-5A of this chapter shall be applied as to occasion an undue burden on
interstate commerce. In any case, where a license fee is believed by a licensee
or applicant for license to place an undue burden upon such commerce, he may
apply to the license assessor and collector for an adjustment of the fee so
that it shall not be discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair as to such
commerce. Such application may be made before, at or within six (6) months
after payment of the prescribed license fee. The applicant shall, by affidavit
and supporting testimony, show his method of business and the gross volume or
estimated gross volume of business and such other information as the license
assessor and collector may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if
any, of such undue burden on such commerce. The license assessor and collector
shall then conduct an investigation, comparing applicant's business with other
businesses of like nature and shall make findings of fact from which he shall
determine whether the fee fixed by subsection
3-1-5A of this chapter is discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair as to
applicant's business and shall recommend to the governing body a license fee
for the applicant in an amount that is nondiscriminatory, reasonable and fair,
and if the governing body is satisfied that such license is the amount that the
applicant should pay, it shall fix the license fee in such amount. If the
regular license fee has already been paid, the governing body shall order a
refund of the amount over and above the fee fixed by the governing body. In
fixing the fee to be charged, the license assessor and collector shall have the
power to base the fee upon a percentage of gross sales, or employees, or may
use any other method which will assure that the fee assessed shall be uniform
with that assessed on businesses of like nature. (1991 Code § 5.04.150, as
amended; amd. 2009 Code)
3-1-8: CERTIFICATE OF LICENSE:
All certificates of license shall be signed by the mayor, attested by the city
recorder, and shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name of the person to whom such certificate has been issued;
   B.   The amount paid;
   C.   The type of license and the class of such license if licenses are
divided into classes;
   D.   The term of the license with the commencing date and the date of its
expiration;
   E.   The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is to be
conducted. (1991 Code § 5.04.070, as amended)
3-1-9: DISPLAY REQUIRED:
   A.   Requirements: Every certificate of license issued under this title
shall be posted by the licensee in a conspicuous place upon the wall of the
building, room or office of the place of business so that the same may be
easily seen. When such certificate of license has expired, it shall be removed
by the licensee from such place in which it has been posted, and no certificate
of license which is not in force and effect shall be permitted to remain posted
upon the wall or any part of any room within the place of business. If the
licensee's business is such that a license cannot be displayed due to the
transient or mobile nature of the business, then the licensee shall carry the
license on his person ready to be shown on request by an authorized officer
during all such time or times while the licensee is engaged in or pursuing the
business for which a license is granted.
   B.   Coin Operated Machines: In the event the license is for a coin operated
machine or device, the certificate shall be attached or displayed in the
immediate vicinity of the machine for which it has been issued. (1991 Code §
5.04.080, as amended)
3-1-10: TRANSFERABILITY:
No license granted or issued under any ordinance of the city shall be assigned
or transferred to any other person. It shall not be deemed to authorize any
person other than therein named to do business or to authorize any other
business, calling, trade or profession than is therein named unless by
permission of the governing body. (1991 Code § 5.04.090, as amended)
3-1-11: BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS:
A separate license must be obtained for each separate place of business in the
city and each license shall authorize the licensee to engage only in the
business licensed thereby at the location or in the manner designated in such
license; provided, that warehouses and distributing places used in connection
with or incident to a business licensed under this title shall not be deemed to
be separate places of business or branch establishments. (1991 Code § 5.04.110,
as amended)
3-1-12: JOINT LICENSE:
Whenever any person is engaged in two (2) or more businesses at the same
location within the city, such person shall not be required to obtain separate
licenses for conducting each of such businesses, but shall be issued one
license which shall specify on its face all such businesses. The license fee to
be paid shall be computed at the highest license fee applicable to any of the
businesses being conducted at such location. The sale of beer or any other
product or service requiring an additional license shall be subject to such
additional licensing requirement. Where two (2) or more persons conduct
separate businesses at the same location, each such person shall obtain a
license for such business and pay the required license fee for such business.
(1991 Code § 5.04.120, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
3-1-13: RECIPROCAL RECOGNITION OF LICENSES:
   A.   No license shall be required for operation of any vehicle or equipment
in the city when:
      1.   Such vehicle is merely passing through the city;
      2.   Such vehicle is used exclusively in intercity or interstate
commerce.
   B.   No license shall be required by this title of any person whose only
business activity in the city is the mere delivery in the city of property sold
by him at a regular place of business maintained by him outside the city,
where:
      1.   Such person's business is at the time of such delivery licensed by
the state or county in which such place of business is situated; and
      2.   The authority licensing such business grants to licensees of the
city making deliveries within its jurisdiction the same privileges, upon
substantially the same terms, as are granted by this section; and
      3.   Neither the property delivered nor any of the facilities by which it
was manufactured, produced or processed are subject to inspection by authority
of the city for compliance with health or sanitary standards prescribed by the
city; and
      4.   The truck or other conveyance by which such delivery is made
prominently displays at all times a license plate or symbol issued by said
licensing authority to evidence such business license. Such plate or symbol
shall identify the licensing authority by which it is issued, shall indicate
that it evidences a license issued thereby, and shall specify the year or term
for which it is effective.
   C.   The city recorder shall, at the request of any person, certify a copy
of this section to any municipality or county of the state to which a copy has
not previously been certified. (1991 Code § 5.04.130, as amended)
3-1-14: REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Conditions: Any license issued pursuant to the provisions of this title
or of any ordinance of the city may be revoked and any application denied by
the governing body because of:
      1.   The failure of the licensee or applicant to comply with the
conditions and requirements of this code or any ordinance of the city;
      2.   Unlawful activities conducted or permitted on the premises where the
business is conducted.
   B.   Notice Required: Prior to the revocation of a license or denial of an
application to renew business license, the licensee or applicant shall be given
a notice which shall state in substance that the governing body intends to
revoke the business license or deny the application to renew, together with the
reason or reasons therefor, at a regular or special meeting of the governing
body (which shall be at least 10 days and not more than 30 days from the date
notice is sent) and that the licensee or applicant has a right to appear, to be
represented by counsel, to hear the evidence against him, to cross examine
witnesses and to present evidence as to why the license should not be revoked
or the application denied.
   C.   Nonapplicable: The preceding subsection shall not apply to applications
for licenses for businesses which have not previously been licensed by the
city, and such applicants need only be informed that their application has been
denied. (1991 Code § 5.04.100, as amended)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
ARTICLE A. BEER SALES
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Definitions
3-2A-2: Types Of Retail Licenses
3-2A-3: License Required
3-2A-4: Application For License
3-2A-5: Fee For License
3-2A-6: Qualifications Of Licensee
3-2A-7: Referral To Chief Of Police
3-2A-8: Bond Required
3-2A-9: Department Of Health Permit
3-2A-10: Transferability
3-2A-11: Renewal Of License
3-2A-12: Purchase Of Beer For Resale
3-2A-13: Operational Restrictions
3-2A-14: Sunday Sales Prohibited (Rep. by Ord. 2011-01, 3-2-2011)
3-2A-15: Inspections Authorized
3-2A-16: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings specified in
the Utah alcoholic beverage control act, unless a different meaning is clearly
evident. (1991 Code § 5.12.020, as amended)
3-2A-2: TYPES OF RETAIL LICENSES:
   A.   Specified: Retail licenses issued hereunder shall be of the following
two (2) kinds and shall carry the following privileges and be known as:
      1.   Class A (consumption off premises beer license); and
      2.   Class B (consumption on premises beer license).
   B.   Class A: A class A license (consumption off premises beer license)
shall entitle the licensee to sell beer on the licensed premises in the
original containers for consumption off the licensed premises in accordance
with the Utah alcoholic beverage control act and the ordinances of the city.
   C.   Class B: A class B license (consumption on premises beer license) shall
entitle the licensee to sell beer in the original containers or on draft on the
licensed premises for consumption on the licensed premises; or sell beer on the
licensed premises in sealed containers for consumption off premises in
accordance with the Utah alcoholic beverage control act. Total sales from beer
are not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the business's gross sales. (1991 Code
§ 5.12.030, as amended)
3-2A-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   License Required; Penalty: It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to engage in the business of selling beer at
retail, in bottles, cans or draft, without first having procured a license
therefor from the governing body and paid the license fee required by this
article.
   B.   Sales After Revocation Prohibited: It is a class B misdemeanor, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to sell beer after the revocation of the
license issued pursuant to this article. (1991 Code § 5.12.010, as amended;
amd. 2009 Code)
   C.   Separate License; Transferability; Compliance: A separate license shall
be required for each place of sale and the license shall at all times be
conspicuously displayed in the place to which it shall refer or for which it
shall be issued. All licensees shall comply with the Utah alcoholic beverage
control act and the regulations of the Utah alcoholic beverage control
commission. (1991 Code § 5.12.010, as amended)
3-2A-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Requirements: All applications for licenses authorized by this article
shall be verified and shall be filed with the city recorder. The application
must state the applicant's name in full and that he understands and has read
and complied with the requirements and possesses the qualifications specified
in the Utah alcoholic beverage control act and this article. If the applicant
is a copartnership, the names and addresses of all partners; if a limited
liability company, the names and addresses of all members and managers; and if
a corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and directors, must be
stated.
   B.   Subscribed By Applicant: The application must be subscribed by the
applicant who shall state under oath that the facts therein contained are true.
(1991 Code § 5.12.070, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
3-2A-5: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Specified: In addition to any other business license fee which any
person or place of business may be required to pay, there is imposed on the
business location of every person engaged in the sale or dispensing of beer the
following annual license fee:
 
Class A beer license  $100.00
Class B beer license  200.00
 
(1991 Code § 5.12.040, as amended)
   B.   Fee To Accompany Application: Applications provided for in this chapter
shall be accompanied by the fee provided in this chapter. The fee shall be
returned to the applicant if the application is denied. (1991 Code § 5.12.050,
as amended)
3-2A-6: QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE:
No license shall be granted to any retailer to sell beer within the city unless
he shall be of good moral character, over the age of twenty one (21) years, and
a citizen of the United States, or to anyone who has been convicted of a felony
or of any violation of any law of the state or provision of the ordinances of
the city relating to intoxicating liquors, or of keeping a gambling or
disorderly house, or who has pleaded guilty to or has forfeited his bail on a
charge of having committed a felony or of having violated any such law or
ordinance, or to any partnership, any member of which lacks any of the
qualifications herein set forth in this article, or to any corporation, of
which any stockholder, holding at least twenty percent (20%) of the total
issued and outstanding stock of the applicant corporation, director or officer
lacks any such qualifications. (1991 Code § 5.12.100, as amended; amd. 2009
Code)
3-2A-7: REFERRAL TO CHIEF OF POLICE:
All applications filed in accordance with the provisions of this article shall
be referred to the chief of police for inspection and report. The chief of
police shall, when possible within ten (10) days after receiving such
application, make report to the governing body of the general reputation and
character of the persons who habitually frequent such place; the nature and
kind of business conducted at such place by the applicant or by any other
person or by the applicant at any other place; whether the place is or has been
conducted in a lawful, quiet and orderly manner; the nature and kind of
entertainment, if any, at such place; whether gambling is or has been permitted
on the premises or by the applicant at any other place; and the proximity of
such premises to any school or church. The chief of police shall also add to
such report his recommendation as to whether or not the application should be
granted. (1991 Code § 5.12.080, as amended)
3-2A-8: BOND REQUIRED:
No license required by this article shall be granted by the governing body
until the applicant shall have filed with the city recorder a bond in the sum
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) payable to the city, and it shall be
similar to and subject to the same conditions and requirements as are stated in
Utah Code Annotated section 32A-10-205, as amended, and any such section
adopted in place of said section, except that the bond shall be made in favor
of the city. (1991 Code § 5.12.110, as amended)
3-2A-9: DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH PERMIT:
No license under this article shall be issued until the applicant therefor
shall have first procured from the department of health a permit which shall
show that the premises to be licensed is in a sanitary condition and that the
equipment used in the storage, distribution or sale of beer complies with all
the health regulations of the city and the state. (1991 Code § 5.12.120, as
amended; amd. 2009 Code)
3-2A-10: TRANSFERABILITY:
Licenses issued pursuant to this article shall not be transferable, and if
revoked by the governing body, the fee paid by the licensee to the city for the
license shall be forfeited to the city. (1991 Code § 5.12.130, as amended)
3-2A-11: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Time For Renewal: All applications for renewal licenses filed by the
holders of existing licenses shall be filed with the city recorder at least
thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of the then issued license. Any
person who fails to file such application within the time limit shall close his
licensed premises on the expiration date of the then issued license and shall
keep the premises closed for any and all business for the sale of beer until
the date his new license is issued by the governing body. (1991 Code §
5.12.090, as amended)
   B.   Revocation For Nonuse: If the holder of an existing beer license has
not used the beer license (by the selling of beer) for a period of six (6)
months or more, during any one calendar year, the beer license will
automatically be revoked. (1991 Code § 5.12.090, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
3-2A-12: PURCHASE OF BEER FOR RESALE:
It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any licensee to purchase or acquire, or to have or
possess for the purpose of sale or distribution, any beer, except that which he
shall have lawfully purchased from a brewer or wholesaler licensed under the
provisions of the Utah alcoholic beverage control act. (1991 Code § 5.12.060,
as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
3-2A-13: OPERATIONAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to sell beer at any public dance or to
any person intoxicated, or under the influence of any intoxicating beverage. It
is unlawful for any person to sell beer in any dance hall or theater.
   B.   No license shall be granted to sell beer in any dance hall, theater, or
within one hundred (100) yards of any church or within one hundred (100) yards
of any school.
   C.   It is unlawful to sell beer to any person under the age of twenty one
(21), or to permit the drinking of liquor on such premises. (1991 Code §
5.12.140, as amended)
   D.   (Rep. by Ord. 2016-03, 6-15-2016)
   E.   Licensed premises shall be kept brightly illuminated at all times while
they are occupied or open for business, and no booth or kind of stall shall be
maintained unless all tables, chairs and occupants are kept open to full view
from the main floor and the entrance of such licensed premises. It is unlawful
to advertise the sale of beer except under such regulations as are made by the
state alcoholic beverage control commission; provided, that a simple
designation of the fact that beer is sold under city license may be placed in
or upon the window or front of the licensed premises.
   F.   It is unlawful for any person to sell beer except in the manner for
which he has been so licensed pursuant to the provisions of this article.
   G.   It is unlawful to keep or maintain a "nuisance", as defined in this
code. (1991 Code § 5.12.140, as amended)
   H.   The total number of businesses licensed to sell beer in the city shall
be unlimited; however, each business is subject to all regulations of this
article, and to the regulations contained in Utah Code Annotated 32A-10-206.
(1991 Code § 5.12.140, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
3-2A-14: SUNDAY SALES PROHIBITED:
(Rep. by Ord. 2011-01, 3-2-2011)
3-2A-15: INSPECTIONS AUTHORIZED:
   A.   All licensed premises shall be subject to inspection by any officer,
agent or peace officer of the city, or the alcoholic beverage control
commission, or the state board of health, and every licensee shall, at the
request of the board of health, furnish to it samples of beer which he shall
have for sale.
   B.   Any license granted pursuant to this article may be revoked on a
finding by the governing body that the licensee has had ten (10) days' or more
notice from the board of health that the licensee is violating one or more
health ordinances, rules or regulations of the city or of the state division of
health and has failed to comply with such health ordinances, rules or
regulations.
   C.   The governing body may direct the chief of police to close down any
business licensed under this article where the board of health has determined
that continued operation of the business presents an imminent danger to the
health of the community or persons who may eat or drink at the business. (1991
Code § 5.12.160, as amended)
3-2A-16: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authority: The governing body may, after a hearing, revoke or suspend
any beer license on a finding by it that the licensee or his officers, agents
or employees have violated any provision of this article or any ordinance of
the city, whether now or hereafter enacted, which in any way relates to the
operation of the business or the safety of the public.
   B.   Hearing: A hearing may be requested by any person:
      1.   Who is denied or refused a beer license by any officer, agent or
employee of the city;
      2.   Whose beer license is revoked, restricted, qualified or limited from
that for which it was first issued.
   C.   Request For Hearing: The request for hearing must be made in writing to
the mayor or city recorder and made within thirty (30) days following the date
the notice denying, refusing, revoking, qualifying or restricting the beer
license is mailed by the city to the applicant or license holder at his address
as it appears on the application or license.
   D.   Notice Of Hearing: Following receipt of a request for hearing, the
governing body shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the time and
place the hearing is to be held. At the hearing, the aggrieved party shall have
the right to hear and examine any witnesses the city may produce to support its
decision and to present his own evidence in support of his contention. The
governing body shall, within ten (10) days following the conclusion of the
hearing, in writing, inform the person who requested the hearing of the
decision of the city council.
   E.   Limitation: This section shall not be construed so as to afford any
aggrieved party more than one hearing before the city council, nor shall the
hearing provided in this section apply to any criminal complaint or proceeding.
(1991 Code § 5.12.170, as amended)
ARTICLE B. RESTAURANT LIQUOR LICENSE CONSENTS
SECTION:
3-2B-1: Scope And Policy
3-2B-2: Definitions
3-2B-3: Application Of State Law
3-2B-4: Exercise Of Police Powers
3-2B-5: City Power To Grant Consent; Limitations
3-2B-6: Application And Renewal Requirements
3-2B-7: Condition For Issuance; No Debt To City
3-2B-8: Investigation And Inspection
3-2B-9: Bond Required
3-2B-10: Compliance Required; Failure To Renew
3-2B-11: Operational Restrictions
3-2B-12: Disqualification
3-2B-13: Revocation Or Suspension Of Consent
3-2B-1: SCOPE AND POLICY:
It has been and is the policy of the city to neither promote nor encourage the
sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages, but to license, tax and regulate
the sale or other distribution of alcoholic beverages and protect the public
interest, including the rights of citizens who do not wish to be involved with
alcoholic products. (1991 Code § 5.12.220, as amended)
3-2B-2: DEFINITIONS:
By reference, the city adopts all definitions contained in the Utah alcoholic
beverage control act, as amended from time to time, without further reference
and as supplemented by the more specific language as defined in the local
ordinances, including:
DABC: The Utah department of alcoholic beverage control.
LICENSE REVIEW AUTHORITIES: Any departmental or other state, county or city
authorities assigned by state and/or city ordinance to review each application
to ascertain code compliance, including, but not limited to: chief of the
police department or Cache County sheriff's office; chief of the fire
department; appropriate city officials and boards for compliance with all
applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations and for zoning, planning and
building code compliance; and health officials at city, county and/or state
levels, and their designees.
LOCAL CONSENT: Application approval by the city council based on applicant or
consentee compliance with all the terms and conditions under this article. Such
approval shall be communicated to the DABC for its license application/renewal
review purposes.
UABC: The state of Utah alcoholic beverage control act, Utah Code Annotated
title 32A, in its entirety, as amended from time to time. (1991 Code §
5.12.230, as amended)
3-2B-3: APPLICATION OF STATE LAW:
The Utah alcoholic beverage control act (UABC), Utah Code Annotated title 32A,
as amended from time to time and supplemented by these ordinances, shall apply
as required. It is the responsibility of any applicant for an alcoholic
beverage license, consent or permit to be in compliance with identified
conditions and requirements of state law and local ordinances prior to making
application with the city for any license consent or permit, as the specific
licensing designation may be. It is the obligation of each applicant and
licensee to stay in compliance with state law and local ordinances regardless
of changes to those laws and ordinances. (1991 Code § 5.12.200, as amended)
3-2B-4: EXERCISE OF POLICE POWERS:
This article is an exercise of the police powers of the city for the protection
of the public health, peace, safety, welfare and morals, and for the regulation
of the sale, service, storage, manufacture, distribution and consumption of
alcohol products. (1991 Code § 5.12.210, as amended)
3-2B-5: CITY POWER TO GRANT CONSENT; LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The city council may issue consent to a state restaurant liquor license
for businesses located in this city. Restaurant liquor license issuance shall
be determined by the DABC and shall entitle the consentee to only those
privileges they may have by virtue of having been issued a state liquor license
and shall thereafter exercise the privileges granted them under the UABC only
as they are in harmony with the state license issued and with this code. A
local consent to a state liquor license is required prior to the state's
original and annual consideration for licensure. Such local consent will not be
granted until the applicant has met all applicable city and state requirements.
(1991 Code § 5.12.260, as amended)
   B.   A person may not sell or offer for sale at a restaurant any alcoholic
beverage subject to liquor licensure unless a restaurant liquor license has
been issued by the state, following local consent. A separate consent is
required for each place of business and for each premises having different
ownership. A separate business license is required for each business name used.
Violation of this subsection is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 5.12.260, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   C.   The city council may prescribe by policy, as consistent with state law,
the general operational requirements of consentees relating to:
      1.   Physical facilities;
      2.   Other matters considered appropriate by the city council as it is
allowed by state law.
   D.   The city council may grant consent to a state restaurant liquor license
when the applicant is in compliance with all municipal codes. Licenses will be
issued based on state application approval and license availability. (1991 Code
§ 5.12.260, as amended)
3-2B-6: APPLICATION AND RENEWAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application; Information Required: Each person seeking a restaurant
liquor consent under this article shall file a written application with the
city recorder, on a form prescribed by the city council. It shall be
accompanied by:
      1.   A nonrefundable application fee in the amount of two hundred dollars
($200.00);
      2.   An initial annual consent fee in the amount of two hundred dollars
($200.00). The consent fee is not prorated and is in effect until the regular
consent renewal cycle following state licensure. The annual consent fee is
refundable if consent is not granted by the city or if the respective license
is not granted by the state within one year of local consent. The denied
applicant may submit a new application for city consent when conditions render
the situation approvable by state law and city code;
      3.   A statement of the purpose for which the applicant has applied for
the consent to a restaurant liquor license;
      4.   A signed consent form granting an irrevocable license to the city
permitting any authorized representative of the city or any law enforcement
officer unrestricted right to enter and inspect the premises; and
      5.   Any other documents and evidence the city may require by rule or
policy to allow complete evaluation of the application.
   B.   Signature And Verification: Each application shall be signed and
verified by oath or affirmation by the individual applicant or by an executive
officer or any person specifically authorized by the corporation, association
or other entity to sign the application, to which shall be attached written
evidence of such authority.
   C.   Proof Of Requirements Submitted: Prior to operating under the authority
of this article, each approved applicant must obtain and provide to the city
recorder, proof of:
      1.   Respective state licensure immediately upon state approval (not more
than 1 year from approval of the original local consent);
      2.   A surety compliance bond in the amount of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00);
      3.   Respective federal licensure immediately upon federal approval, if
applicable.
   D.   Term Of License; Renewal: All city restaurant liquor consents expire on
December 31 of each year, except for initial consents which shall expire on
December 31 of the year following the year of initial consent. Persons desiring
to renew the consent of the city shall submit a renewal fee and a completed
renewal application to the city recorder no later than November 30 of the year
the consent expires. Failure to meet the renewal requirements results in an
automatic forfeiture of the consent effective on the date the existing consent
expires. Renewal applications shall be in a form prescribed by the division and
shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Proof of a surety compliance bond in the amount of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00);
      2.   The consent renewal fee in the amount of two hundred dollars
($200.00); and
      3.   Copies of current state and federal licenses, as applicable.
   E.   Changes In Ownership, Officers Or Directors: If any restaurant liquor
consent holder does not immediately notify the city recorder of any change in
the ownership of the entity holding the consent, or in the case of a state
corporate owner of any change in the corporate officers or directors, the city
council may suspend or revoke that license. (1991 Code § 5.12.270, as amended)
3-2B-7: CONDITION FOR ISSUANCE; NO DEBT TO CITY:
No licenses, permits or consents provided for in this article shall be issued
to any applicant who is in arrears in the payment to the city of any commercial
license fees, or who is otherwise indebted to the city for past due amounts of
any kind owing to the city. (1991 Code § 5.12.250, as amended)
3-2B-8: INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTION:
Before any restaurant liquor consent may be granted by the city council, the
city council shall conduct investigations and hold on site inspections of the
premises by license review authorities as directed by the city council, for the
purpose of gathering information and making recommendations to the city council
to aid in the determination regarding licensure. Reviews and inspections
conducted by license review authorities include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Conformance with all appropriate building codes, as inspected and
verified by the building inspector;
   B.   Police and criminal background checks and clearances by the police
department or county sheriff's office;
   C.   Zoning and planning review by the city recorder, city manager and/or
planning commission, to address issues of locality, proximity, building design
and conformance with relative codes;
   D.   Fire department inspections of premises and determination of code
compliance;
   E.   Reviews and inspections by various health officers, including city and
state representatives making determinations regarding hazardous waste, solid
waste, environmental health, pretreatment requirements, and other health issues
which may be presented;
   F.   City review for state and federal identification of business, including
identification of the business ownership and entity structure, employer's
withholding account number, federal employer identification number, state sales
and use tax number, workers' compensation insurance carrier policy number and
expiration date, business name registration number, Utah corporate
identification number or limited liability company identification number (when
applicable), and proof of bonding with the city as the named insured;
   G.   City review for complete information on the application, including the
provision of:
      1.   Authorized signature on the application and written evidence of such
authority;
      2.   Appropriate application and license fees; and
      3.   Any other documentation considered necessary to render a
determination. (1991 Code § 5.12.280, as amended)
3-2B-9: BOND REQUIRED:
Restaurant liquor consentees shall acquire and maintain a surety compliance
bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) prior to operating
under the authority of the license. Evidence of such bonding shall be provided
to the city annually with each consent renewal submission. (1991 Code §
5.12.300, as amended)
3-2B-10: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; FAILURE TO RENEW:
   A.   Compliance; Failure: Each licensee shall comply with all applicable
federal, state and local laws. Failure to do so may result in the suspension or
revocation of the licensee's license, permit or consent.
   B.   Renewal Penalty Fee: If any person neglects, fails or refuses to pay
the amount assessed for the license renewal when it becomes due and payable, a
penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00) and ten percent (10%) of the amount of such
license renewal fee shall be added to the original amount due and the same
shall be collected as other license fees are collected and payment thereof is
enforced. (1991 Code § 5.12.240, as amended)
3-2B-11: OPERATIONAL RESTRICTIONS:
Each person or entity granted a restaurant liquor consent shall conform to all
the operational restrictions assigned by the UABC, including the following
conditions:
   A.   Transfers will not be granted from one person, partnership or
corporation to another person, partnership or corporation;
   B.   There shall be no transfer of a restaurant liquor consent from one
location to another without prior written approval of the city council.
Transfers may be granted for a change of location within the city by the
original consentee providing all qualifying conditions are met;
   C.   Each separate location must be separately licensed;
   D.   Each location with more than one type of operation, more than one
business name, or more than one specific ownership, must have a separate
license/consent for each and must submit applications for licensure, which
includes diagrams depicting the boundaries of the premises for each as well as
defining the distinctive operations. (1991 Code § 5.12.310, as amended)
3-2B-12: DISQUALIFICATION:
If any person to whom a consent has been issued under this article no longer
possesses the qualifications required by this article and Utah Code Annotated
title 32A for obtaining that consent, the city council may suspend or revoke
that consent. (1991 Code § 5.12.290, as amended)
3-2B-13: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF CONSENT:
   A.   Authority; Guidelines: The city council may, after notice and a
hearing, revoke, suspend or refuse to renew any consent issued under this
article. Such action shall be taken in accordance with the following
guidelines:
      1.   Such action may be taken by the city council on a finding by it that
the licensee/consentee ("licensee" hereafter) or one or more of his/its
partners, managers, officers, directors, shareholders, trustees, agents or
employees, or any one of them, has violated any of the provisions of this
article or any ordinance of the city or laws of the state, whether now or
hereafter enacted.
      2.   A consent shall be permanently revoked if the licensee knowingly
submits false or fraudulent material information on any application or document
filed with the city as a part of obtaining the consent.
      3.   The consent of a licensee shall be permanently revoked if the
licensee or any of his/its partners, managers, officers, directors,
shareholders, trustees, agents or employees is convicted of a felony, with the
exception that if said convicted person is an employee and said employee is
immediately terminated and not rehired by the licensee and the licensee was in
no way associated with the felony for which the employee was convicted, and
further provided the felony was in no way associated with the sale of liquor or
beer pursuant to the consent granted under this article, the consent may be
retained in good standing by the licensee.
      4.   Any consent issued shall be suspended, revoked or not renewed if the
applicant or licensee or any of his/its managers, officers, directors,
partners, shareholders, trustees, agents or employees fail to satisfactorily
maintain or shall cease to possess or meet all of the qualifications required
by the Utah alcoholic beverage control act, and the ordinances of the city,
specifically including this article. The same sanction may be imposed upon the
licensee should he attempt to assign, transfer or sell his license in violation
of this article.
      5.   Any consent issued pursuant to this article may be revoked,
suspended or not renewed if the licensee or any of his/its managers, officers,
directors, partners, shareholders, trustees, agents or employees shall be found
in violation of any law of the state or provisions of the ordinances of this
city relating to alcoholic beverages, drugs or keeping a gambling or disorderly
house, whether such violation is established by a conviction, a guilty plea or
the forfeiture of bail on such a charge and the same does not constitute a
felony.
      6.   Except where these provisions require the permanent revocation of a
consent, a licensee who is found to have violated any of the provisions of this
article may have his consent suspended for a minimum of six (6) months for a
first offense, for a minimum of twelve (12) months for a second offense, and
the consent shall be permanently revoked for a third offense. If a period of
five (5) years passes between the date of the first offense and the next
offense, then the succeeding offense shall be considered a first offense for
purposes of this article; provided, however, should any licensee accrue a total
of four (4) such violations, then his consent shall be permanently revoked. The
city council retains full discretion, however, to suspend a consent for a
longer period of time than the minimum stated in this section or to revoke a
consent permanently, even though not specifically required by the provisions of
this article, should the circumstances of any particular violation, in its
judgment, warrant such action.
   B.   Complaints; Investigation: The city recorder shall receive all
complaints of alleged violation of this article and shall refer the same to the
city council, which shall be responsible for investigating, through and with
the assistance of the police department or the county sheriff's office, all
allegations of a violation of or noncompliance with this article, the Utah
alcoholic beverage control act or any other condition imposed upon the licensee
by the consent of the city.
   C.   Notice Of Violation; Hearing: As deemed necessary, the city council may
cause a notice of violation and a hearing to be directed to the licensee, which
shall set forth the date and place of the hearing and the alleged violations,
and shall direct that the licensee, within ten (10) days after service of the
notice, appear before the city council at the named hearing. Failure of the
licensee to appear shall be deemed an admission by him of his commission of the
violations set forth in the notice, and the city council may proceed
immediately to take such action as allowed by this article. The city council
shall conduct any hearing and may accept any relevant and material evidence and
testimony. Such hearings shall be open to the public and shall be conducted
informally with technical rules of evidence not applying to the proceedings.
The licensee involved or any other person requesting such a hearing may be
present and cross examine witnesses and give evidence before the city council
and may be represented by an attorney if so desired. The city council shall
issue a decision either at the conclusion of the hearing or within fourteen
(14) days following the same, and all such decisions shall be in writing. The
notice required by this article shall be sufficient if served personally upon
the licensee or a partner, officer, director or legally constituted agent of
the licensee or if sent to one of the named individuals by registered or
certified mail not less than ten (10) days in advance of the hearing to the
principal place of business of the licensee.
   D.   Other Request For Hearing: A hearing may also be requested by any
person whose consent for a restaurant liquor license is revoked, not renewed,
restricted, qualified or limited from that for which it was first issued.
   E.   Request For Hearing: The request for hearing must be made in writing to
the mayor or city recorder and be made within ten (10) days following the date
notice refusing to renew, revoking, qualifying or restricting the consent is
mailed by the city to the consent holder at his address as it appears on the
application or consent.
   F.   Notice Of Hearing; Decision: Following receipt of a request for
hearing, the city council shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the
time and place the hearing is to be held. At the hearing, the aggrieved party
shall have the right to hear and examine any witnesses the municipality may
produce to support its decision and to present his own evidence in support of
his contention. The city council shall, within fourteen (14) days following the
conclusion of the hearing, in writing, inform the person who requested the
hearing of the decision of the city council.
   G.   Limitation: This article shall not be considered so as to afford any
aggrieved party more than one hearing before the city council, nor shall the
hearing provided in this section apply to any criminal complaint or proceeding.
(1991 Code § 5.12.320, as amended)
CHAPTER 3
TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Title
3-3A-2: Purpose
3-3A-3: Effective Date
3-3A-4: Tax On Retail Sales
3-3A-5: Excise Tax On Storage, Use And Other Consumption
3-3A-6: Retail Sales; Place Of Business
3-3A-7: Statutes Adopted By Reference; Exceptions
3-3A-8: Status Of City As Taxing Agency
3-3A-9: Annual License
3-3A-10: Exclusions From Purchase Price
3-3A-11: Violation; Penalties
3-3A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF WELLSVILLE
CITY. (1991 Code § 3.04.010, as amended)
3-3A-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The forty eighth session of the Utah legislature has authorized the
counties and municipalities of the state to enact sales and use tax ordinances
imposing a one percent (1%) tax.
   B.   It is the purpose of this article to conform the sales and use tax of
the city to the requirements of the sales and use tax act, Utah Code Annotated
title 59, chapter 12, as currently amended. (1991 Code § 3.04.020, as amended)
3-3A-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article became effective as of one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01)
A.M., January 1, 1990. (1991 Code § 3.04.030, as amended)
3-3A-4: TAX ON RETAIL SALES:
From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there shall be
collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal property,
services and meals made within the city at the rate of one percent (1%). (1991
Code § 3.04.040, as amended)
3-3A-5: EXCISE TAX ON STORAGE, USE AND OTHER CONSUMPTION:
An excise tax is imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in the city
of tangible personal property from any retailer on or after the operative date
hereof at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales price of the property.
(1991 Code § 3.04.050, as amended)
3-3A-6: RETAIL SALES; PLACE OF BUSINESS:
For the purpose of this article, all retail sales shall be presumed to have
been consummated at the place of business delivered by the retailer or his
agent to an out of state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out of state destination. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed by and adopted by
the state tax commission. "Public utilities", as defined by Utah Code Annotated
title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within any
county or municipality where public utility services are rendered, but the
place of sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such service allocable to
the city shall be as determined by the state tax commission pursuant to an
appropriate formula and other rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by it. (1991 Code § 3.040.060, as amended)
3-3A-7: STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; EXCEPTIONS:
Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of the sales and use tax act, all of the provisions of Utah
Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, and in force and effect on the
effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales taxes, excepting
sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, are adopted and made a part of this
article as though fully set forth herein. (1991 Code § 3.04.070, as amended)
3-3A-8: STATUS OF CITY AS TAXING AGENCY:
Wherever and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12,
the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the
city shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to
require substitution of the name of the city for the word "state" when that
word is used as part of the title of the state tax commission, or of the
constitution of the state of Utah, nor shall the name of the city be
substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the city or any
agency thereof, rather than by or against the state tax commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article. (1991 Code § 3.04.080, as amended)
3-3A-9: ANNUAL LICENSE:
If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code Annotated
section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by reason of
this article. (1991 Code § 3.04.090, as amended)
3-3A-10: EXCLUSIONS FROM PURCHASE PRICE:
There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by which the
tax is measured:
   A.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a retailer
or consumer,
   B.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use tax
has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality and
any county in the state, under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by that
county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act. (1991 Code
§ 3.04.100, as amended)
3-3A-11: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 3.04.110, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE B. MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Purpose
3-3B-2: Definitions
3-3B-3: Municipal Energy Sales And Use Tax
3-3B-4: Exemptions From Tax
3-3B-5: No Effect Upon Existing Franchises; Credit For Franchise Fees
3-3B-6: Tax Collection Contract With State Tax Commission
3-3B-7: Statutes Adopted By Reference
3-3B-8: No Additional License Or Reporting Required
3-3B-9: Effective Date
3-3B-1: PURPOSE:
It is the intent of the city to, and the city does, adopt a municipal energy
sales and use tax, pursuant to, and in conformance with, Utah Code Annotated
section
10-1-301 et seq., the municipal energy sales and use tax act. Any franchise/
license tax or fee currently levied by the city on cable television service
within the corporate limits of the city shall remain in full force and effect.
(1991 Code § 3.20.010, as amended)
3-3B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this article shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
CONSUMER: A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject to
the municipal energy sales and use tax.
CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   A fee:
      1.   Provided for in a franchise agreement; and
      2.   That is consideration for the franchise agreement; or
   B.   1.   A fee similar to subsection A1 of this definition; or
      2.   Any combination of subsections A1 and A2 of this definition.
DELIVERED VALUE:
   A.   The fair market value of the taxable energy delivered for sale or use
in the city and includes:
      1.   The value of the energy itself; and
      2.   Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges, service
charges, or other costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in
usable form to each class of customer in the city.
   B.   "Delivered value" does not include the amount of a tax paid under Utah
Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1 or part 2, or this article.
ENERGY SUPPLIER: A person supplying taxable energy, except for persons
supplying a de minimus amount of taxable energy, if such persons are excluded
by rule promulgated by the state tax commission.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise or an ordinance, contract or agreement
granting a franchise.
FRANCHISE TAX:
   A.   A franchise tax;
   B.   A tax similar to a franchise tax; or
   C.   Any combination of subsections A and B of this definition.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, this state,
any county, city, municipality, district, or other local government entity of
the state, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
SALE: Any transfer of title, exchange, or barter, conditional or otherwise, in
any manner, of taxable energy for a consideration. It includes:
   A.   Installment and credit sales;
   B.   Any closed transaction constituting a sale;
   C.   Any transaction under which right to acquire, use or consume taxable
energy is granted under a lease or contract and the transfer would be taxable
if an outright sale were made.
STORAGE: Any keeping or retention of taxable energy in Wellsville City for any
purpose, except sales in the regular course of business.
TAXABLE ENERGY: Gas and electricity.
USE:
   A.   The exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to the
ownership or the leasing of the taxable energy.
   B.   "Use" does not include the sale, display, demonstration or trial of the
taxable energy in the regular course of business and held for resale. (1991
Code § 3.20.020, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
3-3B-3: MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX:
There is levied, subject to the provisions of this article, a tax on every sale
or use of taxable energy made within the city equaling five percent (5%) of the
delivered value of the taxable energy to the consumer. This tax shall be known
as the municipal energy sales and use tax.
   A.   The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the taxable
energy to the consumer.
   B.   The tax shall be in addition to any sales or use tax on taxable energy
imposed by the city authorized by Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12,
part 2, the local sales and use tax act. (1991 Code § 3.20.030, as amended)
3-3B-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
   A.   No exemptions are granted from the municipal energy sales and use tax
except as expressly provided in Utah Code Annotated section
10-1-305(2)(b); notwithstanding an exemption granted by Utah Code Annotated
section 59-12-104.
   B.   The following are exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax,
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section
10-1-305(2)(b):
      1.   Sales and use of aviation fuel, motor fuel, and special fuels
subject to taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      2.   Sales and use of taxable energy that is exempt from taxation under
federal law, the United States constitution, or the Utah constitution;
      3.   Sales and use of taxable energy purchased or stored for resale;
      4.   Sales or use of taxable energy, to a person, if the primary use of
the taxable energy is for use in compounding or producing taxable energy or a
fuel subject to taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      5.   Taxable energy brought into the state by a nonresident for the
nonresident's own personal use or enjoyment while within the state, except
taxable energy purchased for use in the state by a nonresident living or
working in the state at the time of purchase;
      6.   The sale or use of taxable energy for any purpose other than as a
fuel or energy; and
      7.   The sale of taxable energy for use outside the boundaries of the
city.
   C.   The sale, storage, use, or other consumption of taxable energy is
exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax levied by this article,
provided:
      1.   The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a
municipal energy sales or use tax levied by another municipality within the
state authorized by Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 3; and
      2.   The city is paid the difference between the tax paid to the other
municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under this article, if the
tax due under this article exceeds the tax paid to the other municipality.
(1991 Code § 3.20.040, as amended)
3-3B-5: NO EFFECT UPON EXISTING FRANCHISES; CREDIT FOR FRANCHISE FEES:
   A.   This article shall not alter any existing franchise agreements between
the city and energy suppliers.
   B.   There is a credit against the tax due from any consumer in the amount
of a contractual franchise fee paid if:
      1.   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to the city
pursuant to a franchise agreement in effect on July 1, 1997;
      2.   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately itemized charge; and
      3.   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise. (1991 Code §
3.20.050, as amended)
3-3B-6: TAX COLLECTION CONTRACT WITH STATE TAX COMMISSION:
   A.   On or before the effective date hereof, the city shall contract with
the state tax commission to perform all functions incident to the
administration and collection of the municipal energy sales and use tax, in
accordance with this article. The mayor and city recorder are hereby authorized
to execute, deliver and enter into an agreement for state administration of
municipal energy sales and use tax and such other documents and agreements with
the state tax commission that may be necessary to the continued administration
and operation of the municipal energy sales and use tax ordinance enacted by
this article.
   B.   An energy supplier shall pay the municipal energy sales and use tax
revenues collected from consumers directly to the city monthly if:
      1.   The city is the energy supplier; or
      2.   a. The energy supplier estimates that the municipal energy sales and
use tax collected annually from its Utah consumers equals one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) or more; and
         b.   The energy supplier collects the municipal energy sales and use
tax.
   C.   An energy supplier paying the municipal energy sales and use tax
directly to the city may deduct any contractual franchise fees collected by the
energy supplier qualifying as a credit and remit the net tax, less any amount
the energy supplier retains as authorized by Utah Code Annotated section
10-1-307(4). (1991 Code § 3.20.060, as amended)
3-3B-7: STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
   A.   Except as herein provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 1, part 3, the
municipal energy sales and use tax act, as well as this article, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, as amended, and
in force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to
sales and use taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, and
excepting for the amount of the sales and use taxes levied therein, are hereby
adopted and made a part of this article as if fully set forth herein.
   B.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 1, as amended, the state of Utah is named or referred to as
the "taxing agency", the name of Wellsville City shall be substituted, insofar
as is necessary for the purposes of that part, as well as title 10, chapter 1,
part 3, as amended. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require
substitution of the name Wellsville City for the word "state" when that word is
used as part of the title of the state tax commission, or of the constitution
of Utah, nor shall the name of Wellsville City be substituted for that of the
state in any section when the result of such a substitution would require
action to be taken by or against the city or any agency thereof, rather than by
or against the state tax commission in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this article.
   C.   Any amendments made to Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part
1, as amended, which would be applicable to the city for the purposes of
carrying out this article are hereby incorporated herein by reference and shall
be effective upon the date that they are effective as a state statute. (1991
Code § 3.20.070, as amended)
3-3B-8: NO ADDITIONAL LICENSE OR REPORTING REQUIRED:
No additional license to collect or report the municipal energy sales and use
tax levied by this article is required, provided the energy supplier collecting
the tax has a license issued under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106. (1991
Code § 3.20.080, as amended)
3-3B-9: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article is effective June 30, 1999. The municipal energy sales and use tax
shall be levied and collected beginning one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01)
A.M., July 1, 1999. (1991 Code § 3.20.090, as amended)
ARTICLE C. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDERS TAX
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Definitions
3-3C-2: Levy Of Tax
3-3C-3: Rate
3-3C-4: Rate Limitation And Exemption
3-3C-5: Effective Date Of Tax Levy
3-3C-6: Changes In Rate Or Repeal Of Tax
3-3C-7: Interlocal Agreement For Collection
3-3C-8: Repealer
3-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
CITY: Wellsville City.
COMMISSION: The state tax commission.
CUSTOMER:
   A.   Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, means the person who
is obligated under a contract with a telecommunications provider to pay for
telecommunications service received under the contract.
   B.   For purposes of this article, "customer" means:
      1. The person who is obligated under a contract with a telecommunications
provider to pay for telecommunications service received under the contract; or
      2. If the end user is not the person described in subsection B1 of this
definition, the end user of telecommunications service.
   C.   "Customer" does not include a reseller:
      1. Of telecommunications service; or
      2. For mobile telecommunications service, of a serving carrier under an
agreement to serve the customer outside the telecommunications provider's
licensed service area.
END USER:
   A.   The person who uses a telecommunications service.
   B.   For purposes of telecommunications service provided to a person who is
not an individual, "end user" means the individual who uses the
telecommunications service on behalf of the person who is provided the
telecommunications service.
GROSS RECEIPTS ATTRIBUTED TO THE CITY: Those gross receipts from a transaction
for telecommunications services that is located within the city for the
purposes of sales and use taxes under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12,
the sales and use tax act, and determined in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-207.
GROSS RECEIPTS FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The revenue that a
telecommunications provider receives for telecommunications service rendered,
except for amounts collected or paid as:
   A.   A tax, fee or charge:
      1. Imposed by a governmental entity;
      2. Separately identified as a tax, fee or charge in the transaction with
the customer for the telecommunications service; and
      3. Imposed only on a telecommunications provider.
   B.   Sales and use taxes collected by the telecommunications provider from a
customer under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, the sales and use tax
act; or
   C.   Interest, a fee or a charge that is charged by a telecommunications
provider on a customer for failure to pay for telecommunications service when
payment is due.
MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: As defined in the mobile telecommunications
sourcing act, 4 United States Code section 124.
PLACE OF PRIMARY USE:
   A.   For telecommunications service other than mobile telecommunications
service, means the street address representative of where the customer's use of
the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which shall be:
      1. The residential street address of the customer; or
      2. The primary business street address of the customer; or
   B.   For mobile telecommunications service, is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 United States Code section 124.
SERVICE ADDRESS: Notwithstanding where a call is billed or paid, means:
   A.   If the location described in this definition is known, the location of
the telecommunications equipment:
      1. To which a call is charged; and
      2. From which the call originates or terminates;
   B.   If the location described in subsection A of this definition is not
known but the location described in this subsection B is known, the location of
the origination point of the signal of the telecommunications service first
identified by:
      1. The telecommunications system of the telecommunications provider; or
      2. If the system used to transport the signal is not a system of the
telecommunications provider, information received by the telecommunications
provider from its service provider; or
   C.   If the locations described in subsection A or B of this definition are
not known, the location of a customer's place of primary use.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER:
   A.   Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, means a person that:
      1. Owns, controls, operates or manages a telecommunications service; or
      2. Engages in an activity described in subsection A1 of this definition
for the shared use with or resale to any person of the telecommunications
service.
   B.   A person described in subsection A of this definition is a
"telecommunications provider" whether or not the public service commission of
Utah regulates:
      1. That person; or
      2. The telecommunications service that the person owns, controls,
operates or manages.
   C.   "Telecommunications provider" does not include an "aggregator", as
defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-8b-2.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE:
   A.   "Telephone service", as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-
102, other than mobile telecommunications service, that originates and
terminates within the boundaries of this state; and
   B.   "Mobile telecommunications service", as defined in Utah Code Annotated
section 59-12-102:
      1. That originates and terminates within the boundaries of one state; and
      2. Only to the extent permitted by the mobile telecommunications sourcing
act, 4 United States Code section 116 et seq. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-2-2008)
3-3C-2: LEVY OF TAX:
There is hereby levied a municipal telecommunications license tax on the gross
receipts from telecommunications service attributed to the city. (Ord. 2008-01,
1-2-2008)
3-3C-3: RATE:
The rate of the tax levy shall be three and five-tenths percent (3.5%) of the
telecommunication provider's gross receipts from telecommunications service
that are attributed to the city, subject to the following:
If the location of a transaction is determined to be other than the city, then
the rate imposed on the gross receipts for telecommunications services shall be
the lower of: a) the rate imposed by the taxing jurisdiction in which the
transaction is located; or b) the rate for nonmobile telecommunication services
shall be the rate imposed by the municipality in which the customer's service
address is located; or for mobile telecommunications service, the rate imposed
by the municipality of the customer's primary place of use. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-2-
2008)
3-3C-4: RATE LIMITATION AND EXEMPTION:
This rate of this levy shall not exceed three and five-tenths percent (3.5%) of
the telecommunication provider's gross receipts from telecommunication service
attributed to the city, unless a higher rate is approved by a majority vote of
the voters in the city that vote in:
   A.   A municipal general election;
   B.   A regular general election; or
   C.   A local special election. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-2-2008)
3-3C-5: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX LEVY:
This tax shall be levied beginning the earlier of July 1, 2007, or the first
day of any calendar quarter after a seventy five (75) day period beginning on
the date the state tax commission received notice pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated section
10-1-403 that the city has enacted this article. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-2-2008)
3-3C-6: CHANGES IN RATE OR REPEAL OF TAX:
This article is subject to the requirements of Utah Code Annotated section
10-1-403. If the tax rate is changed or the tax is repealed, then the
appropriate notice shall be given as provided in Utah Code Annotated section
10-1-403. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-2-2008)
3-3C-7: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR COLLECTION:
On or before the effective date hereof, the city shall enter into the uniform
interlocal agreement with the state tax commission, as described in Utah Code
Annotated section
10-1-405 for the collection, enforcement and administration of this municipal
telecommunications license tax. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-2-2008)
3-3C-8: REPEALER:
   A.   Any tax or fee previously enacted by the city under authority of Utah
Code Annotated section
10-1-203, or Utah Code Annotated title 11, chapter 26, local taxation of
utilities limitation, is hereby repealed.
   B.   Nothing in this article shall be interpreted to repeal any municipal
ordinance or fee which provides that the city may recover from a
telecommunications provider the management costs of the city caused by the
activities of the telecommunications provider in the rights of way of the city,
if the fee is imposed in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 72-7-102,
and is not related to the city's loss of use of a highway as a result of the
activities of the telecommunications provider in a right of way, or increased
deterioration of a highway as a result of the activities of the
telecommunications provider in a right of way; nor does this article limit the
city's right to charge fees or taxes on persons that are not subject to the
municipal telecommunications license tax under this article, locate
"telecommunications facilities", as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 72-
7-108, in this city. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-2-2008)
CHAPTER 4
JUNK DEALERS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Junk Dealer Defined
3-4-2: Fraudulent Practices
3-4-3: Record Of Sales And Purchases Required
3-4-4: Statement From Seller Required
3-4-5: Falsification Of Statement
3-4-6: Penalty
3-4-1: JUNK DEALER DEFINED:
For the purpose of this chapter "junk dealer" means all persons, firms or
corporations engaged in the business of purchasing or selling secondhand, or
castoff material of any kind, such as old iron, copper, brass, lead, zinc, tin,
steel, aluminum, and other metals, metallic cables, wires, ropes, cordage,
bottles, bagging, rags, rubber, paper, and other like materials. (1991 Code §
5.20.010, as amended)
3-4-2: FRAUDULENT PRACTICES:
Every person who wilfully makes or publishes any false statement, spreads any
false rumor, or employs any other false or fraudulent means or device, with
intent to affect the market price of any kind of property, is guilty of a class
B misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 5.20.020, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
3-4-3: RECORD OF SALES AND PURCHASES REQUIRED:
Every junk dealer shall keep a book in which shall be written, in ink in the
English language, at the time of each and every purchase and sale, a listing of
the weight and metallic description of the sale or purchase, together with the
full name and residence of the person or persons selling the junk, together
with the date and place of the purchase and sale. No entry in the book shall be
erased, mutilated or changed. The book and entries shall at all times be open
to inspection by the sheriff of the county or any of his deputies and by any
member of the police force of the city, and any constable or other state,
municipal or county officials in the county; provided, this chapter shall not
apply to any sale of less than twenty (20) pounds. (1991 Code § 5.20.030, as
amended)
3-4-4: STATEMENT FROM SELLER REQUIRED:
At the time of purchase by any junk dealer of any copper wire, pig, or pigs of
metal or of any junk, as specified in section
3-4-1 of this chapter, he shall obtain a signed and dated statement from the
person or persons selling it as to when, where and from whom the property was
obtained, and also the residence, address and place of employment of the seller
or sellers. The statement shall be retained for five (5) years by the junk
dealer and shall be subject to the provisions of section
3-4-3 of this chapter relating to erasure, mutilation or change, and also to
inspection. (1991 Code § 5.20.050, as amended)
3-4-5: FALSIFICATION OF STATEMENT:
Any seller who, in the making of his statement as required by this chapter in
selling, offering, or trying to sell junk, wilfully makes a false statement or
gives untrue information, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 5.20.060, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
3-4-6: PENALTY:
Any junk dealer who shall be found guilty of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; provided, that this chapter shall not be construed to in
any way affect any tax, license or regulation otherwise imposed on any junk
dealer. (1991 Code § 5.20.040, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC DANCES AND CABARETS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Public Dance Hall License Fees
3-5-3: Unlicensed Dances Prohibited
3-5-4: Licensing Conditions
3-5-5: Display Of License
3-5-6: Investigation And Recommendation
3-5-7: Dance Regulations
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
CABARET: Duly licensed restaurants which permit their patrons to dance, and
restaurants or premises which entertain their patrons with live performers who
sing or dance or which permit their patrons to dance, shall be deemed to be a
"cabaret", and such places shall be subject to the cabaret licensing provisions
and regulations as herein provided.
CLUB: Dances conducted and sponsored by private nonprofit clubs organized
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated title 16, chapter 6a, for members and their
guests only, and which shall be subject to the club licensing provisions as
herein provided, but such dances shall not be deemed to be public dances.
NONPUBLIC DANCES: Dances conducted and sponsored by public or private schools
and churches for the students or members thereof, even though an admission fee
is charged, and dances conducted in private homes on a private basis, shall not
be deemed to be public dances and shall be exempt from the licensing provisions
of this chapter.
PUBLIC DANCE: Any dance to which the public generally may gain admission, with
or without the payment of a fee, but shall not include any dance conducted on
or in any public park, street or public grounds by permission of the governing
body.
PUBLIC DANCE HALL: Any room, place or space in which a public dance is held or
in which classes in dancing are held and instruction in dancing is given for
hire. (1991 Code § 5.24.010, as amended)
3-5-2: PUBLIC DANCE HALL LICENSE FEES:
The license fee required for a public dance hall license shall be:
   A.   Daily: On a daily basis, regardless of size or capacity, twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per day;
   B.   Annual: On an annual basis, one hundred dollars ($100.00) for public
dance halls which have facilities to accommodate up to and including two
hundred (200) people; provided, however, that dance schools or studios with
facilities limited in size to permit instruction of no more than fifty (50)
students at the same time may receive an annual license upon the payment of a
fee of twelve dollars fifty cents ($12.50); provided, further, that this
reduced fee shall be applicable only if the school or studio is solely used for
dance instructional purposes at all times and never for other public dancing.
(1991 Code § 5.24.020, as amended)
3-5-3: UNLICENSED DANCES PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful to conduct or operate any dance until the place in which
the dance may be held shall first have been duly licensed, except as otherwise
herein provided.
   B.   If at any time a license under the provisions of this chapter is denied
or revoked, it shall thereafter be unlawful for any person to operate, open,
maintain, manage or conduct a dance at the same premises until a new license
shall be granted by the governing body. (1991 Code § 5.24.030, as amended)
3-5-4: LICENSING CONDITIONS:
No license shall be issued pursuant to this chapter unless the place for which
it is issued complies with and conforms to all laws, ordinances, health and
fire regulations applicable thereto, is properly ventilated, has available
separate and sufficient toilet conveniences for each sex, and is a safe and
proper place for the purposes for which it is to be used. (1991 Code §
5.24.040, as amended)
3-5-5: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every person to whom a license is issued under this chapter shall post the same
in a conspicuous place on the premises covered by such license. (1991 Code §
5.24.050, as amended)
3-5-6: INVESTIGATION AND RECOMMENDATION:
The police chief shall examine and investigate all applicants for licenses and
the premises to be licensed under this chapter. Following such examination, the
recommendations of the police chief shall be made in writing to the governing
body. The police chief shall be permitted to have access to all premises
licensed or applying for licenses under this chapter, and shall make periodic
inspections of the premises and report his findings to the governing body.
(1991 Code § 5.24.060, as amended)
3-5-7: DANCE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Persons Under Sixteen Prohibited At Public Dance:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection A2 of this section, it is unlawful
to permit any person who has not reached the age of sixteen (16) years to
attend or remain at any public dance or cabaret, unless such person be
accompanied by his parent.
      2.   It shall be lawful to permit persons who have attained the age of
fifteen (15) years to attend a public dance without being accompanied by their
parents, only where such public dance is held under all of the following
conditions:
         a.   The dance is sponsored or held primarily for groups of persons
between fifteen (15) and sixteen (16) years of age;
         b.   No cigarettes, beer or liquor is sold, consumed or used upon the
dance hall premises;
         c.   The dance closes not later than twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight;
         d.   The dance is under police supervision, to be furnished at the
expense of the management of the dance;
         e.   The dance is conducted in an atmosphere and environment and under
controls conducive to the proper behavior and conduct of all persons in
attendance;
         f.   A permit to conduct the dance has first been obtained from the
governing body;
         g.   When, in the opinion of the governing body, the circumstances
justify it, the governing body may permit dances at a definite location to
continue for an extended period of time without requiring a permit for each
separate dance, subject to the right to revoke such permit at any time in the
discretion of the governing body.
   B.   Misrepresentation Of Age Or Family Status Prohibited: It is unlawful
for any person to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of gaining
admission to a public dance or cabaret, or falsely to represent himself or
herself to be a parent or legal guardian of any person in order that such
person may attend or remain at any public dance or cabaret.
   C.   Proscribed Hours: It is unlawful for any person to conduct or maintain
a dance within a dance hall licensed pursuant to this chapter or, for any
person in charge of control of such dance hall, to allow or permit any such
dance or dancing between the hours of one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01)
A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., during Daylight Standard Time, and one minute
past twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., during Daylight
Saving Time; provided, however, dancing is permitted until one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. on New Year's Day.
   D.   Pass Out And Return Checks Prohibited: No pass out or return checks
shall be issued for use by persons who leave licensed dance premises, anterooms
thereof, and such portions of the grounds immediately adjacent to such premises
as are well lighted and under the immediate control of the dance hall
management, and all persons leaving the licensed dance premises, anterooms
thereof and well lighted grounds immediately adjacent thereto shall be required
to pay the regular admission fee in case of return to the dance.
   E.   Illumination Required: Premises licensed pursuant to this chapter shall
be illuminated throughout the licensed premises and during business hours at a
minimum of one candle power light measured at a level five feet (5') above the
floor.
   F.   Walkathons Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to conduct or
maintain any walkathon, marathon or any other exhibition of human endurance to
which the public is admitted as spectators, and it is unlawful for any person
to attend any walkathon, marathon or any other exhibition of human endurance.
   G.   Smoking And Drinking While Dancing Prohibited: It is unlawful to smoke
or drink any liquid while dancing on any licensed dance premises, or to permit
the same.
   H.   Allowance Of Disorderly Conduct Prohibited: It is unlawful for any
person to whom a license under this chapter has been issued to allow or permit
on the licensed premises any indecent act to be committed or any disorder or
conduct of a gross, violent or vulgar character, or to permit prostitutes,
pimps or procurers to enter and remain on the premises.
   I.   Minimum Space Required: No dancing shall be permitted in any premises
licensed as a cabaret, nor shall any license be issued unless there is at least
six hundred (600) square feet of suitable dancing area in addition to the
walkways and aisles required by this chapter. (1991 Code § 5.24.070, as
amended; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 6
TRANSIENT OR ITINERANT MERCHANTS, VENDORS OR PEDDLERS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: License Required
3-6-3: Application For License
3-6-4: Fee For License
3-6-5: Investigation And Issuance Of License
3-6-6: Licenses And Badges; Display
3-6-7: Expiration Of License
3-6-8: Revocation Of License
3-6-9: Appeal
3-6-10: Additional Requirements
3-6-11: Exceptions
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
"Transient merchant", "itinerant merchant" or "itinerant vendor" or "peddler"
means any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, agent, cosignee or
employee, whether or not a resident of the city, who engages in a temporary
business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the
city, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies
any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, public room in
any hotel, motel, lodging house, apartment, shop or any street, alley or other
place within the city, for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and
merchandise, either privately or at public auction. The person, firm or
corporation so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the provision
of this chapter merely by reason of associating temporarily with any local
dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such transient
business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for:
   A.   A transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor to engage
in such business without first obtaining a license therefor in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter or chapter 7 of this title.
   B.   Any person to engage in the business of peddler without first obtaining
a license therefor as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006; amd.
2009 Code)
3-6-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
At the time of filing the application, a fee in the amount set by resolution or
ordinance of the city council, which shall be deposited with the city recorder,
is required, together with a copy of the applicant's driver's license or other
legally issued identification. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-6-4: FEE FOR LICENSE:
The license fee which shall be charged by the city recorder for any license
issued pursuant to this chapter shall be in the amount set by resolution or
ordinance of the city council. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-6-5: INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Referral To Law Enforcement: Upon receiving the application, the city
recorder shall refer it to the city law enforcement agency, which shall cause
an investigation of the applicant's business and moral character to be made by
reviewing and verifying the information, statements and representations
contained in the application.
   B.   Unsatisfactory Result: If as a result of the investigation the
applicant's character or business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory,
the city law enforcement agency representative shall endorse such upon the
application, together with a statement of his reasons therefor, and return the
application to the city recorder, who shall notify the applicant that his
application has been disapproved and that no permit and license will be issued.
   C.   Satisfactory Result: If as result of such investigation, the character
and business responsibility of the applicant is found to be satisfactory, the
city law enforcement agency representative shall endorse such upon the
application and return it to the city recorder. Upon the receipt of the
application signed by the city law enforcement agency representative, the city
recorder, upon payment of the prescribed license fee, shall issue the business
license to the applicant, if the application is otherwise complete. Such
license shall contain the signature of the issuing officer and shall show the
name, address and photograph of the licensee and the kind of goods to be sold
pursuant to the application, together with an expiration date. (Ord. 2006-09,
12-6-2006)
3-6-6: LICENSES AND BADGES; DISPLAY:
   A.   Badge: The city recorder shall issue to each licensee at the time of
delivery of his license a badge which shall contain the words "Licensed
Transient Vendor or Merchant" or "Licensed Peddler", as the case may be, for
which the application was made and the license issued, and the number of the
license, in letters and figures easily discernible from a distance of five feet
(5'). Such badge shall, during the time the vendor, merchant or peddler is
engaged in the business for which they are licensed, be worn constantly by them
on the front of their garment in such a way as to be conspicuous.
   B.   Request To Exhibit License: Any person licensed pursuant to this
chapter shall exhibit their license at the request of any citizen of the city.
   C.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of any law enforcement officer of the
city to require any person seen selling or peddling, and who is not known by
such officer to be duly licensed, to produce his or her license and to enforce
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-6-7: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire on the date specified
on the license. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-6-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Causes: Permits and licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may be
revoked by the city law enforcement agency or the city recorder, after notice
and hearing, for any of the following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or a false statement contained in the
application for the license;
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on licensee's business;
      3.   Any violation of this chapter;
      4.   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      5.   Conducting the business of the licensee in an unlawful manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or general welfare of the public.
   B.   Notice And Hearing: Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license
shall be given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint
and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage
prepaid, to the licensee at his last known address or at the address shown on
his application. The hearing and notice shall in all other aspects
substantially comply with title 1, chapter 8 of this code. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-
2006)
3-6-9: APPEAL:
Appeal by any person aggrieved by the action of the city law enforcement agency
or the city recorder in the denial or revocation of a permit or a license
pursuant to this chapter shall be taken by filing with the city council, within
fourteen (14) days after notice of the action complained of has been mailed to
such person's last known address or address on the business application, a
written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The city
council shall set a time and place for the hearing on such appeal and notice of
such hearing shall be given to the applicant in the same manner as provided in
section
3-6-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-6-10: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
This chapter shall not be construed so as to waive the provisions and
requirements of any other ordinance of the city, and the requirements and fees
required herein shall be in addition to any other requirements and fees of any
other ordinance of the city. (1991 Code § 5.28.070, as amended)
3-6-11: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any individual who is at the
time he is engaged in any activity which would otherwise require licensing by
this chapter, engaged in an activity which is authorized by any church or
charity which has a permanent structure located within the state, provided such
church or charity has had such permanent structure for at least six (6) months
prior to the date when the individuals engaged in the activity which would
otherwise require licensing by this chapter. (1991 Code § 5.28.080, as amended)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL SOLICITATION
SECTION:
3-7-1: Purpose
3-7-2: No Other City License Or Approval Required
3-7-3: Definitions
3-7-4: Exemptions From Chapter
3-7-5: Solicitation Prohibited
3-7-6: Registration Of Solicitors
3-7-7: Application Form
3-7-8: Written Disclosures
3-7-9: When Registration Begins
3-7-10: Issuance Of Certificates
3-7-11: Form Of Certificate And Identification Badge
3-7-12: Maintenance Of Registry
3-7-13: Nontransferability Of Certificates
3-7-14: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of Certificate
3-7-15: Appeal
3-7-16: Deceptive Soliciting Practices Prohibited
3-7-17: "No Solicitation" Notice
3-7-18: Duties Of Solicitors
3-7-19: Time Of Day Restrictions
3-7-20: Buyer's Right To Cancel
3-7-21: Penalty
3-7-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Residents of the city have an inalienable interest in their personal
safety, well being, and privacy in their residences, as well as their ability
to provide or receive information regarding matters of personal belief,
political or charitable activities, and goods and services lawfully in
commerce. The city has a substantial interest in protecting the well being,
tranquility, personal safety and privacy of its citizens, which includes the
ability to protect citizens from unwanted intrusions upon residential property.
The city also has a substantial interest in protecting citizens from fraud or
otherwise unfair consumer sales practices, as well as criminal activity.
   B.   There must be a balance between these substantial interests of the city
and its citizens, and the effect of the regulations in this chapter on the
rights of those who are regulated. Based on the collective experiences of city
officials derived from regulating business activity, protecting persons and
property from criminal conduct, responding to the inquiries of citizens
regarding door to door solicitation, the experience of its law enforcement
officers and those affected by door to door canvassing and solicitation, as
well as judicial decisions outlining the boundaries of constitutional
protections afforded and denied persons seeking to engage in door to door
solicitation, the city adopts this chapter to promote the city's substantial
interests in:
      1.   Respecting citizens decisions regarding privacy in their residences;
      2.   Protecting persons from criminal conduct;
      3.   Providing equal opportunity to advocate for and against religious
belief, political position or charitable activities; and
      4.   Permitting truthful and nonmisleading door to door solicitation
regarding lawful goods or services in intrastate or interstate commerce.
   C.   The city finds that the procedures, rules and regulations set forth in
this chapter are narrowly tailored to preserve and protect the city interests
referred to herein, while at the same time balancing the rights of those
regulated. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-2: NO OTHER CITY LICENSE OR APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Registered solicitors and persons exempt from registration need not
apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit or registration from the city
to engage in door to door solicitation.
   B.   Any business licensed by the city under another city ordinance that
uses employees, independent contractors or agents for door to door solicitation
in an effort to provide any tangible or intangible benefit to the business,
shall be required to have such solicitors obtain a certificate, unless
otherwise exempt from registration.
   C.   Those responsible persons or entities associated with registered
solicitors need not apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit or
registration from the city, provided they do not establish a temporary or fixed
place of business in the city.
   D.   Nothing herein is intended to interfere with or supplant any other
requirement of federal, state or other local government law regarding any
license, permit or certificate that a registered solicitor is otherwise
required to have or maintain. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ADVOCATING: Speech or conduct intended to inform, promote or support religious
belief, political position or charitable activities.
APPEALS OFFICER: The city council or designee of the city responsible for
receiving the information from the city and appellant regarding the denial or
suspension of a certificate, and issuing a decision as required by this
chapter.
APPELLANT: The person or entity appealing the denial or suspension of a
certificate, either personally as an applicant or registered solicitor, or on
behalf of the applicant or registered solicitor.
APPLICANT: An individual who is at least sixteen (16) years of age and not a
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other lawful entity who
applies for a certificate permitting door to door solicitation.
APPLICATION FORM: A standardized form provided by the city to an applicant to
be completed and submitted as part of registration.
BCI: An original or copy, dated no older than one hundred eighty (180) days
prior to the date of the application, of either: a) a Utah department of public
safety bureau of criminal identification verified criminal history report
personal to the applicant; or b) verification by the Utah department of public
safety bureau of criminal identification that no criminal history rising to the
level of a disqualifying status exists for the applicant.
BUSINESS: A commercial enterprise licensed by the city as a person or entity
under this title, having a fixed or temporary location within the city.
CERTIFICATE: A temporary, annual or renewal certificate permitting door to door
solicitation in the city applied for or issued pursuant to the terms of this
chapter.
CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES: Advocating by persons or entities that either are, or
support, a "charitable organization", as defined in this section.
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION 1 :
   A.   Includes any person, joint venture, partnership, limited liability
company, corporation, association, group, or other entity:
      1. That is:
         a. A benevolent, educational, voluntary health, philanthropic, humane,
patriotic, religious or eleemosynary, social welfare or advocacy, public
health, environmental or conservation, or civic organization;
         b. For the benefit of a public safety, law enforcement or firefighter
fraternal association; or
         c. Established for any charitable purpose; and
      2. That is tax exempt under applicable provisions of the internal revenue
code, as amended, and qualified to solicit and receive tax deductible
contributions from the public for charitable purposes.
   B.   "Charitable organization" includes a chapter, branch, area or office,
or similar affiliate, or any person soliciting contributions within the state
for a charitable organization that has its principal place of business outside
the city or state of Utah.
COMPETENT INDIVIDUAL: A person claiming or appearing to be at least eighteen
(18) years of age and of sufficiently sound mind and body to be able to engage
in rational thought, conversation and conduct.
COMPLETED APPLICATION: A fully completed application form, a BCI, two (2)
copies of the original identification relied on by the applicant to establish
proof of identity, and the tendering of fees.
CRIMINALLY CONVICTED: The final entry of a conviction, whether by a plea of no
contest, guilty, entry of a judicial or jury finding of guilt, which has not
been set aside on appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus. The criminal
conviction is that offense of which the applicant or registered solicitor was
convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge after completion
of conditions of probation or parole, and charges dismissed under a plea in
abeyance or diversion agreement.
DISQUALIFYING STATUS: Anything specifically defined in this chapter as
requiring the denial or suspension of a certificate, and any of the following:
   A.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of:
1) felony homicide; 2) physically abusing, sexually abusing or exploiting a
minor; 3) the sale or distribution of controlled substances; or 4) sexual
assault of any kind.
   B.   Criminal charges currently pending against the applicant or registered
solicitor for: 1) felony homicide; 2) physically abusing, sexually abusing or
exploiting a minor; 3) the sale or distribution of controlled substances; or 4)
sexual assault of any kind.
   C.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a felony within the last ten (10) years;
   D.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been incarcerated in a
federal prison within the past five (5) years;
   E.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a misdemeanor within the past five (5) years involving a crime of: 1) moral
turpitude; or 2) violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property.
   F.   A final civil judgment been entered against the applicant or registered
solicitor within the last five (5) years indicating that: 1) the applicant or
registered solicitor had either engaged in fraud or intentional
misrepresentation; or 2) a debt of the applicant or registered solicitor was
nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6) or
(a)(19);
   G.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently on parole or
probation to any court, penal institution or governmental entity, including
being under house arrest or subject to a tracking device;
   H.   The applicant or registered solicitor has an outstanding arrest warrant
from any jurisdiction; or
   I.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently subject to a
protective order based on physical or sexual abuse issued by a court or
competent jurisdiction.
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION: The practice of engaging in or attempting to engage
in conversation with any person at a residence, whether or not that person is a
competent individual, while making or seeking to make or facilitate a home
solicitation sale, or attempting to further the sale of goods and/or services.
ENTITY: Includes a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or
other lawful entity, organization, society or association.
FEES: The cost charged to the applicant or registered solicitor for the
issuance of a certificate and/or identification badge, which shall not exceed
the reasonable costs of processing the application and issuing the certificate
and/or identification badge. The fee shall be adopted by resolution or
ordinance of the city council.
FINAL CIVIL JUDGMENT: A civil judgment that would be recognized under state law
as a judgment to which collateral estoppel would apply.
GOODS: One or more tangible items, wares, objects or merchandise, perishables
of any kind, subscriptions, or manufactured products offered, provided or sold.
HOME SOLICITATION SALE: To make or attempt to make a sale of goods or services
by a solicitor at a residence by means of door to door solicitation, regardless
of:
   A.   The means of payment or consideration used for the purchase;
   B.   The time of delivery of the goods or services; or
   C.   The previous or present classification of the solicitor as a solicitor,
peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant or similar designation.
LICENSING OFFICER: The city employee or agent responsible for receiving from an
applicant or registered solicitor the completed application and either
granting, suspending or denying the applicant's certificate.
NO SOLICITATION SIGN: A reasonably visible and legible sign that states "No
Soliciting", "No Solicitors", "No Salespersons", "No Trespassing", or words of
similar import.
POLITICAL POSITION: Any actually held belief, or information for, against or in
conjunction with any political, social, environmental or humanitarian belief or
practice.
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person who has been issued a current certificate by
the city.
REGISTRATION: The process used by the city licensing officer to accept a
completed application and determine whether or not a certificate will be
denied, granted or suspended.
RELIGIOUS BELIEF: Any sincerely held belief, or information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any theistic, or atheistic assumption, presumption or
position, or religious doctrine, dogma or practice, regardless of whether or
not the belief or information is endorsed by any other person or public or
private entity.
RESIDENCE: Any living unit contained within any building or structure that is
occupied by any person as a dwelling, consistent with the zoning laws of the
city, together with the lot or other real property on which the living unit is
located. This does not include the sidewalk, public street or public rights of
way.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON OR ENTITY: That person or entity responsible to provide the
following to an applicant, registered solicitor and the competent individual in
a residence to whom a sale of goods or services is made or attempted to be made
by means of a home solicitation sale:
   A.   Maintaining a state sales tax number, a special events sales tax
number, computing the sale taxes owing from any sale of goods or services,
paying the sales taxes, and filing any required returns or reports;
   B.   Facilitating and responding to requests from consumers who desire to
cancel the sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law; and
   C.   Refunding any monies paid or reversing credit card charges to those
persons who timely rescind any sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights
or law.
SALE OF GOODS OR SERVICES: The conduct and agreement of a solicitor and the
competent individual in a residence regarding a particular goods or service
that entitles the consumer to rescind the same within three (3) days under any
applicable federal, state or local law.
SERVICES: Those intangible goods or personal benefits offered, provided or sold
to a competent individual of a residence.
SOLICITING, SOLICIT OR SOLICITATION: Any of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain sales or orders for the exchange of goods, wares,
merchandise or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or
consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought;
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase
insurance, subscriptions to publications, or publications;
   C.   Seeking to obtain contributions of money or any other thing of value
for the benefit of any person or entity;
   D.   Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or
services;
   E.   Seeking to engage an individual in conversation at a residence for the
purpose of promoting or facilitating the receipt of information regarding
religious belief, political position, charitable conduct or a home solicitation
sale.
   F.   Other activities falling within the commonly accepted definition of
soliciting, such as hawking or peddling.
SOLICITOR OR SOLICITORS: A person(s) engaged in door to door solicitation.
SUBMITTED IN WRITING: The information for an appeal of a denial or suspension
of a certificate, submitted in any type of written statement to the city
offices by certified, registered, priority, overnight or delivery confirmation
mail, facsimile or hand delivery.
SUBSTANTIATED REPORT: An oral, written or electronic report:
   A.   That is submitted to and documented by the city;
   B.   By any of the following:
      1. A competent individual who is willing to provide law enforcement or
other city employees with publicly available identification of their name,
address, and any other reliable means of contact;
      2. A city law enforcement or licensing officer; or
       3. Any other regularly established law enforcement agency at any level
of government;
   C.   That provides any of the following information regarding a registered
solicitor:
      1. Documented verification of a previously undisclosed disqualifying
status of a registered solicitor;
      2. Probable cause that the registered solicitor has committed a
disqualifying status which has not yet been determined to be a disqualifying
status;
       3. Documented, eye witness accounts that the registered solicitor has
engaged in repeated patterns of behavior that demonstrates failure by the
registered solicitor to adhere to the requirements of this chapter; or
      4. Probable cause that continued licensing of the registered solicitor
creates exigent circumstances that threaten the health, safety or welfare of
any individuals or entities within the city.
WAIVER: The written form provided to applicant by the city wherein applicant
agrees that the city may obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on
the applicant for licensing purposes under this chapter, and which contains
applicant's notarized signature. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 13-22-2(1).
3-7-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER:
   A.   Specified: The following are exempt from registration under this
chapter:
      1.   Persons specifically invited to a residence by a competent
individual prior to the time of the person's arrival at the residence;
      2.   Persons whose license, permit, certificate or registration with the
state permits them to engage in door to door solicitation to offer goods or
services to an occupant of the residence;
      3.   Persons delivering goods to a residence pursuant to a previously
made order, or persons providing services at a residence pursuant to a
previously made request by a competent individual;
      4.   Persons advocating or disseminating information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any religious belief, or political position, regardless of
whether goods, services, or any other consideration is offered or given, with
or without any form of commitment, contribution, donation, pledge, or purchase;
and
      5.   Persons representing a charitable organization. The charitable
exemption shall apply to students soliciting contributions to finance
extracurricular social, athletic, artistic, scientific or cultural programs;
provided, that the solicitation has been approved in writing by the school
administration, and that such student solicitors carry current picture student
identification from the educational institution for which they are soliciting.
   B.   Activities Not Exempt: Those persons exempt from registration are not
exempt from the duties and prohibitions outlined in sections
3-7-17 through
3-7-19 of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-5: SOLICITATION PROHIBITED:
Unless otherwise authorized, permitted or exempted pursuant to the terms and
provisions of this chapter, the practice of being in and upon a private
residence within the city by solicitors, for the purpose of home solicitation
sales or to provide goods or services, is prohibited and is punishable as set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-6: REGISTRATION OF SOLICITORS:
Unless otherwise exempt under this chapter, all persons desiring to engage in
door to door solicitation within the city, prior to doing so, shall submit a
completed application to the licensing officer and obtain a certificate. (Ord.
2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-7: APPLICATION FORM:
The licensing officer shall provide a standard application form for use for the
registration of solicitors. Upon request to the licensing officer, or as
otherwise provided, any person or entity may obtain in person, by mail, or
facsimile, a copy of this application form. Each application form shall require
disclosure and reporting by the applicant of the following information,
documentation and fee:
   A.   Review Of Written Disclosures: An affirmation that the applicant has
received and reviewed the disclosure information required by this chapter.
   B.   Contact Information:
      1.   Applicant's true, correct and legal name, including any former names
or aliases used during the last ten (10) years;
      2.   Applicant's telephone number, home address and mailing address, if
different;
      3.   If different from the applicant, the name, address, and telephone
number of the responsible person or entity; and
      4.   The address by which all notices to the applicant required under
this chapter are to be sent.
   C.   Proof Of Identity:
      1.   An in person verification by the licensing officer of the
applicant's true identity by use of any of the following which bear a
photograph of said applicant:
         a.   A valid driver's license issued by any state;
         b.   A valid passport issued by the United States;
         c.   A valid identification card issued by any state;
         d.   A valid identification issued by a branch of the United States
military.
      2.   Upon verification of identity, the original identification submitted
to establish proof of identity shall be returned to the applicant.
   D.   Proof Of Registration With Department Of Commerce: The applicant shall
provide proof that either the applicant, or the responsible person or entity,
has registered with the state department of commerce.
   E.   Special Events Sales Tax Number: The applicant shall provide a special
events sales tax number for either the applicant, or for the responsible person
or entity for which the applicant will be soliciting.
   F.   Marketing Information:
      1.   The goods or services offered by the applicant, including any
commonly known, registered or trademarked names;
      2.   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses, permits,
registrations, or other qualifications required by federal or state law to
promote, provide, or render advice regarding the offered goods or services.
   G.   BCI Background Check: The applicant shall provide:
      1.   An original or a copy of a "BCI" background check, as defined in
section
3-7-3 of this chapter; and
      2.   A signed copy of a waiver whereby applicant agrees to allow the city
to obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on applicant for purposes
of enforcement of this chapter 1 .
   H.   Responses To Questions Regarding Disqualifying Status: The applicant
shall be required to affirm or deny each of the following statements on the
application form:
      1.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of: a) felony homicide;
b) physically abusing, sexually abusing or exploiting a minor; c) the sale or
distribution of controlled substances; or d) sexual assault of any kind;
      2.   Are any criminal charges currently pending against the applicant
for: a) felony homicide; b) physically abusing, sexually abusing or exploiting
a minor; c) the sale or distribution of controlled substances; or d) sexual
assault of any kind;
      3.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a felony within the
last ten (10) years;
      4.   Has the applicant been incarcerated in a federal or state prison
within the past five (5) years;
      5.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a misdemeanor within
the past five (5) years involving a crime of: a) moral turpitude; or b) violent
or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
      6.   Has a final civil judgment been entered against the applicant within
the last five (5) years indicating that: a) the applicant had either engaged in
fraud, or intentional misrepresentation; or b) that a debt of the applicant was
nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6) or
(a)(19);
      7.   Is the applicant currently on parole or probation to any court,
penal institution or governmental entity, including being under house arrest or
subject to a tracking device;
      8.   Does the applicant have an outstanding arrest warrant from any
jurisdiction; or
      9.   Is the applicant currently subject to a protective order based on
physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   I.   Fee: The applicant shall pay such fees as determined applicable by the
city, which shall not exceed the reasonable cost of processing the application
and issuing the certificate and/or identification badge.
   J.   Execution Of Application: The applicant shall execute the application
form, stating upon oath or affirmation, under penalty of perjury, that based on
the present knowledge and belief of the applicant, the information provided is
complete, truthful and accurate. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 53-10-108(1)(b).
3-7-8: WRITTEN DISCLOSURES:
The application form shall be accompanied by written disclosures notifying the
applicant of the following:
   A.   The applicant's submission of the application authorizes the city to
verify information submitted with the completed application, including:
      1.   The applicant's address;
      2.   The applicant's and/or responsible person or entity's state tax
identification and special use tax numbers, if any;
      3.   The validity of the applicant's proof of identity.
   B.   The city may consult any publicly available sources for information on
the applicant, including, but not limited, to databases for any outstanding
warrants, protective orders or civil judgments.
   C.   Establishing proof of identity is required before registration is
allowed.
   D.   Identification of the fee amount that must be submitted by applicant
with a completed application.
   E.   The applicant must submit a BCI background check with a completed
application.
   F.   To the extent permitted by state and/or federal law, the applicant's
BCI background check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not
available for public inspection.
   G.   The city will maintain copies of the applicant's application form,
proof of identity, and identification badge. These copies will become public
records available for inspection on demand at the city offices, whether or not
a certificate is denied, granted or renewed.
   H.   The criteria for disqualifying status, denial or suspension of a
certificate under the provisions of this chapter.
   I.   That a request for a temporary certificate will be granted or denied
within eight (8) hours during regular city office hours that a completed
application is submitted. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-9: WHEN REGISTRATION BEGINS:
The licensing officer shall not begin the registration process unless the
applicant has submitted a completed application, and paid the appropriate fee
as set by resolution or ordinance. The original identification submitted to
establish proof of identity shall be returned after the licensing officer
verifies the applicant's identity. A copy of the identification may be retained
by the licensing officer. If an original BCI background check is submitted by
the applicant, the licensing officer shall make a copy of the BCI and return
the original to the applicant. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-10: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES:
The licensing officer shall review the completed application submitted by the
applicant and issue a certificate in accordance with the following:
   A.   Temporary Certificate:
      1.   A temporary certificate shall issue allowing the applicant to
immediately begin door to door solicitation upon the following conditions:
         a.   Applicant's submission of a completed application;
         b.   Applicant's submission of the required fee;
         c.   Applicant establishes proof of identity;
         d.   The applicant's representations on the application form do not
affirmatively show a disqualifying status;
         e.   The BCI does not affirmatively show a disqualifying status; and
         f.   The applicant has not previously been denied a certificate by the
city, or had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.
      2.   A temporary certificate will automatically expire after twenty five
(25) calendar days from issuance, or upon grant or denial of an annual
certificate, whichever period is shorter.
   B.   Annual Certificate: Within twenty five (25) calendar days of the
issuance of a temporary certificate, the city shall:
      1.   Take any and all actions it deems appropriate to verify the
truthfulness and completeness of the information submitted by the applicant,
including, but not limited to, those disclosed with the application form;
      2.   Issue written notice to the applicant and the responsible person or
entity, if any, that the applicant either:
         a.   Will be issued an annual certificate, eligible for renewal one
year from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate; or
         b.   Will not be issued an annual certificate for reasons cited in
section
3-7-14 of this chapter.
   C.   Renewal Certificate: An annual certificate shall be valid for one year
from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate and shall expire at
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on the anniversary date of issuance. Any annual
certificate that is not suspended, revoked or expired may be renewed upon the
request of the registered solicitor and the submission of a new completed
application and payment of the fee, unless any of the conditions for the
denial, suspension or revocation of a certificate are present as set forth in
section
3-7-14 of this chapter, or a disqualifying status is present. (Ord. 2006-09,
12-6-2006)
3-7-11: FORM OF CERTIFICATE AND IDENTIFICATION BADGE:
   A.   Certificate Form: Should the licensing officer determine that the
applicant is entitled to a certificate, the licensing officer shall issue a
certificate to the applicant. The certificate shall list the name of the
registered solicitor and the responsible person or entity, if any, and the date
on which the certificate expires. The certificate shall be dated and signed by
the license officer. The certificate shall be carried by the registered
solicitor at all times while soliciting in the city.
   B.   Identification Badge: With both the temporary and annual certificates,
the city shall issue each registered solicitor an identification badge that
shall be worn prominently on his or her person while soliciting in the city.
The identification badge shall bear the name of the city and shall contain: 1)
the name of the registered solicitor; 2) address and phone number of the
registered solicitor, or the name, address and phone number of the responsible
person or entity is provided; 3) a recent photograph of the registered
solicitor; and 4) the date on which the certificate expires. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-
6-2006)
3-7-12: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY:
The licensing officer shall maintain and make available for public inspection a
copy or record of every completed application received and the certificate or
written denial issued by the city. The applicant's BCI background check shall
remain a confidential, protected, private record not available for public
inspection. The licensing officer may furnish to the head of the city law
enforcement agency a listing of all applicants, those denied, and those issued
a certificate. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-13: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF CERTIFICATES:
Certificates shall be issued only in the name of the applicant and shall list
the responsible party or entity, if any. The certificate shall be
nontransferable. A registered solicitor desiring to facilitate or attempt to
facilitate home solicitation sales with different: a) goods or services; or b)
responsible person or entity from those designated in the originally submitted
completed application, shall submit a written change request to the licensing
officer. A new certificate based on the amended information shall issue for the
balance of time remaining on the solicitor's previous certificate before the
amendment was filed. Before the new certificate is given to the registered
solicitor, the registered solicitor shall obtain a revised identification badge
from the city, after payment of the fee for the identification badge. (Ord.
2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-14: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Denial: Upon review, the licensing officer shall refuse to issue a
certificate to an applicant for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Denial Of Temporary Certificate:
         a.   The application form is not complete;
         b.   The applicant fails to: 1) establish proof of identity; 2)
provide a BCI; or 3) pay the fees;
         c.   The completed application or BCI indicates that the applicant has
a disqualifying status; or
         d.   The applicant has previously been denied a certificate by the
city, or has had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.
      2.   Denial Of Annual Certificate:
         a.   The information submitted by the applicant at the time of the
granting of the temporary certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         b.   Since the submission of the completed application, the applicant
is subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         c.   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         d.   Since the submission of the application, the city has received a
substantiated report regarding the past or present conduct of the applicant;
         e.   Since the submission of the application, the city or other
governmental entity has either criminally convicted or obtained a civil
injunction against the applicant for violating this chapter or similar federal,
state or municipal laws in a manner rising to the level of a disqualifying
status; or
         f.   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that: 1) the applicant had
either engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation; or 2) that a debt of
the applicant was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2),
(a)(4), (a)(6) or (a)(19).
      3.   Denial Of Annual Certificate Renewal:
         a.   The information submitted by the applicant when seeking renewal
of a certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         b.   Since the submission of the renewal application, the applicant is
subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         c.   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         d.   Since the submission of the application or granting of a
certificate, the city has received a substantiated report regarding the past or
present conduct of the solicitor;
         e.   The city or other governmental entity has either criminally
convicted or obtained a civil injunction against the applicant for violating
this chapter or similar federal, state or municipal laws in a manner rising to
the level of a disqualifying status; or
         f.   Since the submission of the application, a final judgment has
been entered against the applicant indicating that: 1) the applicant had either
engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation; or 2) that a debt of the
applicant was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2), (a)
(4), (a)(6) or (a)(19).
   B.   Suspension Or Revocation: The city shall either suspend or revoke a
certificate when any of the reasons warranting the denial of a certificate
occurs.
   C.   Notice Of Denial Or Suspension: Upon determination of the licensing
office to deny an applicant's completed application or to suspend a registered
solicitor's certificate, the city shall cause written notice to be sent to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the method indicated in the completed
application. The notice shall specify the grounds for the denial or suspension,
the documentation or information the city relied on to make the decision, the
availability of the documentation for review by applicant upon one business
day's notice to the city, and the date upon which the denial or suspension of
the certificate shall take effect. It shall further state that the applicant or
registered solicitor shall have ten (10) business days from the receipt of the
notice of denial or suspension to appeal the same. The denial or suspension of
the certificate shall be effective no sooner than two (2) calendar days from
the date the notice is sent, unless that suspension is because of exigent
circumstances outlined in subsection C4 of the definition of "substantial
report", as defined in section
3-7-3 of this chapter, in which case, the suspension is effective immediately.
The denial or suspension shall remain effective unless and until the order is
rescinded, overturned on appeal, or determined by a court to be contrary to
equity or law. Failure to appeal the suspension of a certificate automatically
results in its revocation. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-15: APPEAL:
An applicant or registered solicitor whose certificate has been denied or
suspended shall have the right to appeal to the city council or its designee.
Any appeal must be submitted by either the applicant, the responsible person or
entity, or legal counsel for either who: a) documents the relationship with the
applicant or responsible person or entity; or b) is licensed or authorized by
the state to do so, and makes the assertion of an agency relationship. The
following procedures and requirements shall apply:
   A.   Time Of Submission: Any appeal must be submitted in writing to the city
recorder with a copy to the license officer within ten (10) business days of
the decision from which the appeal is taken. Such appeal shall describe in
detail the nature of the appeal, the action complained of and the grounds for
appeal.
   B.   Information Made Available: Upon request of the applicant or registered
solicitor, within one business day, the city will make available any
information upon which it relied in making the determination to either deny or
suspend the certificate.
   C.   Review: The appeals officer shall review, de novo, all written
information submitted by the applicant or registered solicitor to the licensing
officer, any additional information relied upon by the licensing officer as the
basis for denial, suspension or revocation, and any additional information
supplied by the city, applicant or registered solicitor. Any additional
information submitted by any party to the appeals officer shall be
simultaneously submitted to the opposing party. If desired, any party shall
have three (3) business days to submit rebuttal documentation to the appeals
officer regarding the additional information submitted by the opposing party.
   D.   Decision; Extension: The appeals officer will render a decision no
later than fifteen (15) calendar days from the date the appeal was taken,
unless an extension of time is agreed upon by the parties. In the event that
any party to the appeal submits rebuttal information as allowed in subsection C
of this section, the fifteen (15) calendar days shall be extended to include
the additional three (3) days for rebuttal.
      1.   The denial or suspension of the certificate shall be reversed by the
appeals officer if, upon review of the written appeal and information
submitted, the appeals officer finds that the licensing officer made a material
mistake of law or fact in denying or suspending the applicant or registered
solicitor's certificate.
      2.   If the written appeal and information submitted indicates that the
licensing officer properly denied or suspended the certificate of the applicant
or registered solicitor, the denial or suspension of the certificate shall be
affirmed and constitute a determination that the suspended certificate is
revoked.
      3.   The decision of the appeals officer shall be delivered to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the means designated in the completed
application, or as otherwise agreed upon when the appeal was filed.
   E.   Administrative Remedies Exhausted: After the ruling of the appeals
officer, the applicant or solicitor is deemed to have exhausted all
administrative remedies with the city.
   F.   Further Relief: Nothing herein shall impede or interfere with the
applicant's, solicitor's or city's right to seek relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-16: DECEPTIVE SOLICITING PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   False Statements: No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially
false or fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.
   B.   Disclosures Required: A solicitor shall immediately disclose to the
consumer during face to face solicitation: 1) the name of the solicitor; 2) the
name and address of the entity with whom the solicitor is associated; and 3)
the purpose of the solicitor's contact with the person and/or competent
individual. This requirement may be satisfied through the use of the badge and
informational flyer.
   C.   True And Correct Name: No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an
alias, or any name other than his or her true and correct name.
   D.   Implying City Endorsement: No solicitor shall represent directly or by
implication that the granting of a certificate of registration implies any
endorsement by the city of the solicitor's goods or services, or of the
individual solicitor. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-17: "NO SOLICITATION" NOTICE:
   A.   Posting Of Notice: Any occupant of a residence may give notice of a
desire to refuse solicitors by displaying a "No Solicitation" sign, which shall
be posted on or near the main entrance door or on or near the property line
adjacent to the sidewalk leading to the residence.
   B.   Notice To Solicitor: The display of such sign or placard shall be
deemed to constitute notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of the
residence does not desire to receive and/or does not invite solicitors.
   C.   Responsibility Of Solicitor: It shall be the responsibility of the
solicitor to check each residence for the presence of any such notice.
   D.   Applicability: The provisions of this section shall apply also to
solicitors who are exempt from registration pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-18: DUTIES OF SOLICITORS:
   A.   Check For Signage: Every person soliciting or advocating shall check
each residence for any "No Soliciting" sign or placard, or any other notice or
sign notifying a solicitor not to solicit on the premises, such as, but not
limited to, "No Solicitation" signs. If such sign or placard is posted, the
solicitor shall desist from any efforts to solicit at the residence or dwelling
and shall immediately depart from such property. Possession of a certificate of
registration does not in any way relieve any solicitor of this duty.
   B.   Solicitation Prohibited: It is a violation of this chapter for any
person soliciting or advocating to knock on the door, ring the doorbell, or in
any other manner attempt to attract the attention of an occupant of a residence
that bears a "No Solicitation" sign, or similar sign or placard, for the
purpose of engaging in, or attempting to engage in advocating, a home
solicitation sale, door to door soliciting or soliciting.
   C.   Fraudulent Solicitation: It is a violation of this chapter for any
solicitor through ruse, deception or fraudulent concealment of a purpose to
solicit, to take action calculated to secure an audience with an occupant at a
residence.
   D.   Request To Depart: Any solicitor who is at any time asked by an
occupant of a residence or dwelling to leave shall immediately and peacefully
depart.
   E.   Physical Contact: The solicitor shall not intentionally or recklessly
make any physical contact with, or touch another person without the persons
consent.
   F.   Entrance Into Residence: The solicitor shall not follow a person into a
residence without their explicit consent.
   G.   Repeated Solicitation: The solicitor shall not continue repeated
soliciting after a person and/or competent individual has communicated clearly
and unequivocally their lack of interest in the subject, goods or services of
the solicitor.
   H.   Obscene Language Or Gestures: The solicitor shall not use obscene
language or gestures. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-19: TIME OF DAY RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or not, to solicit at a
residence before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.,
Mountain Standard Time, Monday through Saturday, unless the solicitor has
express prior permission from the resident to do so. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-20: BUYER'S RIGHT TO CANCEL:
In any home solicitation sale, unless the buyer requests the solicitor to
provide goods or services without delay in an emergency, the seller or
solicitor shall present to the buyer and obtain buyer's signature to a written
statement which informs the buyer of the right to cancel within the third
business day after signing an agreement to purchase. Such notice of "buyer's
right to cancel" shall be in the form required by Utah Code Annotated section
70C-5-103, or a current version thereof, or any state or federal law modifying
or amending such provision. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006)
3-7-21: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any term or provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-6-2006; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 8
CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: Use Of Names Without Consent Prohibited; Exception
3-8-3: Penalty
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: Any organization that is benevolent, philanthropic,
patriotic or eleemosynary, or one purporting to be such.
CONTRIBUTION: The promise or grant of any money or property of any kind or
value.
PERSON: Any individual, organization, group, association, partnership,
corporation, or any combination of them.
PROFESSIONAL FUNDRAISER: Any person who, for compensation or any other
consideration, plans, conducts or manages the solicitation of contributions for
or on behalf of any charitable organization or any other person, or who engages
in the business of, or holds himself out to persons as independently engaged in
the business of, soliciting contributions for such purpose, but shall not
include a bona fide officer or employee of a charitable organization.
PROFESSIONAL SOLICITOR: Any person who is employed or retained for compensation
by a professional fundraiser to solicit contributions in the city for
charitable purposes. (1991 Code § 5.32.010, as amended)
3-8-2: USE OF NAMES WITHOUT CONSENT PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
   A.   No charitable organization, professional fundraiser or professional
solicitor, seeking to raise funds for charitable purposes, shall use the name
of any other person for the purpose of soliciting contributions without the
written consent of the person; provided, that this section shall not apply to
religious corporations or organizations, charities, agencies and organizations
operated, supervised or controlled by or in connection with a religious
corporation or organization.
   B.   It is a violation of this chapter to use, without written consent, the
name of a person for the purpose of soliciting contributions if the person's
name is listed on any stationery, advertisement, brochure or correspondence of
a charitable organization, or his name is listed or referred to as one who has
contributed, or sponsored, or endorsed the charitable organization or its
activities. (1991 Code § 5.32.020, as amended)
3-8-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a class B
misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 5.32.030, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 9
OFFENSIVE BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-9-1: Commencement Of Offensive Businesses
3-9-2: Issuance Of Permits
3-9-3: Existing Offensive Businesses And Facilities
3-9-4: Control Of Animal And Fowl Facilities
3-9-1: COMMENCEMENT OF OFFENSIVE BUSINESSES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall commence or change the location of an
offensive business or establishment in or within one mile of the limits of the
city without first filing an application for a permit to do so with the city
recorder.
   B.   Offensive Businesses Defined: "Offensive businesses", within the
meaning of this chapter, shall include, but not be limited to, packing houses,
dairies, tanneries, canneries, renderies, junk or salvage yards, bone
factories, slaughterhouses, butcher shops, soap factories, foundries,
breweries, distilleries, livery stables, blacksmith shops, or any other
enterprise or establishment which creates excessive odors, fumes, smoke, gases
or noises.
   C.   Application For Permit: The application for a permit shall specify the
location at which the business or establishment is to be operated and
maintained, or the new location to which it is to be moved. The application
shall describe the type of activity which will be conducted and describe the
manner in which the business or establishment shall eliminate, control or
modify the emission by the business of the undesirable odors, fumes, noises and
other noisome features, and the manner in which it shall be screened from
public view, if its appearance is offensive. (1991 Code § 5.36.010, as amended)
3-9-2: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
   A.   Report, Recommendation: The city recorder shall cause a study to be
made of the proposed business or relocation of any offensive business or
establishment by the board of health and by personnel engaged in the inspection
of buildings and other facilities. A report and recommendation shall be made to
the governing body. The governing body, after review, may grant to the
applicant an opportunity to be heard and present additional facts. Thereafter
the governing body may:
      1.   Deny the application;
      2.   Recommend a modification thereof;
      3.   Grant a limited permit to enter into the business or make the change
of location, subject to the requirement that the business or facility conform
to standards established by the governing body with reference to controlling
the offensive features of the business.
   B.   Permit Subject To Revocation: In the event a permit is granted, it
shall be subject to revocation either upon failure of the operator or owner to
conduct his business in the manner specified by the governing body at the time
of the granting of the permit, or because a change of circumstances makes the
continued operation or maintenance of the business or facility a public
nuisance.
   C.   Power Of Governing Body: The governing body shall have power to revoke
or modify the permission to operate and maintain the business in such a manner
as it deems necessary for the public good. (1991 Code § 5.36.020)
3-9-3: EXISTING OFFENSIVE BUSINESSES AND FACILITIES:
   A.   Investigation: The governing body may require an investigation of any
existing offensive business or facility to determine whether or not it should
be permitted to remain in existence in or within one mile of the city limits.
If the governing body determines that the continuation of the business or
facility has become a nuisance to persons situated within the city limits or
that ample control is not being exercised to minimize the creation of excessive
odors, fumes, smoke, gases and noise, it shall notify the owner or operator
thereof that the governing body is considering revoking or modifying the
operator's permit.
   B.   Modification; Notice To Permittee: If the governing body decides to
require a modification of the manner in which the business or facility is to be
maintained, it shall specify the standards or specifications to which the
enterprise must conform or otherwise lose its permit to engage thereafter in
the business or activity. (1991 Code § 5.36.030, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
3-9-4: CONTROL OF ANIMAL AND FOWL FACILITIES:
   A.   Authority: The governing body shall have the power to prohibit or
control the location and management of any offensive, unwholesome business or
establishment in or within one mile of the city and may compel the owner of any
pigsty, privy, barn, corral, furbearing animal farm, feed yard, poultry farm,
or other unwholesome or nauseous house or place, to cleanse, abate or remove
the same.
   B.   Examination Of Operation: The governing body may on its own initiative
and shall, on complaint of a member of the public, examine the operation,
control or location of any business or facility for the purpose of determining
whether or not the operation of such business or facility should be improved so
as to minimize the offensive and unwholesome characteristics or whether the
business or activity should be moved or abated.
   C.   Notice Required: In the event that the governing body decides that the
business or facility should be abated, removed or controlled, it shall notify
the owner or operator of the business or facility of such fact.
   D.   Hearing; Action: After a hearing, the governing body may issue a
limited license wherein it may prescribe the specifications and standards which
must be followed by the business or facility in order to be permitted to
continue in operation.
   E.   Abatement Or Removal: Upon a determination by the governing body that
the business or facility is a nuisance, it shall have power to order the
abatement or removal of the facility or establishment. If the owner fails to
conform to such order, the governing body shall have power to bring all
necessary legal proceedings to force removal, abatement, or adherence to
standards. (1991 Code § 5.36.040, as amended)
CHAPTER 10
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES AND EMPLOYEE LICENSING
SECTION:
3-10-1: Title
3-10-2: Purpose
3-10-3: Definitions
3-10-4: Classification Of Licenses
3-10-5: Sexually Oriented Business License Requirements
3-10-6: Sexually Oriented Business Employee License Requirements
3-10-7: Fees
3-10-8: Inspection
3-10-9: Expiration Of License
3-10-10: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-10-11: No Transfer Of License
3-10-12: Hours Of Operation
3-10-13: Adult Motels
3-10-14: Escort Agencies And Escorts
3-10-15: Nude Model Studios
3-10-16: Public Nudity
3-10-17: Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films And Videos
3-10-18: Exterior Portions Of Sexually Oriented Businesses; Loitering And
Monitoring Requirements
3-10-19: Signage
3-10-20: Sale, Use Or Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
3-10-21: Persons Under Eighteen Prohibited; Attendant Required
3-10-22: Massages Prohibited
3-10-23: Public Nuisance
3-10-24: Prohibited Activities
3-10-25: Location And Zoning Restrictions
3-10-26: Exemptions From License Requirements
3-10-27: Penalty
3-10-1: TITLE:
The provisions codified in this chapter shall be known and may be referred to
as the SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS AND EMPLOYEE LICENSING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2007-
15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses and related activities to promote the health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations governing the time, place and manner of operation of
sexually oriented businesses and their employees to prevent the deleterious
location and concentration of sexually oriented businesses within the city. The
provisions of this chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent with
constitutional protections provided by the constitutions of the United States
and the state of Utah. The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose
nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any
communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it
is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by
adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the first amendment, or to
deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented
entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of
this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene or indecent
material. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings set
forth below, unless a different meaning is clearly indicated by the context:
ADULT ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated or token operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image
producing devices, are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial establishment that, as one
of its principal purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form of
consideration any one or more of the following: a) books, magazines,
periodicals or other printed matter, photographs, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes or video reproductions, slides, compact discs, digital video
discs or digital reproductions, or other visual representations that depict or
describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or b)
sexual devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use in connection with
specified sexual activities. A commercial establishment may have other
principal business purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental
of material depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas and still be categorized as an adult bookstore or adult video
store. Such other business purpose will not serve to exempt such commercial
establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore or adult video
store so long as one of its principal business purposes is the offering for
sale or rental for consideration the specified materials that depict or
describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. A principal
business purpose of a commercial establishment need not be its primary use for
purposes of being categorized as an adult bookstore or adult video store so
long as such principal business purpose is a significant use based upon the
visible inventory and/or commercial activity of the commercial establishment.
ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or similar
commercial establishment that regularly features persons who appear in a state
of nudity or seminudity, or who engage in erotic dancing or performances that
are intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or
customers.
ADULT MOTEL: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
   A.   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides customers with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions, or live
performances, which are characterized by the display or simulated display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and advertises the
availability of such material by means of a sign visible from a public right of
way or by means of on or off premises advertising, including, without
limitation, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets, leaflets, radio or television; or
   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
ten (10) hours; or
   C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room for
a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment where, for any form of
consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are
regularly shown to more than five (5) persons.
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or portion thereof, or
similar commercial establishment that regularly features persons who appear in
a state of nudity or seminudity, or live performances which are characterized
by the exposure of specified anatomical areas.
CHARACTERIZED BY: Describing the essential character or quality of an item. As
applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as a sexually oriented
business solely by virtue of showing, selling or renting materials rated NC-17
or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
CITY: Wellsville City, Utah.
DIRECTOR: The city council designee.
EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYMENT: Describe and pertain to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a business on a full time, part time or
contract basis, or independent basis, whether or not the person is denominated
an employee, independent contractor, agent or otherwise, and whether or not the
employee is paid a salary, wage or other compensation by the operator of such
business. "Employee" does not include a person exclusively on the premises for
repair or maintenance of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for the
delivery of goods to the premises.
ESCORT: A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or offers to act as
a companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
ESCORT AGENCY: A person or business association that furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
ESTABLISH AND ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
   C.   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or
   D.   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a sexually oriented
business license.
NUDE MODEL STUDIO: Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity or
seminudity, or displays specified anatomical areas, is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons for consideration.
NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY: The showing, simulated showing or appearance of a
human bare buttock, anus, anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals,
female genitals or vulva, with less than a fully opaque covering; or a female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple; or
human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if completely and
opaquely covered.
PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association or
other legal entity.
PREMISES: The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license.
SEMINUDE OR SEMINUDITY: The showing or simulated showing of a female breast
with less than a fully opaque covering below a horizontal line across the top
of the areola and extending across the width of the breast at that point, or
the showing of the buttocks. This definition includes the lower portion of the
female breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human
female breasts exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard or similar wearing
apparel, provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
SEXUAL DEVICE: Any three-dimensional object designed or marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genital organ or anus or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others. Nothing in this definition
shall be construed to include any device primarily intended for protection
against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER: A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration, physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling when one
of the persons is in a state of nudity or seminudity.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter center.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if fully and opaquely covered; and
   B.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Means and includes:
   A.   Any of the following specified crimes for which less than five (5)
years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of release from
confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is a misdemeanor offense; or for which less than ten (10) years have
elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of release from confinement
imposed for the conviction, whichever is the later date, if the conviction is a
felony offense; or for which less than ten (10) years have elapsed since the
date of conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the
conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are for two (2) or
more misdemeanor offenses occurring within a twenty four (24) month period:
prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of obscene or
pornographic material; distribution of a controlled substance; engaging in
organized criminal activity relating to a sexually oriented business; the sale,
distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual performance by a
child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public lewdness;
indecency with a child; indecent exposure; sexual assault or aggravated sexual
assault; molestation of a child; sexual exploitation of a child; rape; criminal
attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any of the foregoing offenses; or
any similar sex related offenses to those described above under the criminal or
penal code of this state or any other jurisdiction had the predicate acts been
committed in Utah.
   B.   Any attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any of the foregoing
offenses.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus or female breasts, whether covered or uncovered;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, masturbation, oral copulation or sodomy; or
   C.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in subsection A or B of this definition.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Means and
includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities or similar ownership unit that forms an
influential interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar
means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device that
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
3-10-4: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   A.   Adult arcades;
   B.   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
   C.   Adult cabarets;
   D.   Adult motels;
   E.   Adult motion picture theaters;
   F.   Adult theaters;
   G.   Escort agencies;
   H.   Nude model studios; and
   I.   Sexual encounter centers. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-5: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
sexually oriented business in the city without a valid sexually oriented
business license.
   B.   Employee License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person who
operates a sexually oriented business to employ a person to work and/or perform
services on the premises of the sexually oriented business, if such employee is
not in possession of a valid sexually oriented business employee license.
   C.   Application Form: An application for a sexually oriented business
license must be made on a form provided by the city.
   D.   Premises Legal Description And Sketch; Inspections: The application
must be accompanied by a legal description of the premises and a sketch or a
diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a statement of
total floor space occupied by the business. It need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches (±6"). Prior to issuance of a license, the premises must be inspected
and approved by the health department, fire department, building department,
zoning department and police department.
   E.   Information Required To Determine Qualifications: The applicant shall
provide such information (including fingerprints) as requested by the city to
enable the city to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications
established under this chapter. The applicant has an affirmative duty to
supplement an application with new information received subsequent to the date
the application was deemed complete.
   F.   Required Signatures: If a person who wishes to own or operate a
sexually oriented business is an individual, he must sign the application for a
business license as an applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually
oriented business is other than a single individual, each individual who has a
ten percent (10%) or greater interest in the business must sign the application
for a business license as an applicant.
   G.   Information Required With Application Form: Applications for a business
license, whether original or a renewal, must be made by the intended operator
of the enterprise. The following information shall be provided on the
application form:
      1.   The name, street address (and mailing address if different) of the
applicant;
      2.   A recent photograph of the applicant;
      3.   The applicant's driver's license number, social security number,
and/or his/her state or federally issued tax identification number;
      4.   The name under which the establishment is to be operated and a
general description of the services to be provided. If the applicant intends to
operate the sexually oriented business under a name other than that of the
applicant, the fictitious name must be stated, together with documents proving
legal entitlement to the name;
      5.   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted, or is awaiting trial on pending charges, of any specified
criminal activity and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved and the
date, place and jurisdiction of each;
      6.   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
had a previous license under this chapter or other similar ordinance from
another city or county denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and
location of the sexually oriented business for which the business license was
denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation, and whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant
is or has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director, or principal
stockholder of a corporation that is or was licensed under a sexually oriented
business ordinance whose business license has previously been denied, suspended
or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented business
for which the business license was denied, suspended or revoked as well as the
date of denial, suspension or revocation;
      7.   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant holds
any other licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business ordinance from another city or county and, if so, the names and
locations of such other licensed businesses;
      8.   The classification of license for which the applicant is filing;
      9.   The telephone number of the establishment;
      10.   The address and legal description of the premises;
      11.   If the establishment is in operation, the date on which the owner
acquired the establishment for which the business license is sought, and the
date on which the establishment began operations as a sexually oriented
business at the location for which the business license is sought;
      12.   If the establishment is not in operation, the expected startup date
(which shall be expressed in number of days from the date of issuance of the
license). If the expected startup date is to be more than ten (10) days
following the date of issuance of the business license, then a detailed
explanation of the construction, repair or remodeling work or other cause of
the expected delay and a statement of the owner's time schedule and plan for
accomplishing the same.
   H.   Additional Requirements With Application: Each application for a
license shall be accompanied by the following:
      1.   Payment of the application fee;
      2.   If the establishment is a Utah entity, a certified copy of the
articles of incorporation, articles of organization or certificate of
partnership, together with all amendments thereto, or if a foreign entity, a
certified copy of the certificate of authority to transact business in this
state, together with all amendments thereto;
      3.   Proof of the current fee ownership of the premises in the form of a
copy of the recorded deed;
      4.   If the persons identified as the fee owners of the premises are not
also the owners of the establishment, then the lease, purchase contract,
purchase option contract or other documents evidencing the legally enforceable
right of the owners or proposed owners of the establishment to have or obtain
the use and possession of the premises, or portion thereof, that is to be used
for the establishment for the purpose of the operation of the establishment;
      5.   A current certificate and straight line drawing prepared within
thirty (30) days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting
the property lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented
business, established religious institution/synagogue, school, public park or
recreation area, or family oriented entertainment business within one thousand
feet (1,000') of the premises. For purposes of this section, a use shall be
considered existing or established if it is in existence at the time an
application is submitted; and
      6.   Subsections H2 through H5 of this section shall not be required for
a renewal application if the applicant states that the documents previously
furnished the city or director with the original application or previous
renewals thereof remain correct and current.
   I.   Notarized Statement: Every application for a license shall contain a
notarized statement certifying that the applicant has personal knowledge of the
information contained in the application, that the information contained
therein and furnished therewith is true and correct, and the applicant has read
the provisions of this chapter.
   J.   Separate Application And License: A separate application and license
shall be required for each sexually oriented business classification.
   K.   Time For Approval, Denial: The director shall approve or deny issuance
of the license within forty five (45) days of receipt of the completed
application. The director shall issue a license to an applicant unless it is
determined that one or more of the requirements contained in this chapter have
not been met, that the applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to any specified criminal activity, or that any sexually oriented
business in which applicant had an influential interest during the previous
five (5) years has been declared by a court to be a nuisance or ordered to
close.
   L.   Content Of License; Display: The license issued by the director shall
state on its face the name of the person or persons to whom it is granted, the
expiration date, the address of the sexually oriented business, and the
classification for which the license is issued. The license shall be posted in
a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business
so that it may be easily read at any time.
   M.   Certification Of Additional Agencies, Departments Required: The health
department, fire department, building department, police department and zoning
department shall complete their certification that the premises is in
compliance or not in compliance within twenty (20) days of receipt of the
completed application by the director. Such certification shall be promptly
presented to the director.
   N.   Notice Of Applicant Ineligibility: In the event that the director
determines that an applicant is not eligible for a sexually oriented business
license, the applicant shall be given notice in writing of the reasons for the
denial within forty five (45) days of the receipt of the completed application
by the director; provided, that the applicant may request, in writing, at any
time before the notice is issued, that such period be extended for an
additional period of not more than ten (10) days in order to make modifications
necessary to comply with this chapter.
   O.   Appeal Of Denial: An applicant may appeal a denial by the director to
the city council by filing a written notice of appeal with the city within
fifteen (15) days after service of notice upon the applicant of the director's
decision. The notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a memorandum or other
writing setting out fully the grounds for such appeal and all arguments in
support thereof. The director may, within fifteen (15) days of service upon him
of the applicant's memorandum, submit a memorandum in response to the
memorandum filed by the applicant on appeal to the city. After reviewing such
memoranda, as well as the director's written decision, if any, and exhibits
submitted to the director, the city council shall vote either to uphold or
overrule the director's decision. Such vote shall be taken within twenty one
(21) calendar days after the filing of the appeal. However, all parties shall
be required to comply with the director's decision during the pendency of the
appeal.
   P.   Renewal: A license may be annually renewed upon the written application
of the applicant and a finding by the director that the applicant has not been
convicted of any specified criminal activity or committed any act during the
existence of the previous license which would be grounds to deny the initial
license application. The decision whether to renew a license shall be made
within thirty (30) days of the completed application. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-
2007)
3-10-6: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any person to
obtain employment with a sexually oriented business if such person is not in
possession of a valid sexually oriented business employee license issued to
such person by the director pursuant to this chapter, except if the employment
is of limited duration and for the sole purpose of repair and/or maintenance of
machinery, equipment or the premises.
   B.   Information Required To Determine Qualifications: The applicant shall
provide such information (including fingerprints) as requested by the city to
enable the city to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications
established under this chapter. The applicant has an affirmative duty to
supplement an application with new information received subsequent to the date
the application was deemed completed.
   C.   Fee; Form Of Application; Information Required: Each application for an
employee license shall be accompanied by payment of the application fee.
Application forms shall be supplied by the director, and shall include the
following information:
      1.   The applicant's given name, and any other names by which the
applicant is or has been known, including stage names and/or aliases;
      2.   Age, and date and place of birth;
      3.   Height, weight, hair color and eye color;
      4.   Present residence address and telephone number;
      5.   Present business address and telephone number;
      6.   Date, issuing state and number of photo driver's license, or other
state issued identification card information;
      7.   Social security number; and
      8.   Proof that the individual is at least eighteen (18) years old.
   D.   Additional Requirements With Application: Attached to the application
form for a license shall be the following:
      1.   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant's
face, and the applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the police
department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant.
      2.   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant, in this or any other city, county, state or
country, has had any license to do business denied, revoked or suspended, or
had any professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked or
suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation or suspension, the name
under which the license was sought and/or issued, the name of the issuing or
denying jurisdiction, and a detailed description of the reasons for the denial,
revocation or suspension. A copy of any order of denial, revocation or
suspension shall be attached to the application.
      3.   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted, or is awaiting
trial on pending charges, of a specified criminal activity and, if so, the
specified criminal activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
   E.   Notarized Statement: Every application for a license shall contain a
notarized statement certifying that the applicant has personal knowledge of the
information contained in the application, that the information contained
therein and furnished therewith is true and correct, and that the applicant has
read the provisions of this chapter.
   F.   Other Permits, Licenses Nonapplicable: The fact that a person possesses
other types of state or city permits and/or licenses does not exempt him from
the requirement of obtaining a sexually oriented business employee license.
   G.   Referral For Investigation; Issuance: The application shall then be
referred to the appropriate city departments for investigation to be made on
the information contained in the application. The application process shall be
completed within thirty (30) days from the date of the completed application.
After the investigation, the director shall issue an employee license unless it
is determined that one or more of the requirements contained in this chapter
have not been met or that the applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or
nolo contendere to any specified criminal activity.
   H.   Content Of License; Display: The license issued shall state on its face
the name of the person to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the
address of the sexually oriented business. The employee shall keep the license
on his or her person at all times while engaged in employment or performing
services on the premises so that said license may be available for inspection
upon lawful request.
   I.   Renewal: A license may be annually renewed upon the written application
of the applicant and a finding by the director that the applicant has not been
convicted of or pled guilty or nolo contendere to any specified criminal
activity or committed any act during the existence of the previous license
which would be grounds to deny the initial license application. The decision
whether to renew a license shall be made within thirty (30) days of the
completed application. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-7: FEES:
The annual fee for a sexually oriented business license and sexually oriented
business employee license, whether new or a renewal, shall be set by resolution
or ordinance of the city council. These fees are to be used to pay for the cost
of the administration and enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-
2007)
3-10-8: INSPECTION:
An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the police department,
health department, fire department, building department, or other city or state
departments or agencies, to inspect the premises for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with laws at any time it is open for business and occupied by
customers. It shall be unlawful to refuse such an inspection. Inspections shall
be reasonable and on an occasional basis. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-9: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   One Year: Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance.
   B.   Application For Renewal: An application for renewal of an existing
license shall be made at least ninety (90) days before the expiration date. If
an application for renewal is made less than ninety (90) days before the
expiration date, the license will expire as scheduled and remain invalid until
a new license is issued.
   C.   Denial; Term: When the director denies renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
(Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-10: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Suspension For Violation: The city may suspend a license issued under
this chapter if the licensee knowingly violates or allows an employee to
knowingly violate any provision of this chapter. Such suspension shall begin
when the director provides written notice to the licensee of the city's intent
to suspend the license for up to thirty (30) days.
   B.   Revocation For Violation: The city may revoke a license issued under
this chapter if the licensee knowingly violates or allows an employee to
knowingly violate any provision of this chapter and the licensee's license has
been suspended within the previous twelve (12) month period.
   C.   Notice Of Revocation: The director shall provide a written notice of
revocation to the licensee of the city's intent to revoke the license if:
      1.   The licensee has knowingly given false information in the
application for the license;
      2.   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
possession, use or sale of controlled substances or alcoholic beverages on the
premises;
      3.   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
prostitution or gambling on the premises; or
      4.   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
specified sexual activity on the premises.
   D.   Term Of Revocation: When the city council revokes a license, the
revocation shall continue for one year, and the licensee shall not be issued a
sexually oriented business license for one year from the date revocation became
effective. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-11: NO TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall not transfer a license to another, nor shall a licensee
operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-
20-2007)
3-10-12: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business between the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any
day. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-13: ADULT MOTELS:
   A.   Presumption: Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or a
similar commercial enterprise has been rented and vacated two (2) or more times
in a period of less than ten (10) hours creates a rebuttable presumption that
the enterprise is an adult motel.
   B.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for a person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial enterprise that does not
have a sexually oriented business license, to rent or subrent a sleeping room
to a person and, within ten (10) hours from the time the room is rented, to
rent or subrent the same sleeping room again. The terms "rent" and "subrent"
mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-14: ESCORT AGENCIES AND ESCORTS:
It shall be unlawful for an escort agency to employ a person under the age of
eighteen (18) years, or for a person under the age of eighteen (18) to act,
agree to act, or attempt to act as an escort. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-15: NUDE MODEL STUDIOS:
   A.   When Permitted: Nudity is prohibited in a nude model studio. However,
an exception may be granted in the reasonable discretion of the director upon a
finding that the operation is in fact a bona fide art instruction business.
   B.   Employment Of Minor Prohibited: A nude model studio shall not employ
any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   C.   Minors Appearing Nude Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for a person
under the age of eighteen (18) years to appear in a state of nudity in or on
the premises of a nude model studio.
   D.   Nudity Prohibited Within View: It shall be unlawful to appear in a
state of nudity, or knowingly allow another to appear in a state of nudity or
seminudity, in an area of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from
a public right of way.
   E.   Bed, Sofa Or Mattress Prohibited; Exception: A nude model studio shall
not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress in any room on the premises, except
that a sofa may be placed in a reception room open to the public.
   F.   Defense To Prosecution: It is a defense to prosecution under this
chapter that a person appearing in a state of nudity or seminudity did so in a
modeling class operated by either a proprietary school licensed by the state, a
college, junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation, or by a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation. (Ord. 2007-15,
11-20-2007)
3-10-16: PUBLIC NUDITY:
   A.   Nudity Prohibited: It is unlawful for a person to appear live in a
state of nudity in a sexually oriented business. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
   B.   Seminudity Permitted: It is unlawful for a person to appear live in a
state of seminudity, unless the person is an employee who is at least ten feet
(10') from any patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet (2') above
the floor, in a room of at least one thousand (1,000) square feet. (Ord. 2007-
15, 11-20-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
   C.   Gratuity Prohibited: It is unlawful for an employee, while in a state
of seminudity in a sexually oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity
from any patron or customer, or for any patron or customer to pay or give any
gratuity to any such employee.
   D.   Touching Prohibited: It is unlawful for an employee, while in a state
of seminudity in a sexually oriented business, to touch a patron or customer or
the clothing of a patron or customer, or for a patron or customer to touch any
such employee. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-17: EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS AND VIDEOS:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of
less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, a film,
videocassette, or other video reproduction, that depicts specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following
requirements:
   A.   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more operator's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. An operator's station may not
exceed thirty two (32) square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the business license will be conspicuously posted,
if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6"). The director may waive the
foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
   B.   Every application for a license shall contain a statement certifying
that the applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained in the
application, that the information contained therein and furnished therewith is
true and correct, and the applicant has read the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   No alteration in the configuration or location of an operator's station
may be made without the prior approval of the director or his designee.
   D.   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each operator's station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   E.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from an operator's station of the entire area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two (2) or more operator's stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is
permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the operator's stations.
The view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the
operator's station.
   F.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of
any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the view area
specified in subsection E of this section remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to ensure
that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted, as designated in
the license application.
   G.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any time.
   H.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five (5) foot-candles as measured at
the floor level.
   I.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of
any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   J.   No licensee shall allow an opening of any kind to exist between viewing
rooms or booths.
   K.   No person shall make any attempt to make an opening of any kind between
the viewing booths or rooms.
   L.   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall, during each
business day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any
openings or holes exist.
   M.   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all floor
coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no
rugs or carpeting.
   N.   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all wall
surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other porous material shall be used within forty eight
inches (48") of the floor. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-18: EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; LOITERING AND
MONITORING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Operator Duty: The operator of a sexually oriented business shall have
the duty to:
      1.   Post conspicuous signs stating that no loitering is permitted on the
premises;
      2.   Designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of persons
on the premises by visually inspecting the premises at least once every ninety
(90) minutes or inspecting the premises by use of video cameras and monitors;
and
      3.   Provide lighting of the exterior portion of the premises to provide
for visual inspection or video monitoring to prohibit loitering. If used, video
cameras and monitors shall operate continuously whenever the premises are open
for business. Such monitors shall be installed within an operator's station.
   B.   Visibility Outside Premises Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for an
owner or operator of a sexually oriented business to allow the merchandise or
activities of the establishment to be visible from any point outside the
establishment.
   C.   Exterior Representations: It shall be unlawful for the owner or
operator of a sexually oriented business to allow the exterior portion of the
sexually oriented business to have flashing lights, or any words, lettering,
photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner,
except to the extent permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Barriers: No licensee or other person shall erect a fence, wall, or
other barrier which prevents any portion of a parking lot for employees or
customers of the business from being visible from a public right of way.
   E.   Failure To Comply: It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty
under this section to knowingly fail to fulfill that duty. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-
20-2007)
3-10-19: SIGNAGE:
Notwithstanding any other city ordinance, code or regulation to the contrary,
it shall be unlawful for the operator of a sexually oriented business, or any
other person, to erect, construct or maintain any sign for the sexually
oriented business other than one outside sign. The one outside sign shall have
no more than two (2) display surfaces. Each such display surface shall be a
flat plane and shall not contain any flashing lights, shall not exceed twenty
(20) square feet in area, and shall not exceed four feet (4') in height or five
feet (5') in length. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
3-10-20: SALE, USE OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
The sale, use or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of a
sexually oriented business is prohibited. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-21: PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN PROHIBITED; ATTENDANT REQUIRED:
   A.   Presence Of Minors Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to allow a person
who is younger than eighteen (18) years of age to enter or be on the premises
of a sexually oriented business at any time during such sexually oriented
business' regular business hours.
   B.   Attendant Required: An attendant must be stationed at each public
entrance to the sexually oriented business at all times during such sexually
oriented business' regular business hours. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-22: MASSAGES PROHIBITED:
No massage therapy license shall be issued to, or upon the same premises as, or
to an employee or business partner of, a sexually oriented business. (Ord.
2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-23: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any sexually oriented business operating without a valid license is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, and may be summarily abated by closing the
business or may be abated by either criminal or civil action. (Ord. 2007-15,
11-20-2007)
3-10-24: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Specified: It shall be unlawful for a sexually oriented business to
knowingly violate the following regulations or knowingly allow an employee or
any other person to violate the following regulations:
      1.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a customer, employee, or
any other person, to knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented
business, appear in a state of nudity regardless of whether such public nudity
is expressive in nature. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
      2.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a customer, employee, or
any other person, to knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented
business, appear in a seminude condition unless the person is an employee who,
while seminude, remains at least ten feet (10') from any customer and on a
stage at least two feet (2') above the floor in a room of at least one thousand
(1,000) square feet. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
      3.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for an employee who
regularly appears seminude in a sexually oriented business to knowingly or
intentionally touch a customer or the clothing of a customer on the premises.
      4.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell, use
or consume alcoholic beverages on the premises.
   B.   Sign Required: A sign, in a form prescribed by the director,
summarizing the provisions of subsection A of this section shall be posted near
the entrance of a sexually oriented business in a location where it is clearly
visible to patrons and customers upon entry. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-25: LOCATION AND ZONING RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business at any
location within the city not zoned for such business. Sexually oriented
businesses licensed as sexually oriented businesses pursuant to this chapter
shall only be allowed in areas zoned for such use pursuant to title 10, chapter
10 of this code. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-26: EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any sex therapist or similar
individual licensed by the state to provide bona fide sexual therapy or
counseling, licensed medical practitioner, licensed nurse, psychiatrist or
psychologist, nor shall it apply to any educator licensed by the state for
activities in the classroom. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007)
3-10-27: PENALTY:
A person who knowingly violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day a violation is committed, or permitted to
continue, shall constitute a separate offense. Nothing in this section and no
action taken hereunder shall prohibit a criminal or administrative proceeding
as may be authorized by law. (Ord. 2007-15, 11-20-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Created
4-1-2: Chief Of Fire Department
4-1-3: Powers And Duties Of Chief
4-1-4: Employees
4-1-5: Emergency Vehicles
4-1-6: Removal Of Obstructions At Fire
4-1-7: Control Of Persons
4-1-8: Investigation And Fire Report
4-1-9: Right To Enter And Inspect Premises
4-1-10: Persons Present At Fire Subject To Orders
4-1-11: Fire Alarm Systems
4-1-1: CREATED:
There is created a fire department, to be known as the city volunteer fire
department. (1991 Code § 2.24.010, as amended)
4-1-2: CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT:
There is created the position of chief of the fire department. (1991 Code §
2.24.020, as amended)
4-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF:
   A.   Supervision Of Department: The chief shall have responsibility for the
general supervision of the department.
   B.   Special Peace Officer: During a fire, the chief shall have full
authority to take all measures as he shall deem necessary, subject to state
law, to control and extinguish the fire and for that purpose he is made a
special peace officer.
   C.   Report To Governing Body: The chief shall, at least quarterly, report
to the governing body the condition of the fire equipment, the number of fires
and their causes and the estimated loss therefrom, together with such other
information as the governing body may request or as he shall deem appropriate.
   D.   Enforcement: The chief shall strictly enforce all of the provisions of
the ordinances of the city relating to the protection against and prevention of
fire.
   E.   Maintenance Of Equipment: The chief shall maintain the equipment of the
department in good repair and order and ready for use.
   F.   Operational Rules And Regulations: The chief, subject to the approval
of the mayor and governing body, shall establish rules and regulations for the
operation of the department.
   G.   Delegation Of Duties: The chief may delegate his duties to any person
employed by the department, but such delegation shall not relieve the chief of
his responsibility for the performance thereof.
   H.   Fire Investigation: The chief shall cause all fires to be promptly
investigated to determine the cause of the fire and report the cause of the
fire, the time originated and such other information as may be relevant to
prevent other fires. (1991 Code § 2.24.030, as amended)
4-1-4: EMPLOYEES:
The chief may make recommendations to the mayor relating to the employment of
firefighters and such other personnel as may be necessary to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. The chief may employ such additional personnel as
the mayor and governing body may direct or authorize. (1991 Code § 2.24.040, as
amended)
4-1-5: EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Firetrucks are designated authorized emergency vehicles. (1991 Code § 2.24.050,
as amended)
4-1-6: REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS AT FIRE:
The officer in charge at any fire may order the removal or destruction of any
fence, building or structure, or that any utility be closed, cut or removed
when deemed necessary to control, extinguish or prevent the spread of fire.
(1991 Code § 2.24.060, as amended)
4-1-7: CONTROL OF PERSONS:
All persons present at a fire shall obey the orders of any firefighters. (1991
Code § 2.24.070, as amended)
4-1-8: INVESTIGATION AND FIRE REPORT:
The chief, or such other persons as he shall designate, shall, after
extinguishing a fire, make a prompt and thorough investigation of the cause of
the fire, the time the fire began, the amount of loss and insurance, a
description of the affected buildings and premises, and shall secure all other
useful information available, and record the same in a record book kept for
that purpose in the office of the department, and shall report the same to the
governing body at such time as it may direct. (1991 Code § 2.24.080, as
amended)
4-1-9: RIGHT TO ENTER AND INSPECT PREMISES:
The fire chief, or his deputies, upon presentation of proper credentials, shall
have the right to enter upon any premises at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of making inspections in emergency situations, or where consent has
been obtained. (1991 Code § 2.24.090, as amended)
4-1-10: PERSONS PRESENT AT FIRE SUBJECT TO ORDERS:
Every male or female person eighteen (18) years or older present at a fire
shall be subject to the orders of the officer in command and shall render
assistance in the manner directed by the officer in command. (1991 Code §
2.24.100, as amended)
4-1-11: FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS:
It is unlawful for any person to tamper with or remove all or any part of a
fire alarm system, whether public or private. (1991 Code § 2.24.110, as
amended)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Collection Of Garbage
4-2-3: Service Charge
4-2-4: Method Of Payment Of Service Charges
4-2-5: Accumulation Of Garbage Prohibited
4-2-6: Garbage Containers
4-2-7: Closing Of Containers Required
4-2-8: Time And Place Of Pick Up
4-2-9: Disposal Of Community Waste
4-2-10: Burning Of Refuse
4-2-11: Dumping Refuse
4-2-12: Limitations On Dumping
4-2-13: Authority To Adopt Regulations
4-2-14: Permits
4-2-15: Enforcement; Notices And Orders; Hearings
4-2-16: Inspection
4-2-17: Equipment
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter:
COMMERCIAL GARBAGE: Garbage produced in commercial establishments, public or
quasi-public institutions or establishments, including restaurants, hotels,
motels and similar establishments.
COMMUNITY WASTE: Lawn cuttings, clippings from bushes and shrubs, leaves and
trees and tree branches.
CONTAINER OR REGULATION CONTAINER: A type of garbage or trash container of
galvanized metal or other approved material and having a tightfitting lid or
properly and sufficiently treated weather resistant paper bag manufactured
specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection.
GARBAGE: Waste from the preparation, handling, storage, cooking or consumption
of food and food products.
REFUSE: All waste matter, except garbage, attending or resulting from the
occupancy of residences, apartments, hotels or other places of dwelling, and
from the operation of a business. "Refuse" shall not be deemed to include
industrial waste or waste matter resulting from the construction, demolition or
repair of a building or other structure.
RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE: Garbage produced in places of private residence and dining
halls not open to the public. (1991 Code § 8.16.010, as amended)
4-2-2: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE:
   A.   The city or its agent shall collect, remove and dispose of all
residential and commercial garbage, the removal of which is not otherwise
provided for by the establishment or institution as herein provided. All
garbage and refuse shall be collected, removed and disposed of with such
frequency and in such manner as the governing body may from time to time
establish by regulation.
   B.   Except as otherwise expressly permitted by this chapter, no garbage or
refuse shall be moved or hauled away or transported upon the streets or public
ways of the city, except by the city or its agent and except by authorized
persons hauling commercial garbage or refuse as hereinafter provided. It is
declared to be unlawful for any person, except as permitted in this chapter, to
haul or remove garbage or refuse in the city.
   C.   Commercial establishments and public or quasi-public institutions and
establishments creating commercial garbage, may remove commercial garbage
themselves or may employ the services of authorized contractors to remove
commercial garbage. Authorized garbage haulers must apply for and receive
permission to do so from the city recorder. Haulage of refuse must be done in
the manner, at such times and in such vehicles, as may be approved for such
purposes as the governing body may from time to time by regulation provide.
   D.   Nothing contained in this section shall preclude persons from hauling
their own garbage, trash or community waste over the streets and alleys of the
city in vehicles and containers approved by a sanitary inspector or such other
personnel of the city as the governing body may authorize.
   E.   Nothing in this section shall be construed as eliminating the charge
made for garbage service. (1991 Code § 8.16.020, as amended)
4-2-3: SERVICE CHARGE:
   A.   Established: The service charge for garbage collection shall be
established by resolution or ordinance from time to time by the governing body
and shall be in an amount consistent with the amounts set forth in the contract
between the city and the Cache County service area no. 1.
   B.   Applicability: Charges shall apply to all residences and business
establishments whether or not they have also elected to haul their own garbage
or employ the services of authorized garbage haulers. (1991 Code § 8.16.030, as
amended)
4-2-4: METHOD OF PAYMENT OF SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Added To Water Service Charges: The garbage service charges imposed by
this chapter shall be added to the charge made for water furnished through the
water system of the city, and shall be billed and collected in the same manner
as water service charges are billed and collected.
   B.   Other Means Of Collection: In the event that the obligee for the water
service charges and the obligee for the garbage service charges do not
coincide, or in the event that practical economic and administrative reasons do
not make combined billing and collection feasible, in the opinion of the
governing body, the garbage service charges may be collected with such
frequency and in such manner as the governing body shall by regulation provide.
(1991 Code § 8.16.040, as amended)
4-2-5: ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to accumulate garbage or refuse or cause garbage
or refuse to be deposited upon any street or alley or upon any premises in the
city without express permission from the city council. The city council may
permit the feeding or processing of garbage or refuse upon premises properly
equipped and maintained so as to prevent the creation of a nuisance or a hazard
to health, or permit the depositing of ashes and other dry material for filling
purposes at such places as the city council may designate and under such
restrictions as the governing body may by regulation impose. Additionally, the
city council may grant to any person permission for sorting, baling and
marketing trade waste upon premises properly equipped and maintained. (1991
Code § 8.16.050, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
4-2-6: GARBAGE CONTAINERS:
   A.   Required: All garbage and refuse shall be placed in suitable and
sufficient garbage receptacles, either receptacles with tightfitting lids or
properly and sufficiently treated water resistant paper bags manufactured
specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection, or plastic bags
manufactured specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection.
   B.   Size: Containers shall not exceed forty five (45) gallons' capacity for
receiving and holding garbage, market waste or other refuse which may
accumulate. Containers shall have adequate handles to facilitate collection.
   C.   Weight: Filled containers shall not exceed seventy five (75) pounds in
weight unless the collection vehicle is equipped to mechanically empty larger
capacity containers, in which case the maximum size shall be determined by the
mechanical equipment on the collection vehicle. (1991 Code § 8.16.060, as
amended)
4-2-7: CLOSING OF CONTAINERS REQUIRED:
All garbage and market waste must be placed in rainproof and flyproof
receptacles of the type herein required, and the receptacle shall be tightly
closed in such manner as to prevent offensive odors or flies. (1991 Code §
8.16.070, as amended)
4-2-8: TIME AND PLACE OF PICK UP:
   A.   Regulations: All garbage and refuse subject to garbage collection by
the city shall be placed at a pick up point at or near the premises designated
from time to time by regulations adopted by the governing body and at such time
or times as shall be designated by regulations of the governing body.
   B.   Setting Out For Collection: Until otherwise provided by regulation,
garbage and refuse must not be set out upon the street for collection prior to
the evening of the day before collection and must be set out on the day of
collection before the hour of collection designated by regulations of the
governing body.
   C.   Removal: All empty receptacles must be removed from the street as soon
as practicable after being emptied, and in every case, must be removed from the
street the same day they are emptied. Receptacles shall not be permitted to
remain on any street longer than may be necessary for the removal of the
contents. (1991 Code § 8.16.080, as amended)
4-2-9: DISPOSAL OF COMMUNITY WASTE:
   A.   Community waste may be disposed of by residents and business
establishments in vehicles provided by them, subject to regulation by the
governing body as to the places of disposal and as to the type of vehicle used
to avoid spillage upon the public ways of the city, hazards to safety and the
prevention of nuisances.
   B.   The governing body from time to time may provide for the collection and
disposal of such types of city waste as it may decide to collect and haul in
connection with its regular garbage, waste collection and disposal service. In
the event community waste disposal service should require a charge to be made
by the city, the determination of the charge will be made by negotiation with
the residents or business enterprises and the residents or business enterprises
will be given an opportunity to choose from among services offered by persons
other than the city. (1991 Code § 8.16.090)
4-2-10: BURNING OF REFUSE 1 :
It is unlawful for any person to burn garbage, market waste, manure or other
refuse in the open air or in any furnace or stove within the city. (1991 Code §
8.16.100)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 5 of this title and section
  7-4-7 of this code for burning regulations.
4-2-11: DUMPING REFUSE:
It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit or dump garbage, ashes, market
waste, paper boxes, cartons, trade waste, manure or night soil, or any other
refuse, upon any lot within the city, whether such lot is occupied or vacant
and whether such person so placing, depositing or dumping such refuse is the
owner, tenant, occupant or lessor thereof, or has the same under his
jurisdiction and control. (1991 Code § 8.16.110)
4-2-12: LIMITATIONS ON DUMPING:
Dumping waste and garbage shall be permitted only in such places as are
designated by the governing body. Dumping shall be subject to such rules and
regulations as may be formulated by the governing body. (1991 Code § 8.16.120)
4-2-13: AUTHORITY TO ADOPT REGULATIONS:
The governing body may adopt such regulations as in its opinion are necessary
to implement this chapter and its objectives. (1991 Code § 8.16.130)
4-2-14: PERMITS:
It is unlawful for any person who does not possess an unrevoked permit from the
Cache County service area no. 1, in addition to any business license required
by the city, to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse disposal
for compensation in the city. The Cache County service area no. 1 shall issue
permits for such applicants; provided, that such permits shall be limited to
persons having proper equipment and personnel to collect and dispose of refuse
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and that no permit shall be
required of any agency acting under contract with the city. (1991 Code §
8.16.140)
4-2-15: ENFORCEMENT; NOTICES AND ORDERS; HEARINGS:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the Cache County service area no. 1 has
determined that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a
violation of any provision of this chapter, notice of such alleged violation
shall be given to the person or persons responsible therefor, as hereinafter
provided. Such notice shall:
      1.   Be put into writing;
      2.   Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued;
      3.   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
      4.   Be served upon the holder of a permit issued under this chapter or
upon the owner or agent or the occupant of any premises within the city;
provided, that such notice shall be deemed to have been properly served when a
copy thereof has been served personally or in accordance with any other method
authorized or required under the laws of this state for commencement of civil
actions.
   B.   Content Of Notice: Such notice may:
      1.   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
      2.   State that unless conditions or practices described in such notice
which violate this chapter are corrected within reasonable time specified in
such notice, the violator may be punished in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, or a permit which has been issued pursuant to this chapter may be
suspended or revoked.
   C.   Request For Hearing: Any person who is affected by any notice issued in
connection with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter may request,
and shall be granted, a hearing on the matter before the Cache County service
area no. 1, or its designee; provided, that such person shall file, in the
office of the Cache County service area no. 1, a written request for such
hearing and within ten (10) days after the date the notice was served. Upon
receipt of such request, the Cache County service area no. 1 shall set a time
and place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice
thereof. At such hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be
heard. The hearing shall be commenced not later than ten (10) days after the
day on which the request was filed; provided, that upon application of the
petitioner, the Cache County service area no. 1 may postpone the date of the
hearing for a reasonable time beyond such ten (10) day period when, in its
judgment, the petitioner has submitted a good and sufficient reason for such
postponement.
   D.   Decision: After such hearing, the Cache County service area no. 1 shall
sustain, modify, or withdraw the notice, depending upon its findings based on
such hearing as to whether or not the provisions of this chapter and of the
regulations adopted pursuant thereto have been complied with. If the Cache
County service area no. 1 sustains or modifies such notice, it shall be deemed
to be an order. Any notice shall automatically become an order if a written
request for a hearing has not been filed in the office of the Cache County
service area no. 1 within ten (10) days after such notice was served. In the
case of any notice which states that a permit required by this chapter may be
suspended or revoked, the Cache County service area no. 1 may suspend or revoke
such permit if an order is issued and corrective action has not been taken
within the time specified in the notice.
   E.   Record Of Proceedings: The proceedings at such hearing, including the
findings and decision of the Cache County service area no. 1, shall be
summarized, reduced to writing, and entered as a matter of public record in the
office of the Cache County service area no. 1. Such record shall include, also,
a copy of every notice or order issued in connection with the matter.
   F.   Failure To Comply; Hearing: If the corrective action ordered by the
Cache County service area no. 1 under this chapter has not been taken within
five (5) days after such decision or order thereof, the Cache County service
area no. 1 shall give notice that the governing body shall hear the matter.
Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal service or by leaving a copy
at the residence or place of business of the person not complying, with anyone
at such address who is over the age of fourteen (14) years and by mailing a
copy of the notice to the last known address of the person not complying with
the order.
   G.   Hearing; Decision: At the time set for the hearing by the Cache County
service area no. 1, the governing body shall hear the matter and receive
evidence and determine what corrective action is required, if any. The decision
of the governing body shall be in writing and a copy mailed to the person not
complying. (1991 Code § 8.16.150, as amended)
   H.   Penalty: Any person who does not comply with the decision of the
governing body shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, and subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The governing body may order the Cache County service area
no. 1 to take the corrective action required if the person who does not comply
fails to do so, and a court action shall be commenced against such person for
any costs incurred by the city. (1991 Code § 8.16.150, as amended; amd. 2009
Code)
   I.   Emergency Conditions: Whenever the Cache County service area no. 1
finds that an emergency exists involving a serious health hazard which requires
immediate action to protect the public health, it may without notice or hearing
issue a written order reciting the existence of such an emergency and the
conditions violating this chapter which require corrective action to remove
such health hazard. If such corrective action is not taken, the Cache County
service area no. 1 may take the action including the abatement of any nuisance
as may be necessary to protect the public health. Notwithstanding other
provisions of this chapter, such order shall be effective immediately. Any
person to whom such order is directed shall comply therewith immediately, but
upon petition to the governing body shall be afforded a hearing as soon as
possible, but in any case not later than three (3) days after the petition was
filed. After such hearing, depending upon the findings of the governing body as
to whether or not the provisions of this chapter and of the regulations adopted
pursuant hereto have been complied with, the governing body may continue such
order in effect, modify it or revoke it. (1991 Code § 8.16.150)
4-2-16: INSPECTION:
Any authorized employee or agent of Cache County service area no. 1, after
identifying himself, shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon
private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating
conditions relating to the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, and
where necessary, shall obtain a search warrant from a court having
jurisdiction. (1991 Code § 8.16.160)
4-2-17: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   All public or private vehicles used for the collection or disposal of
refuse shall have enclosed bodies or suitable provision for covering the body.
Provision and use of tarpaulin or canvas cover to enclose open bodies of
collection vehicles may be permitted when specifically approved by the Cache
County service area no. 1.
   B.   Vehicles used for the collection or disposal of garbage, or of refuse
containing garbage, shall have watertight, metal bodies of easily cleanable
construction, shall be cleaned at sufficient frequency to prevent nuisance or
insect breeding and shall be maintained in good repair. (1991 Code § 8.16.170)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Effect Of Provisions
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Declaration Of Nuisance
4-3-4: Limitation
4-3-5: Toilet Or Sewer Facilities
4-3-6: Restrictions On Blocking Water
4-3-7: Befouling Waters
4-3-8: Nuisances On Property
4-3-9: Maintenance Of Private Property
4-3-10: Storage Of Personal Property
4-3-11: Public Nuisances
4-3-12: Disposal Of Animal Carcasses
4-3-13: Nuisance Inspector
4-3-14: Hearing
4-3-15: Failure To Comply
4-3-16: Itemized Statement
4-3-17: Failure To Make Payment
4-3-18: Collection By Lawsuit
4-3-19: Criminal Proceeding
4-3-20: Classification Of Offenses
4-3-21: Penalty
4-3-1: EFFECT OF PROVISIONS:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall affect any other provisions of the city
ordinances, rules or regulations which regulate, prohibit or affect nuisances
or public nuisances. (1991 Code § 8.28.240, as amended)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
AUTHOR OF NUISANCE: Where a nuisance exists upon property and is the outgrowth
of the usual, natural or necessary use of the property, the landlord or his
agent, the tenant or his agent, and all other persons having control of the
property on which such nuisance exists, shall be deemed to be the authors
thereof and shall be equally liable and responsible. Where any such nuisance
shall arise from the unusual or unnecessary use of such property or from the
business thereon conducted, then the occupants and all other persons
contributing to the continuance of such nuisance shall be deemed the authors.
NUISANCE: Whatever is dangerous to human life or health and whatever renders
soil, air, water or food impure or unwholesome is declared to be a "nuisance"
and unlawful. It is unlawful for any person, either as an owner, agent or
occupant, to create or aid in creating or contributing to or maintaining a
nuisance. (1991 Code § 8.28.010, as amended)
4-3-3: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Every act or condition made, permitted, allowed or
continued in violation of section
4-3-2 of this chapter, is declared to be a nuisance and may be abated and
punished as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Specific Nuisances: Nuisances include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Befouling water in any spring, stream, well or water source
supplying water for culinary purposes;
      2.   Allowing any privy vault or cesspool, or other individual waste
water disposal system, to become a menace to health or a source of odors to air
or water;
      3.   Permitting any garbage container to remain on the premises when it
has become unclean and offensive;
      4.   Allowing vegetable waste, garbage, litter, filth or refuse of any
nature to accumulate within or upon any private alley, yard or area, except
when it is temporarily deposited for immediate removal;
      5.   Permitting the accumulation of manure in any stable, stall, corral,
feed yard, yard, or in any other building or area in which any animals are
kept;
      6.   Permitting any slaughterhouse, market, meat shop, stable, feed yard,
or other place or building wherein any animals are slaughtered, kept, fed or
sold, to remain unclean or in any state or condition detrimental to health or
creating a nuisance because of odors, or in which flies or rodents breed;
      7.   Discharging or placing any offensive water, liquid waste or refuse
of any kind into any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash, natural
watercourse, ditch, canal, or any vacant lot or which, as the result of
continued discharge, will render the place of discharge offensive or likely to
become so;
      8.   Keeping or collecting any stale or putrid grease or other offensive
matter;
      9.   Having or permitting upon any premises any fly or mosquito producing
condition;
      10.   Keeping any drinking vessel for public use without providing a
method of decontamination between uses;
      11.   Permitting or performing any ablutions in or near any public
drinking fountain;
      12.   Failing to furnish any dwelling house, boarding house or factory,
or other place of employment, with such privy vaults, water closets, sinks or
other facilities as may be required to maintain the same in sanitary condition;
      13.   Neglecting or refusing to discontinue use of, clean out, disinfect,
and fill up all privy vaults and cesspools or other individual wastewater
disposal systems within twenty (20) days after notice from an enforcement
officer or official of the city;
      14.   Permitting any lot or excavation to become the repository of
stagnant water or any decaying or offensive substances;
      15.   Obstructing or tending to obstruct or interfere with or render
dangerous for passage any street or sidewalk, lake, stream, drainage canal or
basin, or any public park without first obtaining the written permission of the
governing body. (1991 Code § 8.28.020, as amended)
4-3-4: LIMITATION:
The types of nuisances stated in section
4-3-3 of this chapter shall be deemed in addition to and in no way a limitation
of the nuisances subject to this chapter. (1991 Code § 8.28.030, as amended)
4-3-5: TOILET OR SEWER FACILITIES:
All toilet or sewer facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with the ordinances of the city. All such facilities that do not
comply with such provisions are declared to be nuisances and are subject to
abatement as herein prescribed. (1991 Code § 8.28.040, as amended)
4-3-6: RESTRICTIONS ON BLOCKING WATER:
   A.   Prohibitions: It is unlawful for any person or persons to permit any
drainage system, canal, ditch, conduit or other watercourse of any kind or
nature, natural or artificial, to become so obstructed as to cause the water to
back up and overflow therefrom, or to become unsanitary.
   B.   Failure To Maintain; Abatement: Maintenance of any such watercourse in
such condition shall constitute a nuisance and the same shall be subject to
abatement. (1991 Code § 8.28.050, as amended)
4-3-7: BEFOULING WATERS:
A person is guilty of a class C misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code, if he: (1991 Code § 8.28.200, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   A.   Constructs or maintains a corral, sheep pen, goat pen, stable, pigpen,
chicken coop, or other offensive yard or outhouse, where the waste of drainage
therefrom shall flow directly into the waters of any stream, well or spring of
water used for domestic purposes;
   B.   Deposits, piles, unloads or leaves any manure heap, offensive rubbish,
or the carcass of any dead animal, where the waste or drainage therefrom will
flow directly into the waters of any stream, well or spring of water used for
domestic purposes;
   C.   Dips or washes sheep in any stream, or constructs, maintains or uses
any pool or dipping vat for dipping or washing sheep in such close proximity to
any stream located within the city or over which the city may exercise its
jurisdiction and used by the inhabitants of the city for domestic purposes as
to make the waters thereof impure or unwholesome;
   D.   Constructs or maintains any corral, yard or vat to be used for the
purpose of shearing or dipping sheep within twelve (12) miles of the city,
where the refuse or filth from the corral or yard would naturally find its way
into any stream of water used by the inhabitants of the city for domestic
purposes; or
   E.   Establishes and maintains any corral, camp or bedding place for the
purpose of herding, holding or keeping any cattle, horses, sheep, goats or
hogs, within seven (7) miles of the city, where the refuse or filth from the
corral, camp or bedding place will naturally find its way into any stream of
water used by the inhabitants of the city for domestic purposes. (1991 Code §
8.28.200, as amended)
4-3-8: NUISANCES ON PROPERTY:
For the purpose of this chapter, the term "nuisance" is defined to mean any
condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which are deleterious or
injurious, noxious or unsightly, which includes, but is not limited to, keeping
or depositing on, or scattering over the premises any of the following:
   A.   Lumber, junk, trash, or debris;
   B.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment, such as furniture,
stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers. (1991 Code § 8.28.060, as
amended)
4-3-9: MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY:
No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person keep or
maintain such premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value
of the other property in the neighborhood in which such premises is located.
(1991 Code § 8.28.070, as amended)
4-3-10: STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Prohibition: Unenclosed storage of old, unused, stripped and junked
machinery, implements, equipment or personal property of any kind which is no
longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured, for a
period of thirty (30) days or more (except in licensed junkyards) within the
city, is declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the public safety. (1991
Code § 8.28.080, as amended)
   B.   Abatement By Owner: The owner, owners, tenants, lessees or occupants of
any lot within the city on which such storage, as specified in subsection A of
this section is made, and also the owner, owners or lessees of the above
described personal property involved in such storage, shall jointly and
severally abate such nuisance by its prompt removal into an area bounded by a
neat appearing, physical and visual barrier fence, hedge or structure at least
six feet (6') high, or otherwise to remove such property from the city. (1991
Code § 8.28.090, as amended)
4-3-11: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   A.   Defined:
      1.   A "public nuisance" is a crime against the public order and economy
of the city, and consists in unlawfully doing any act or omitting to perform
any duty, which act or omission, either:
         a.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or
safety of three (3) or more persons;
         b.   Offends public decency;
         c.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake, stream, canal, or basin, or any public
park, square, street, or highway; or
         d.   In any way renders three (3) or more persons insecure in life or
the use of property.
      2.   An act which affects three (3) or more persons in any of the ways
specified in this subsection is still a nuisance regardless of whether the
extent of annoyance or damage inflicted on individuals is unequal. (1991 Code §
8.28.210, as amended)
   B.   Classification Of Offense: Every person who maintains or commits any
public nuisance, the punishment for which is not otherwise prescribed, or who
wilfully omits to perform any legal duty relating to the removal of a public
nuisance, is guilty of a class C misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 8.28.220, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   C.   Abatement: The city attorney is empowered to institute an action in the
name of the city to abate a public nuisance. (1991 Code § 8.28.250, as amended)
4-3-12: DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL CARCASSES:
Every person who puts the carcass of any dead animal, or the offal from any
slaughter pen, corral or butcher shop into any river, creek, pond, street,
alley, public highway or road in common use or who attempts to destroy it by
fire, within one-fourth (1/4) of a mile of the city, is guilty of a class C
misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 8.28.230, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
4-3-13: NUISANCE INSPECTOR:
   A.   Established: There is established the position of nuisance inspector,
whose duties it shall be to enforce the provisions of this chapter. Until
another person is designated, the city manager shall enforce the provisions of
this chapter. More than one person may be appointed to act as inspector under
this section. (1991 Code § 8.28.100, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Authority Of Inspector: The nuisance inspector is authorized to:
      1.   Perform all functions necessary to enforce the provisions of this
chapter;
      2.   Inspect or cause to be inspected, as often as needed, all buildings,
structures, lots or places for the purpose of determining whether such are in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Duty Of Inspector: If he concludes there exists an objectionable
condition in violation of this chapter, the inspector shall:
      1.   Ascertain the names of the owners and occupants and descriptions of
the premises where such objects and conditions exist;
      2.   Serve notice in writing upon the owner and occupant of such
premises, either personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to
the owner and occupant at their last known post office addresses as disclosed
by the records of the county assessor or as otherwise ascertained, requiring
such owner or occupant, or both, as the case may be, to eradicate or destroy
and remove the same within such time as the inspector may designate; provided,
that any person notified pursuant to this subsection shall be given at least
ten (10) but not more than twenty (20) days, as determined by the inspector
following the date of service of such notice, to correct the objectionable
condition. The notice shall:
         a.   Contain a specific statement of the nature of the violation and
generally describe the premises on which the violation exists;
         b.   Inform the owner, occupant or other person that in the event he
disagrees with the determination of the inspector and does not wish to comply
with the provisions of the notice or that he objects to the factual or legal
basis for the notice, he may request, in writing, a hearing before the
governing body at a time and place to be set by the governing body. A written
application for a hearing shall stay the time within which the person must
conform to the provisions of the notice; (1991 Code § 8.28.100, as amended)
         c.   Inform the person that in the event he fails or neglects to
correct the objectionable condition, the city will correct the objectionable
condition and will collect the costs of so correcting the objectionable
condition by a court action, in which case he will be assessed such costs,
together with reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
      3.   In the event the owner or occupant makes such request for a hearing,
the governing body shall set the time and place for hearing objections and the
city recorder shall notify the owner, occupant or other persons in writing of
the time and place at which they may appear and be heard. The hearing shall not
be heard within less than five (5) days from the date of service or mailing of
the notice of hearing. (1991 Code § 8.28.100, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
4-3-14: HEARING:
   A.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision: At the written request of an owner,
occupant or other person having an interest in property which is the subject of
a notice to remove or abate weeds, objectionable conditions or objects from the
property, the governing body shall conduct a hearing wherein such persons may
present such evidence and argument as is pertinent to the question of whether
or not the removal or abatement of the objects or conditions is properly within
the purview of this chapter. The governing body shall also permit the
presentation of evidence and argument by the inspector and other interested
parties. Thereafter, within not less than five (5) nor more than ten (10) days,
the governing body shall, over the signature of the mayor or such other member
of the governing body as it may designate, render its written decision, a copy
of which shall be mailed to or served upon the owner or other person to whom
the original notice was given by the inspector.
   B.   Determination Of Inspector Upheld: In the event the decision of the
governing body upholds the determination of the inspector, the notice
originally given by the inspector as above provided shall be deemed to be
sufficient to require the owner or occupant to remove or abate the
objectionable objects or conditions, and he shall have up to ten (10) days from
the date of notice of the decision within which to conform thereto, unless
additional time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, is authorized by the
inspector.
   C.   Modified Determination: In the event that the decision of the governing
body either overrules or modifies the determination of the inspector, the
written decision of the governing body shall apprise the owner or occupant of
that fact and set forth the details and extent to which the owner or occupant
must make removal or other abatement of the objectionable objects or
conditions, if any. The owner or occupant shall be required to conform to the
decision of the governing body within ten (10) days after service or mailing of
a copy of the decision, and the decision shall be deemed to be the modified
decision of the inspector unless additional time is authorized by the governing
body. (1991 Code § 8.28.110, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
4-3-15: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
If any owner, occupant or other person having an interest in land described in
such notice or decision to whom the notice was given shall fail or neglect to
conform to the requirements thereof relating to the eradication, destruction or
removal of such weeds, garbage, refuse, objects, or structures, the inspector
shall employ all necessary assistance to cause such objectionable objects or
conditions to be removed or destroyed at the expense of the owner, occupant and
other person having an interest in the land described in the notice or
decision. (Ord. 2011-05, 9-21-2011)
4-3-16: ITEMIZED STATEMENT:
The inspector shall prepare an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in
the removal and destruction of nuisances, and shall mail a copy thereof to the
owner or occupant, or both, or to persons having an interest in the property,
demanding payment within twenty (20) days of the date of mailing. The notice
shall be deemed delivered when mailed by registered mail addressed to the last
known address of the property owner, occupant or persons having an interest in
the property. (1991 Code § 8.28.130, as amended)
4-3-17: FAILURE TO MAKE PAYMENT:
In the event the owner, occupant or person having an interest in the property,
fails to make payment of the amount set forth in the statement to the city
treasurer within the twenty (20) days, the inspector may cause suit to be
brought in an appropriate court of law. (1991 Code § 8.28.140, as amended; amd.
2009 Code)
4-3-18: COLLECTION BY LAWSUIT:
In the event collection of expenses of destruction and removal are pursued
through the courts, the city shall sue for and receive judgment for all of said
expenses of destruction and removal, together with reasonable attorney fees,
interest and court costs, and shall execute upon such judgment in the manner
provided by law. (1991 Code § 8.28.150, as amended)
4-3-19: CRIMINAL PROCEEDING:
The commencement of criminal proceedings for the purpose of imposing penalties
for violations of this chapter shall not be conditioned upon prior issuance of
a notice or the granting to the defendant of an opportunity to abate or remove
the nuisance. The provisions of this chapter relating to notice and abatement
shall be deemed merely alternative and additional methods of securing
conformity to the provisions of this chapter. (1991 Code § 8.28.170, as
amended)
4-3-20: CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES:
Any person, whether as owner, agent or occupant, who creates, aids in creating,
or contributes to a nuisance, or who supports, continues or retains a nuisance,
is guilty of a class C misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 8.28.190, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
4-3-21: PENALTY:
   A.   Any owner, occupant or person having an interest in the property
subject to this chapter who shall fail to comply with the notice or order given
pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor for each
offense, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Compliance by any owner, occupant or person to whom a notice has been
given as provided in this chapter shall not be admissible in any criminal
proceeding brought pursuant to this section. (1991 Code § 8.28.180, as amended;
amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 4
WEED ABATEMENT
SECTION:
4-4-1: Weeds Defined
4-4-2: Standards Of Weed Control
4-4-3: Real Property Kept Clean
4-4-1: WEEDS DEFINED:
"Weeds" means and includes any vegetation commonly referred to as a weed, or
which has been designated a noxious weed by the Utah commissioner of
agriculture. (1991 Code § 8.32.010, as amended)
4-4-2: STANDARDS OF WEED CONTROL:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: It is declared that the weeds stated in section
4-4-1 of this chapter constitute a nuisance when they create a fire hazard, a
source of contamination, or pollution of the water, air or property, a danger
to health, a breeding place or habitation for insects or rodents or other forms
of life deleterious to humans, or are unsightly or deleterious to their
surroundings.
   B.   Removal Of Cut Weeds: The cut weeds shall be removed from the premises
within seventy two (72) hours after cutting. (1991 Code § 8.32.030, as amended)
4-4-3: REAL PROPERTY KEPT CLEAN:
It is a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person owning or occupying real property to allow
weeds to grow higher on such property than is permitted by this chapter, or not
to remove from such property any cuttings of such weeds or any refuse,
unsightly or deleterious objects after having been given notice from the city
as provided in chapter 3 of this title. (1991 Code § 8.32.020, as amended; amd.
2009 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BURNING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Burning At Community Waste Sites
4-5-2: Prohibited Burning Of Refuse
4-5-3: Permissible Burning Without Permit
4-5-4: Permissible Burning Requiring Permit
4-5-5: Burning On State Division Of Wildlife Resources Lands
4-5-6: Unattended And Uncontrolled Fires Prohibited
4-5-7: Issuance Of Permits
4-5-8: Enforcement
4-5-9: Penalty
4-5-1: BURNING AT COMMUNITY WASTE SITES:
No burning shall be done at sites used for the disposal of community trash,
garbage or other waste, except when authorized for a specific period of time
and subject to specific conditions as approved by the Utah air conservation
act, Utah Code Annotated section
19-2-101 et seq. (1991 Code § 8.08.010, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
4-5-2: PROHIBITED BURNING OF REFUSE 1 :
No person shall burn any trash, garbage or other waste, nor conduct any salvage
operations in or at any open fire site, except as provided by this chapter.
(1991 Code § 8.08.020, as amended)
 
Notes
  1. See also section
1 4-2-10 of this title and section
  7-4-7 of this code for burning regulations.
4-5-3: PERMISSIBLE BURNING WITHOUT PERMIT:
   A.   Types Permitted: Unless prohibited by state statutes or other
regulations, other city ordinances, applicable declarations of closed fire
seasons, or the order of a law enforcement officer, the fire chief or his duly
authorized agent, the following types of burning are permitted without a
permit:
      1.   Fires in outdoor grills, fireplaces or similar devices for the
primary purpose of preparing food, provided the devices are not used for the
burning of refuse, trash, garbage or other waste in areas where there is a
public or duly licensed disposal service available;
      2.   Campfires and other recreational fires; provided, that such fires
are attended and under the control of a responsible person; and further
provided, that no such fire shall be permitted during any closed fire season as
declared by the fire chief, notice of which has been published once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city;
      3.   Fires in indoor fireplaces or wood or coal stoves;
      4.   Burning on the premises of combustible household wastes generated by
occupants of dwellings of four (4) family units or less in those areas only
where no public or duly licensed disposal service is available.
   B.   Fence Lines, Cultivated Land, Ditches: A burning permit is not required
for the burning of fence lines or cultivated lands, canals or irrigation
ditches where the burning will not pose a threat to forest, range or watershed
lands, provided due care is used in the control of the burning and that the
individual notifies the nearest fire department of the approximate time the
burning will occur. (1991 Code § 8.08.030, as amended)
4-5-4: PERMISSIBLE BURNING REQUIRING PERMIT:
Unless prohibited by state statutes or regulations, other city ordinances,
applicable declarations of closed fire seasons, or the order of a law
enforcement officer, the fire chief or his duly authorized agent, the following
types of burning are permitted; provided, that a city permit has first been
obtained:
   A.   The burning of prunings from trees, bushes and plants, or of dead or
diseased trees, bushes and plants, including stubble, incidental to
horticultural or agricultural operations;
   B.   The controlled heating of orchards or other crops to minimize damage
from freezing temperatures; provided, that the emissions from such heating
shall not violate any minimum standards established by the state department of
health;
   C.   Open burning of materials or structures when conducted under the direct
control and supervision of the fire chief;
   D.   Fires for firefighting training purposes when conducted under the
direct control and supervision of the fire chief;
   E.   Open burning at an approved site of hazardous materials for which there
is no practical or reasonable alternate method of disposal; provided, that such
burning shall be under the supervision of the fire chief and in accordance with
state law;
   F.   Other open burning for special purposes or under unique circumstances
when approved by the fire chief and/or the county health department following a
formal request therefor;
   G.   Fires on any city property, including roads, rights of way, ditchbanks,
river bottom lands, wildlands, or other areas of city domain. (1991 Code §
8.08.040, as amended)
4-5-5: BURNING ON STATE DIVISION OF WILDLIFE RESOURCES LANDS:
The consent of the state division of wildlife resources shall be required for
any fires on any property leased, owned or controlled by that division as
wildlands or wildlife habitats. (1991 Code § 8.08.050, as amended)
4-5-6: UNATTENDED AND UNCONTROLLED FIRES PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to leave any fire unattended, whether on
public or private property.
   B.   A fire shall be deemed "unattended" when any flame, live coals or
embers remain and the person or persons responsible for the fire have left the
proximity of the fire either in distance or time that would preclude prompt
suppression action by said person or persons.
   C.   Any fire on private or public property burning uncontrolled and without
proper and adequate action being taken to prevent its spread is declared a
public nuisance.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or commit any public
nuisance. (1991 Code § 8.08.060, as amended)
4-5-7: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
   A.   Authorized: City permits shall be issued by the fire chief who shall be
authorized to determine the appropriate application process and forms for the
issuance of such permits.
   B.   Oral Approval; Conditions: The fire chief or his duly authorized agent
is authorized to grant a permit orally to an applicant; provided, that the fire
chief makes and maintains a written record of the permit, including the name of
the applicants, the burning site, the nature, including time and date of the
proposed burning, and the time and date of the granting of the permit.
   C.   Fees For Permit: The city council may, at its discretion, establish
fees by resolution or ordinance for permits. Until such resolution or ordinance
is adopted, no fees shall be assessed.
   D.   Suspension Of Permit: Whenever there is probable cause to believe that
there has been a violation of the provisions of this chapter or state law as to
any fire or if circumstances give reasonable concern for the safety of persons
or property, the fire chief may, upon notice to any person having a permit,
temporarily suspend such permit pending a hearing before the city council;
provided, that:
      1.   The city council shall hold a review hearing, due notice of which
has been given to the permittee and the owners of any property affected or
likely to be affected by the affirmation, revocation or cancellation of any
permit;
      2.   At the hearing, the city council, upon formal findings of fact,
orders that the permit be modified, revoked or suspended and specifies the
reasons therefor in writing to the permittee and to the fire chief. (1991 Code
§ 8.08.070, as amended)
4-5-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Responsibility: The responsibility for the enforcement of this chapter
shall be primarily in the fire chief, or his duly authorized agents or
deputies, and also in the county sheriff, or his duly authorized deputies, in
conjunction with the fire chief.
   B.   Authorized Action: If there is reason to believe that any fire presents
or is likely to present a danger to persons or property, the above designated
officers or deputies shall have the authority to require the immediate
suppression or prohibition of such burning pending further action by the fire
chief or city council, as the case may be. (1991 Code § 8.08.080, as amended)
4-5-9: PENALTY:
Any person who violates or fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter
shall, for each day for each violation or noncompliance, be guilty of a
separate class B misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 8.08.090, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 6
LITTER; HANDBILLS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Handbills And Posters; Restricted Activity
4-6-3: Litter Regulations
4-6-4: Handbill Regulations
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter:
AUTHORIZED RECEPTACLE: A public or private litter storage and collection
receptacle.
COMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter or literature:
   A.   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
   B.   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest in sales thereof;
   C.   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit. However, the terms of this
clause shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is
taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind, when either of the
same is held, given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of
information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good
morals, public peace, safety and good order; provided, that nothing contained
in this clause shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place
of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind without
a license, where such license is or may be required by any law of this state,
or under any ordinance of the city; or
   D.   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
GARBAGE: Waste from the preparation, cooking or consumption of food, condemned
food products and all refuse and waste from the handling, storage, preparation
and sale of produce. Garbage originates primarily in kitchens, stores, markets,
restaurants, hotels and other places where food is handled, stored, sold,
cooked and consumed.
LITTER: "Garbage", "refuse" and "rubbish", as defined herein, and all other
waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to
create a danger to public health, safety, welfare or appearance of the city.
NEWSPAPER: Any newspaper of general or local circulation or any periodical or
current magazine regularly published with not less than four (4) issues per
year and sold to the public.
NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the definitions of a "commercial handbill" or
"newspaper".
PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the city, owned or used by the city.
REFUSE: Putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals and solid
market and industrial wastes.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, such as paper, wrapping, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans,
yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
VEHICLE: Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively on
stationary rails or tracks. (1991 Code § 8.24.010, as amended)
4-6-2: HANDBILLS AND POSTERS; RESTRICTED ACTIVITY:
No person or business shall post, stick, stamp, paint or otherwise affix, or
cause the same to be done by any person, any notice, placard, bill, card,
poster, advertisement or other paper or device calculated to attract the
attention of the public, or upon any sidewalk, curb or any other portion or
part of any public way or public place or any lamppost, electric light,
telegraph, telephone or railway structure, hydrant, shade tree or tree box, or
upon the columns, trusses, girders, railings, gates or other parts of any
bridge or other public structure or building, or upon any pole, box or fixture
of the fire alarm or police telegraph system, except such as may be authorized
or required by the laws of the United States or state, and the ordinances of
the city. (1991 Code § 8.24.190, as amended)
4-6-3: LITTER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Public Places: No person shall throw or deposit litter in or on any
street, sidewalk or other public place except:
      1.   In authorized receptacles for collection or in official city garbage
dumps; or
      2.   For collection as authorized by the governing body. (1991 Code §
8.24.020, as amended)
   B.   Placement In Receptacles: Persons placing litter in authorized
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements on any street, sidewalk or other public place or on
private property. (1991 Code § 8.24.030, as amended)
   C.   Sweeping Into Gutters Prohibited: No person shall sweep into or deposit
in any gutter, street or other public place the accumulation of litter from any
building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons
owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises
free of litter. (1991 Code § 8.24.040, as amended)
   D.   Merchants' Duty To Keep Sidewalks Clear: No person owning or occupying
a place of business shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any
public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of
business shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter. (1991 Code § 8.24.050, as amended)
   E.   Thrown By Person In Vehicle: No person, while a driver or passenger in
a vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter on any street or other public place,
or on private property. (1991 Code § 8.24.060, as amended)
   F.   Loads Causing Litter: No person shall drive or move any truck or other
vehicle unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited on any street, alley or other
public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any
kind. (1991 Code § 8.24.070, as amended)
   G.   Parks: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park, except in
authorized receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented
from being carried or deposited by the elements on any part of the park or on
any street or other public place. Where authorized receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided
herein. (1991 Code § 8.24.080, as amended)
   H.   Lakes And Fountains: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any
fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay or any other body of water in a park or
elsewhere. (1991 Code § 8.24.090, as amended)
   I.   Occupied Private Property: No person shall throw or deposit litter on
any occupied private property, whether owned by such person or not, except that
the owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements on any street,
sidewalk or other public place or on any private property. (1991 Code §
8.24.170, as amended)
   J.   Vacant Lots: No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or
vacant private property, whether or not owned by such person. (1991 Code §
8.24.180, as amended)
4-6-4: HANDBILL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Throwing Or Distributing In Public Places; Penalty: No person shall
throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any
sidewalk, street or other public place. Unless otherwise authorized by the
governing body, it is an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to hand out, distribute or sell any
commercial handbill in any public place; provided, however, that it shall not
be unlawful on any sidewalk, street or other public place for any person to
hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any
noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it. (1991 Code §
8.24.100, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Placing On Vehicles: Unless otherwise authorized by the governing body,
no person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or
on any vehicle; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful in any public
place for a person to hand out or distribute without charge to the receiver
thereof a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to
accept it. (1991 Code § 8.24.110, as amended)
   C.   Depositing On Uninhabited Or Vacant Premises: No person shall throw or
deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any private premises
which is temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant. (1991 Code §
8.24.120, as amended)
   D.   Prohibiting Distribution Where Properly Posted: No person shall throw,
deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill on any private
premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do so or if there is placed on
said premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof a sign being
the words "no trespassing", "no peddlers or agents", "no advertisements", or
any similar notice, indicating in any manner that the occupants of the premises
do not desire to be molested or to have their right of privacy disturbed or to
have any such handbills left on such premises. (1991 Code § 8.24.130, as
amended)
   E.   Distributing At Inhabited Private Premises: No person shall throw,
deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on private
premises which are inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any such
handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person then present in or on
such private premises. However, in case of inhabited private premises which are
not posted, as provided in this section, such person, unless requested by
anyone on such premises not to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in
or on such inhabited private premises if such handbill is so placed or
deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted
about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places, and except
that mailboxes may not be so used when prohibited by federal postal law or
regulations. (1991 Code § 8.24.140, as amended)
   F.   Exception For Mail And Newspapers: The provisions of this chapter shall
not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers,
except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner so
as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements on any street,
sidewalk or other public place or on private property. (1991 Code § 8.24.150,
as amended)
   G.   Posting Notice Prohibited: No person shall post or affix any notice,
poster or other paper or device, calculated to attract the attention of the
public, to any lamppost, public utility pole or shade tree, or on any public
structure or building, except as may be authorized or required by law. (1991
Code § 8.24.160, as amended)
CHAPTER 7
HEALTH REGULATIONS GENERALLY
SECTION:
4-7-1: Unwholesome Food
4-7-2: Vacating Premises
4-7-3: Discharge Of Sewage Pollution
4-7-4: Inadequate Plumbing
4-7-5: Distribution Of Pills And Medicines
4-7-1: UNWHOLESOME FOOD:
It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to sell or offer for sale any unwholesome
food or beverage which has been condemned by any government food inspector.
(1991 Code § 8.36.010, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
4-7-2: VACATING PREMISES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, upon vacating or moving from any
dwelling, storeroom or other building, to fail to remove all garbage, rubbish,
or ashes from such building or premises and the grounds appurtenant thereto, or
to fail to place the same in a thoroughly sanitary condition within twenty four
(24) hours after the premises are vacated.
   B.   In situations where rental property is so vacated, the owner of the
property shall be concurrently responsible with the tenant thereof for
compliance with this section. (1991 Code § 8.36.020, as amended)
4-7-3: DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE POLLUTION:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to discharge or permit the
discharge of any sewage or filth from any premises into and upon any public
highway, stream, watercourse or public place, or into any drain, cesspool or
private wastewater disposal system which does not conform to standards
established by the state division of health or by the city.
   B.   Sewer Connection 1 : The health director may order a connection for
sewage disposal to be made with the public sewer system provided by the city if
such is available; provided, that the public sewer system is within three
hundred feet (300') of the premises.
   C.   Water Protection: The health director shall use all due measures to
prevent the fouling of any streams, watercourses, reservoirs, or any source
furnishing water to any of the inhabitants of the city. (1991 Code § 8.36.030,
as amended)
 
Notes
  1. See also section
1 8-1E-13 and subsections
  8-3-2D, 11-5-7C1 and 11-5-7D of this code for 300 foot connection
  requirements.
4-7-4: INADEQUATE PLUMBING:
The health director shall have power to require the prompt repair of all leaks
or other defects in plumbing throughout the city. He shall have power to
condemn and abate all plumbing which is deficient under the plumbing
ordinances. When, in the opinion of the health officer, a change in occupants,
type of business or other cause requires changes in plumbing, he shall have the
power to compel the installation of an increased number of plumbing fixtures
and a change in their type or capacity, and to make such other alterations or
increases as may be necessary for the health and safety of the occupants of the
building and of the public generally. (1991 Code § 8.36.040, as amended)
4-7-5: DISTRIBUTION OF PILLS AND MEDICINES:
It is unlawful for any person to distribute any samples, packages, parcels,
boxes, bottles or other quantity of any pills, medicines or any other material
of medicinal or alleged medicinal character, or purporting to be a curative
agent, or any article harmful to a human being by handing, giving or furnishing
the same to any person in parks, streets, alleys or the thoroughfares, or by
leaving, casting or depositing the same in yards or upon the premises of any
residence or other private grounds, or upon or about school buildings or
grounds within the city limits. (1991 Code § 8.36.050, as amended)
CHAPTER 8
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS CLEANUP
SECTION:
4-8-1: Hazardous Material Defined
4-8-2: Cleanup By City
4-8-3: Supervision Of Cleanup
4-8-4: Costs Designated; Recovery
4-8-1: HAZARDOUS MATERIAL DEFINED:
For purposes of this chapter, "hazardous material" means any material that,
because of its quantity, concentration or physical or chemical characteristics,
poses a significant present or potential hazard to human health and safety or
to the environment if released into the workplace or the environment. (1991
Code § 8.40.010, as amended)
4-8-2: CLEANUP BY CITY:
The city is authorized, but not required, to clean up or abate the effects of
any hazardous material unlawfully released, discharged or deposited upon or
into any property or facilities within the city. The following described
persons shall be jointly and severally liable to the city for the payment of
all costs incurred by the city as a result of such cleanup or abatement
activity:
   A.   The person or persons whose negligent or wilful act or omission
proximately caused or contributed to such release, discharge or deposit;
   B.   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
hazardous substance or waste at the time of such release, discharge or deposit,
without regard to fault or proximate cause;
   C.   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
container which held such hazardous waste or substance at the time of or
immediately prior to such release, discharge or deposit, without regard to
fault or proximate cause; and
   D.   The person or persons who owned or controlled the land on which the
hazardous material was deposited or from which the hazardous material was
released or discharged. (1991 Code § 8.40.020, as amended)
4-8-3: SUPERVISION OF CLEANUP:
In the event that any person undertakes, either voluntarily or upon order of a
city official, to clean up or abate the effects of any hazardous substance or
waste unlawfully released, discharged or deposited upon or into any property or
facilities within the city, the city may take such action as is necessary to
supervise or verify the adequacy of the cleanup or abatement. The persons
described in section
4-8-2 of this chapter shall be liable to the city for all costs incurred as a
result of such supervision or verification. (1991 Code § 8.40.030, as amended)
4-8-4: COSTS DESIGNATED; RECOVERY:
   A.   For purposes of this chapter, costs incurred by the city shall include,
but shall not necessarily be limited to, the following: actual labor costs of
city personnel, including benefits and administrative overhead; cost of
equipment operation; cost of any contract labor and materials.
   B.   The authority to recover costs under this section shall not include
actual fire suppression services which are normally or usually provided by the
fire department. (1991 Code § 8.40.040, as amended)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Established
5-1-2: Chief Of Police
5-1-3: Powers And Duties
5-1-4: Register Of Arrest
5-1-5: Receipts For Property Taken From Persons Arrested
5-1-6: Disposition Of Stolen Property
5-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is established a regularly constituted police force, to be known as the
police department, which shall consist of a chief of police and such other
police officers as shall be employed by the city. Until further action of the
city council, the services of the police department shall be provided by the
Cache County sheriff's office, by contract with the city. (1991 Code §
2.20.010, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
5-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
The powers of the chief of police shall be as set out in Utah Code Annotated
sections 10-3-913 through 10-9-922. In addition, he shall:
   A.   Organize, supervise and be responsible for all the activities of the
police department, and shall define and assign the duties of the different
police officers;
   B.   When required, attend meetings of the governing body to consult with
and advise them on matters of public safety. He shall execute all lawful orders
of the mayor and governing body and see that all orders and judgments of the
justice of the peace are carried out. (1991 Code § 2.20.020, as amended; amd.
2009 Code)
5-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The chief of police and all police officers of the city shall have the
following powers and duties, in addition to those that may be assigned to them
as provided in this chapter:
   A.   To suppress riots, disturbances and breaches of the peace, and to
apprehend all persons committing any offense against the laws of the state or
the ordinances of the city;
   B.   To execute and serve all warrants, processes, commitments and writs
whatsoever issued by the justice of the peace;
   C.   To preserve the public peace, prevent crime, detect and arrest
offenders, protect persons and property, remove nuisances existing in the
public streets, roads, highways and other public places, enforce every law
relating to the suppression of offenses, render such assistance in the
collection of licenses as may be required by the license collector and perform
all duties enjoined upon them by law and ordinance. (1991 Code § 2.20.030, as
amended)
5-1-4: REGISTER OF ARREST:
The chief of police shall provide and cause to be kept a register of arrest.
Upon such register shall be entered a statement showing the date of such
arrest, the name of the person arrested, the name of the arresting officer, the
offense charged and a description of any property found upon the person
arrested. (1991 Code § 2.20.040, as amended)
5-1-5: RECEIPTS FOR PROPERTY TAKEN FROM PERSONS ARRESTED:
   A.   Triplicate Receipts: When money or other property is taken from a
person arrested upon a charge of a public offense, the officer taking it must
at the time issue triplicate receipts therefor specifying particularly the
amount of money or kind of property taken. One of the receipts he must deliver
to the person arrested. Another he must forthwith file with the clerk of the
court to which the complaint and other papers in the case are required by law
to be sent. The third receipt must be sent at once to the office of the police
department.
   B.   Register Of Property: The chief of police must enter or cause to be
entered in a suitable book a description of every article of property alleged
to be stolen or embezzled and brought into his office or taken from the person
of the prisoner and must attach a number to each article and make a
corresponding entry thereof. (1991 Code § 2.20.050, as amended)
5-1-6: DISPOSITION OF STOLEN PROPERTY:
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to keep all lost or stolen property
that comes into the possession of the police department or any of its members.
He shall make all reasonable efforts to discover the owners thereof. (1991 Code
§ 2.20.060, as amended)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER AND ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Office Created; Badges And Other Identification
5-2A-2: Duties Of Animal Control Officer
5-2A-3: Interference With Officer Prohibited
5-2A-4: Fees Paid To Animal Control Officer
5-2A-5: Lawful To Go On Premises
5-2A-1: OFFICE CREATED; BADGES AND OTHER IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   The position of animal control officer is created. (1991 Code §
6.04.010, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   The city council member in charge of animal control within the city is
empowered to make a determination as to appropriate badges, uniforms, insignia,
decals for motor vehicles and/or other forms of identification to be issued to
and used by the animal control officer and all other animal control officers
within the city in order to ensure such individuals can properly identify
themselves as city employees with the animal control department and in order to
protect the city residents from unauthorized individuals. To the extent
possible, such badges and other identifying items shall be serialized, or
otherwise labeled, with proper records being kept of all items issued, the date
of issue, the name and address of the individual to whom issued and the date of
return. Any person receiving such items shall return the same to the
appropriate city official immediately upon termination of employment. (1991
Code § 6.04.010, as amended)
5-2A-2: DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
The animal control officer shall perform the following duties:
   A.   Carry out and enforce the provisions of this chapter;
   B.   Take into his possession and impound all strays running at large and
dispose of the same as provided in this chapter;
   C.   Enforce the licensing and control of all dogs within the city as
provided in article C of this chapter;
   D.   File complaints in the courts against any person, firm or corporation
failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter and obtain licenses when
required thereunder;
   E.   Capture and secure all dogs found running at large contrary to the
provisions of this chapter and impound such dogs;
   F.   Provide for a sufficient pound in which all animals duly committed to
his charge or otherwise impounded by him shall be maintained;
   G.   Enter a description thereof in records kept for that purpose stating
the kind of animal, the circumstance under which received or impounded, and a
description thereof sufficient to provide identification, the costs expended
for the maintenance of the animal and amounts received arising out of
maintenance or sale of animals. (1991 Code § 6.04.020, as amended)
5-2A-3: INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICER PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to interfere, molest, hinder or obstruct the
animal control officer or any of his authorized representatives in the
discharge of their duties as herein prescribed. (1991 Code § 6.04.030, as
amended)
5-2A-4: FEES PAID TO ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
The animal control officer shall charge, and the owners of animals taken into
his possession for impound, disposal or other services shall pay, such fees and
charges for services performed by the pound or animal control officer as the
governing body shall establish from time to time by resolution or ordinance.
All fees received by the animal control officer shall be paid over to the city
treasurer. (1991 Code § 6.04.040, as amended)
5-2A-5: LAWFUL TO GO ON PREMISES:
In the enforcement of any provision of this chapter any police officer and the
animal control officer or his deputies are authorized to enter the premises of
any person or entity to take possession of any fierce, stray, dangerous or
vicious dog or other animal, dogs or other animals at large, or dogs or other
animals which have committed an act prohibited by city ordinance, when in fresh
pursuit of such dog or other animal at the time the dog or other animal goes
onto private property, whether registered or unregistered, and as otherwise
provided in this chapter and by law. (1991 Code § 6.04.050, as amended)
ARTICLE B. ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2B-1: Driving Animals On Streets
5-2B-2: Animals At Large
5-2B-3: Abandonment
5-2B-4: Trespassing Animals And Fowl
5-2B-5: Killing Or Poisoning Animals Prohibited
5-2B-6: Dead Animals
5-2B-7: Diseased Animals
5-2B-8: Rabies Control
5-2B-9: Unlawful Acts
5-2B-10: Wild, Fierce, Dangerous Or Vicious Animals
5-2B-1: DRIVING ANIMALS ON STREETS:
   A.   Permit Required: Every person who drives any herd of sheep or band of
horses, cattle or other animals upon any public street or highway without first
obtaining a permit from the animal control officer to do so is guilty of an
infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Driving Livestock Requires Permission: No person shall drive livestock
through the city upon streets designated for that purpose except upon
permission and according to the direction of the chief of police. (1991 Code §
6.08.010, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
5-2B-2: ANIMALS AT LARGE:
No cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats or swine shall be allowed to run at
large or to be herded, or led, or ridden, picketed, or staked out upon any
street, sidewalk or other public place within the limits of the city, and all
such animals so found may be impounded. Nothing contained in this section shall
be so construed as to prevent any person from driving cows, horses, mules,
sheep or other animals from outside the city limits to any enclosure within the
city limits, or from any enclosure in the city to a place outside the city or
from one enclosure to another within the limits of the city. (1991 Code §
6.08.020, as amended)
5-2B-3: ABANDONMENT:
It is unlawful for any person to abandon or turn out at large any sick,
diseased or disabled animal, but such animal shall, when rendered useless by
reason of sickness or other disability, be destroyed by the owner thereof and
its carcass disposed of in such manner as to create no nuisance or hazard to
health. (1991 Code § 6.08.030, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
5-2B-4: TRESPASSING ANIMALS AND FOWL:
It is unlawful for any owner or caretaker of any domestic fowl or animal to
permit such fowl or animal to trespass upon the premises of another person.
(1991 Code § 6.08.040, as amended)
5-2B-5: KILLING OR POISONING ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person wilfully to kill any domestic animal, or to
administer poison to any such animal or to expose any poisonous substance with
the intent that it shall be taken by any such animal. (1991 Code § 6.08.050, as
amended)
5-2B-6: DEAD ANIMALS:
The owner of any animal or fowl that has died or been killed shall remove or
bury the carcass of such animal within ten (10) hours after its death;
provided, that no horse, cow, ox or other animal shall be buried within the
closely inhabited portions of the city. A violation of this section is a class
C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 6.08.060, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
5-2B-7: DISEASED ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibition: It is a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to bring into the city for sale or have in
his possession with intent to sell or offer for sale, any animal which has a
communicable disease or which has been exposed to or which is liable to carry
infection from a communicable disease. (1991 Code § 6.08.070, as amended; amd.
2009 Code)
   B.   Sale Of Diseased Animals: It is a class C misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to bring into the city for sale or to sell,
or offer for sale any cattle, sheep, swine, fish, game, fowl, or poultry which
is diseased, unsound and unwholesome, or which for any other reason is unfit
for human food. (1991 Code § 6.08.080, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
5-2B-8: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Reporting Of Rabid Animals: Anyone having knowledge of the whereabouts
of an animal known to have or suspected of having rabies shall report the fact
immediately to the animal control officer. The animal control officer shall
likewise be notified of any person or animal bitten by a rabid or suspected
rabid animal. (1991 Code § 6.08.090, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Biting Animal Quarantined For Observation: Any dog or other animal of a
species subject to rabies which is known to have bitten or injured any person
so as to cause an abrasion of the skin shall be placed in confinement under the
observation of a veterinary hospital or the city pound, and shall not be killed
or released until at least fourteen (14) days after the biting or injury has
occurred in order to determine whether or not the animal has rabies. If the
animal dies or has been killed, its head shall be removed and immediately taken
to the state health laboratory to be examined for rabies. (1991 Code §
6.08.100, as amended)
   C.   Rabies Contacts Quarantined: Any animal of a species subject to rabies
which has been bitten by a known rabid animal or has been in intimate contact
with a rabid animal shall be isolated in a suitable place approved by the
animal control officer for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days or
destroyed. (1991 Code § 6.08.110, as amended)
5-2B-9: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork, torture, cruelly
beat, mutilate, or needlessly kill, or carry or transport in any vehicle or
other conveyance in a cruel and inhumane manner, any animal or cause any of
these acts to be done;
   B.   Fail to provide any animal in his charge or custody with necessary
sustenance, drink and protection from the elements or cause any of these acts
to be done;
   C.   Maintain any place where fowl or any animals are suffered to fight upon
exhibition or for sport upon any wager;
   D.   Intentionally exhibit any stud, horse or bull or other animal
indecently, or let any male animal to any female animal for the purpose of
providing entertainment or viewing to any person. (1991 Code § 6.08.120, as
amended)
5-2B-10: WILD, FIERCE, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this chapter and the articles
contained herein:
    VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal, other than a dog as restricted in section
5-2C-10 of this chapter, which is dangerously aggressive, including, but not
limited to, any animal which has bitten or in any other manner attacked any
person or animal.
   WILD ANIMAL: Any animal of a species that in its natural life is wild. Those
animals, however domesticated, shall include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Alligators and crocodiles;
      2.   Bears (ursidae). All bears including grizzly bears, brown bears,
black bears, etc;
      3.   Cat family (felidae). All except the commonly accepted domesticated
cats, and including cheetah, cougar, leopard, lion, lynx, panther, mountain
lion, tiger, wildcat, etc;
      4.   Dog family (canidae). All except domesticated dogs, and including
wolf, fox, coyote, etc;
      5.   Porcupine (erethizontidae);
      6.   Primate (hominidae). All subhuman primates;
      7.   Raccoon (prosynnidae). All raccoons, including eastern raccoon,
desert raccoon, ringtailed cat, etc;
      8.   Skunks;
      9.   Venomous fish and piranha;
      10.   Venomous snakes or lizards;
      11.   Weasels (mustelidae). All, including weasels, martens, wolverines,
ferrets, badgers, otters, ermine, mongoose, mink, etc., except that persons
raising members of this family as a business for their pelts shall not be
prohibited by this chapter. (1991 Code § 6.08.130, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Restraint And Muzzle Required: It is unlawful for the owner of any
fierce, dangerous or vicious animal to permit such animal to go or be off the
premises of the owner, unless such animal is under restraint and properly
muzzled so as to prevent it from injuring any person or property. Every animal
so vicious and dangerous that it cannot be controlled by reasonable restraints,
and every dangerous and vicious animal not effectively controlled by its owner
or person having charge, care or control of such animal, so that it shall not
injure any person or property, is a hazard to public safety, and is declared to
be a nuisance subject to all provisions of this code.
   C.   Wild Animals Prohibited; Exception: It is unlawful for any person to
sell, offer for sale, barter, give away, keep or purchase any "wild animal", as
defined in subsection A of this section, which is fierce, dangerous, noxious or
naturally inclined to do harm, except the animal shelter, a zoological park,
veterinary hospital, Humane Society shelter, public laboratory, circus,
sideshow, amusement show, or facility for educational or scientific purposes
may keep such an animal if protective devices adequate to prevent such animal
from escaping or injuring the public are provided. (1991 Code § 6.08.130, as
amended)
ARTICLE C. DOG LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2C-1: Definitions
5-2C-2: License And Registration Required
5-2C-3: Tag And Collar
5-2C-4: Running At Large
5-2C-5: Females In Heat
5-2C-6: Strays
5-2C-7: Rabies Control
5-2C-8: Dogs Disturbing Neighborhood
5-2C-9: Vicious Dogs And Animals; Special Provisions
5-2C-10: Dogs Attacking Persons Or Animals
5-2C-11: Dogs On Unenclosed Premises
5-2C-12: Places Prohibited
5-2C-13: Impounding
5-2C-14: Standard Bail Schedule
5-2C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
words shall mean:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The custodian selected by the governing body to be
responsible for the operation of the dog pound.
AT LARGE OR RUNNING AT LARGE: Any dog off or away from the premises of the
owner, possessor or keeper thereof, unless such dog is under the control of
such owner, possessor or keeper, or his agent or servant, or a member of his
immediate family by means of a leash, cord or chain not in excess of ten feet
(10') in length.
DOG: Any male, female or spayed female dog of any age.
DOG OF LICENSING AGE: Any dog which has been weaned or attained the age of six
(6) months.
IMPOUNDED: Having been received into the custody of the city pound or into the
custody of any authorized agent or representative of the city.
OWNER: When applied to the proprietorship of a dog, means any person or
persons, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping or harboring a dog.
POUND: An animal shelter, lot, premises or building maintained by or authorized
or employed by the city for the confinement or care of dogs seized either under
the provisions of this chapter or otherwise.
TEMPORARY DOG: Any dog whose owner is not a resident of the city and said dog
is being kept, boarded, harbored or maintained in the city for a temporary
period, not to exceed one 30 consecutive day period in any calendar year.
UNLICENSED DOG: A dog for which the license for the current year has not been
paid, or to which the tag provided for in this article is not attached.
VICIOUS DOG: A dog that has bitten a person without provocation or a dog that
has a known propensity to attack or bite human beings. (1991 Code § 6.12.010,
as amended)
5-2C-2: LICENSE AND REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Requirements: It is unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or maintain
any dog six (6) or more months old unless such dog has been registered and
licensed in the manner herein provided.
   B.   Application: Application for registration and licensing shall be made
to the animal control officer or such other person as the governing body may
authorize to receive such applications.
   C.   Issuance Of License: A dog license shall be issued by the animal
control officer or such other person as the governing body may authorize.
   D.   Fee For License: No dog license shall be issued by the city until the
fee required herein is paid. Until otherwise changed by resolution or ordinance
of the governing body, the following fees shall be charged:
 
Spayed female   $ 5.00
Neutered male   5.00
Unspayed female 10.00
Unneutered male 10.00
 
   (1991 Code § 6.12.020, as amended)
   E.   Payment Due; Delinquency: The fees due and payable pursuant to this
section shall be due January 1 and shall be delinquent after March 31 of each
year. A penalty of two hundred percent (200%) shall be added to delinquent
payments, plus any other fines or penalties which may be assessed. (1991 Code §
6.12.020, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   F.   Newly Attained Dogs: The owner of any newly acquired dog of licensing
age or of any dog which attains licensing age after March 31 of any year shall
make an application for registration and license within twenty (20) days after
such acquisition or dogs attain the above stated age; provided, that the
license fee shall be one-half (1/2) of that above required for new applications
received after June 1 of any year.
   G.   Kennel 1  License Fee: Anyone owning, keeping, harboring or maintaining
three (3) or more dogs over the age of three (3) months shall be considered
operating a dog kennel and shall be required to pay an annual kennel license
fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per year.
   H.   Information Required: The owner shall state at the time application is
made for such license, his name and address and the sex, breed, and color of
each dog owned or kept by him.
   I.   Term Of License: The license fee shall cover the calendar year in which
the license was issued, expiring on December 31 of the year of issuance,
regardless of the date when issued.
   J.   Exception To Fees: Dogs used as guides for blind persons and commonly
known as seeing eye dogs shall be licensed and registered as other dogs herein
provided; except that the owner or keeper of such dog shall not be required to
pay any fee therefor.
   K.   Temporary Dogs:
      1.   Temporary dogs may be kept, boarded, harbored or maintained within
the city without being subject to licensing, but subject to all other
ordinances, rules and regulations of the city, for the period allowed in the
definition of "temporary dog", as defined in section
5-2C-1 of this article.
      2.   Anyone keeping, boarding, harboring or maintaining a dog on a
temporary basis shall notify the animal control officer within five (5) days of
receiving said dog and record with the animal control officer the date the dog
entered the city on a temporary basis. Anyone keeping, boarding or maintaining
a temporary dog within the city who fails to notify the animal control officer
is in violation of this subsection.
      3.   Temporary dogs must have a valid rabies certificate while in the
city, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Temporary dogs kept within the city in excess of the temporary
period allowed in the definition of "temporary dog", as defined in section
5-2C-1 of this article, must be licensed by the city as provided herein for
dogs kept, boarded, harbored or maintained by residents. It is unlawful for any
person to fail to properly license any dog held in the city in excess of the
thirty (30) day temporary period. (1991 Code § 6.12.020, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. See also definition of "kennel" in section
  10-2-1 of this code.
5-2C-3: TAG AND COLLAR:
Upon payment of the license fee, the city recorder shall issue to the owner a
license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so licensed. The tag shall
be changed every year and shall have stamped thereon the year for which it was
issued and the number corresponding with the number on the certificate. Every
dog owner, except those operating a kennel, shall provide each dog with a
collar to which the license tag shall be affixed, and shall see that the collar
and tag are constantly worn. In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a
duplicate will be issued by the city recorder upon presentation of a receipt
showing the payment of the license fee for the current year and the payment of
five dollars ($5.00) for such duplicate. Dog tags shall not be transferable
from one dog to another, and no refunds shall be made on any dog license fee
because of the death of the dog or the owner leaving the city before expiration
of the license period. It is unlawful to deprive a registered dog of its collar
and/or tag. (1991 Code § 6.12.030, as amended)
5-2C-4: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog to permit such dog to
run at large.
   B.   It is unlawful for an owner of a dog to permit such dog to go upon or
be upon the private property of any person without the permission of the owner
or person entitled to the possession of such private property.
   C.   The owner of any dog running at large shall be deemed in violation of
this section regardless of the precautions taken to prevent the escape of the
dog and to prohibit it from running at large.
   D.   Any dog running at large in violation of the provisions of this section
is declared to be a nuisance and a menace to the public health and safety, and
the dog shall be taken up and impounded as provided in section
5-2C-13 of this article.
   E.   A dog shall be deemed to be running at large when off or away from the
premises of the owner, possessor or keeper thereof, unless such dog is under
the control of such owner, possessor or keeper, or his agent or servant or a
member of his immediate family, by means of a leash, cord or chain not in
excess of ten feet (10') in length. Procuring a permit and tag shall not
authorize the running at large of said dog. The fact that such dog runs at
large by reason of some other person's actions, failure to act, or by other
events or circumstances shall not be a defense to prosecution under this
section. (1991 Code § 6.12.040, as amended)
5-2C-5: FEMALES IN HEAT:
The owner of a female dog in heat shall cause such dog to be penned or enclosed
in such a manner as to preclude other dogs from attacking such female dog or
being attracted to such female dog so as to create a public nuisance. (1991
Code § 6.12.050, as amended)
5-2C-6: STRAYS:
It is unlawful for any person to harbor or keep within the city any lost or
strayed dog. Whenever any dog shall be found which appears to be lost or
strayed, it shall be the duty of the finder to notify the animal control
officer, who shall impound for running at large contrary to the terms of this
article. If there shall be attached to such dog a license tag for the then
current fiscal year, the animal control officer shall notify the person to whom
such license was issued, at the address given in the license. (1991 Code §
6.12.060, as amended)
5-2C-7: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Every owner of any dog over the age of three (3) months within the city
shall have the dog vaccinated against rabies by a duly licensed veterinarian,
shall secure from the veterinarian a certificate thereof, and shall attach to
the collar or harness, which such person is required to place upon the dog, a
tag showing that such vaccination has been done. (1991 Code § 6.12.070, as
amended)
   B.   It is unlawful for the owner of any dog to suffer, allow or permit such
dog to be or go upon any sidewalk, street, alley, public or private property
within the city limits, without first having had such dog vaccinated for
rabies. Each dog shall be required to have a rabies vaccination at age of three
(3) months, then a booster one year later, and thereafter a booster every three
(3) years. It is unlawful for any dog not to have a collar or harness with a
license tag thereon showing that such dog has been so vaccinated. (1991 Code §
6.12.080, as amended)
5-2C-8: DOGS DISTURBING NEIGHBORHOOD 1 :
No person, persons, firm or corporation shall own, keep or harbor any dog which
by loud, continuous or frequent barking, howling, yelping or by noxious or
offensive odors shall annoy, disturb or endanger the health and welfare of any
person or neighborhood, nor any dog which molests passersby, chases vehicles,
habitually attacks or destroys other domestic animals, or trespasses upon
school grounds or upon private property in such a manner as to damage property.
A violation of this section shall be a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and such is declared to be a nuisance, and each day a
violation is permitted to exist or continue shall constitute a separate
offense. This section shall not apply to the city dog pound, veterinary
hospitals or medical laboratories. (1991 Code § 6.12.090, as amended; amd. 2009
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  5-4-5B4 of this title.
5-2C-9: VICIOUS DOGS AND ANIMALS; SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to own and possess a vicious dog or other
animal within the city. It is unlawful for any person owning or having custody
or control of any dog or other animal known by such person to be vicious or
dangerous to permit or negligently allow it to run at large, or permit or
negligently allow it to run loose or within the premises of such person in such
a manner as to cause injury to any person or another animal. Whenever a
prosecution for this offense is commenced under this section, the dog so
involved may not be redeemed, pursuant to the provisions of this article, while
awaiting final decision of the court as to the disposition to be made of such
dog.
   B.   Any vicious dog or other animal running at large or loose within the
premises of the owner or person having custody or control of such dog or other
animal where it is reasonably likely to endanger the life or limb of or cause
injury to any person lawfully entering such premises, shall immediately be
captured by the animal control officer, his deputies, or any police officer,
and humanely destroyed or quarantined as provided in subsection
5-2C-13 of this article.
   C.   If the capture of such dog or other animal cannot be accomplished
without serious risk or harm to the animal control officer, his deputies or
police officers, such dog or other animal may be destroyed by the animal
control officer, his deputies or any police officer, where found, by the safest
and most appropriate means available. It shall be the duty of the owner or
person having custody or control of any vicious dog or other animal, upon
request, to assist in the capture of such dog or other animal. (1991 Code §
6.12.100, as amended)
   D.   Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 6.12.100, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   E.   Upon the trial of any offense under this section, the court may, upon
conviction and in addition to the usual judgment of conviction, order the
animal control officer or other authorized personnel of the city to put the dog
to death, or may order such other disposition of the dog as will protect the
inhabitants of the city. (1991 Code § 6.12.100, as amended)
5-2C-10: DOGS ATTACKING PERSONS OR ANIMALS:
   A.   Attacking Dogs: It is unlawful for the owner or person having charge,
care, custody or control of any dog to allow such dog to attack, chase or worry
any person, any domestic animal, any species of hoofed protected wildlife or
domestic fowl. "Worry", as used in this section, means to harass by tearing,
snapping, chasing, biting, shaking with the teeth, or other similar threatening
actions.
   B.   Owner Liability: The owner in violation of subsection A of this section
shall be strictly liable for violation of this section. In addition to being
subject to prosecution under subsection A of this section, the owner of such
dog shall also be liable in damages to any person injured or to the owner of
any animals injured or destroyed thereby.
   C.   Defenses: The following shall be considered in mitigating the penalties
or damages or in dismissing the charge:
      1.   The dog was properly confined on the premises;
      2.   The dog was deliberately or maliciously provoked.
   D.   Dogs May Be Killed: Any person may kill a dog while it is committing
any of the acts specified in subsection A of this section or while such dog is
being pursued thereafter. (1991 Code § 6.12.170, as amended)
5-2C-11: DOGS ON UNENCLOSED PREMISES:
It is unlawful for any person to chain, stake out or tether any dog on any
unenclosed premises in such a manner that the animal may go beyond the property
line, unless such person has permission of the owner of the affected property.
(1991 Code § 6.12.180, as amended)
5-2C-12: PLACES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to take or permit any dog, whether loose, or on a
leash or in arms, in or about any establishment or place of business where food
products are sold or displayed, including, but not limited to, restaurants,
grocery stores, meat markets or fruit or vegetable stores. Seeing eye dogs are
exempt from this section. (1991 Code § 6.12.190, as amended)
5-2C-13: IMPOUNDING:
   A.   Dog Pound: The governing body may contract with a person as animal
control officer, or with another municipality or with the county, for the
purpose of providing facilities to be used by the city as a dog pound. It shall
be operated so as to feed, water, protect from the "direct natural elements",
and to attempt to protect from injury and be maintained in as sanitary a manner
as possible, considering the circumstances. (1991 Code § 6.12.110, as amended)
   B.   Impounding Authorized: It shall be the duty of every police officer or
other designated official to apprehend any dog found running at large, not
wearing his tag, or which is in violation of this chapter, and to impound such
dog in the pound or other suitable place. The animal control officer or some
other designated official, upon receiving any dog, shall make a complete
registry, entering the breed, color and sex of such dog and whether licensed.
If licensed, he shall enter the name and address of the owner and number of the
license. (1991 Code § 6.12.120, as amended)
   C.   Record Of Impounded Animals: The animal control officer shall keep a
record of each animal impounded by him, the date of receipt of such animal, the
date and manner of its disposal and if redeemed, reclaimed or sold, the name of
the person by whom redeemed, reclaimed or purchased, the address of such
person, the amounts of all fees received or collected for or because of the
impounding, reclaiming or purchasing thereof, together with the number of any
tag and the date of any tag exhibited or issued upon the redemption or sale of
such animal. (1991 Code § 6.12.130, as amended)
   D.   Redemption Of Impounded Animals: Any animal impounded as a licensed or
unlicensed animal may be redeemed and taken from such pound or facility by the
owner or an authorized person, upon exhibiting to the animal control officer or
person having charge of said pound or facility, a certificate of registry as
provided in subsection B of this section, showing that the license imposed by
this article has been paid for such animal, as required, and upon paying to the
animal control officer, the city treasurer, the impounding agent or the justice
of the peace, a fine plus the impounding fees. The fine will be set at twenty
five dollars ($25.00) as a minimum and five hundred dollars ($500.00) as a
maximum depending on the circumstances and seriousness of the violation. In
addition to the proper licensing and fines, there will be an initial impounding
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00), plus fifteen dollars ($15.00) per day
boarding fees, for caring for the animal. All impounded animals not redeemed
within three (3) days shall be sold for the best price obtainable at either
private or public sale, and all monies received from such sales shall be paid
daily to the city treasurer. All animals that are not sold or redeemed in the
required time shall be disposed of in a humane manner. (1991 Code § 6.12.140,
as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   E.   Disposition Of Unclaimed And Infected Animals: All impounded animals
not redeemed within three (3) days of the date of impounding may be destroyed
or sold to the person first making written request for purchase at such price
as may be deemed agreeable. In the case of animals severely injured or having
contagious disease, other than rabies, and which in the animal control
officer's judgment are suffering and recovery is doubtful, the animal control
officer may destroy the dog without awaiting the three (3) day period. (1991
Code § 6.12.150, as amended)
   F.   Interference With Impounding Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person
to hinder, delay, interfere with or obstruct the animal control officer or any
of his assistants while engaging in capturing, securing or taking to the dog
pound any dog or dogs liable to be impounded, or to break open or in any manner
directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of any dog
pound or ambulance, wagon or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying
of dogs to the dog pound. (1991 Code § 6.12.160, as amended)
5-2C-14: STANDARD BAIL SCHEDULE:
The standard bail schedule for various sections of this chapter is as follows:
Section Brief Description Bail
Section  Brief Description                    Bail
5-2C-2   License and registration required    See section
                                              5-2C-2 of this article
5-2C-3   Dog not wearing tag                  $25.00
                                              First offense $20.00
5-2C-4   Running at large                     Second offense $40.00
                                              Third offense $80.00
                                              Fourth offense $160.00
5-2C-5   Unrestrained female in heat          $25.00
5-2C-7B  Rabies shot required                 Proof of shot, plus $25.00
                                              First offense $20.00
5-2C-8   Dogs disturbing and/or nuisance      Second offense $40.00
                                              Third offense $80.00
                                              Fourth offense $160.00
5-2C-9   Vicious, dangerous or fierce animals See section
                                              5-2C-9 of this article
                                              Restitution, plus $100.00
5-2C-10  Dogs attacking persons or animals    See section
                                              5-2C-10 of this article
5-2C-11  Dogs on unenclosed premises          $25.00
         Cruelty to animals                   $100.00
5-2C-13D Redemption of impounded animals      See subsection 5-2C-13D of this
                                              article
 
(1991 Code § 6.12.200, as amended)
ARTICLE D. ESTRAYS
SECTION:
5-2D-1: State Statutes Adopted By Reference
5-2D-1: STATE STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of Utah Code Annotated section 4-25-1 et seq., as
amended, relative to estrays and trespassing animals, with a corresponding
penalty of infraction, class C misdemeanor or class B misdemeanor, are hereby
adopted by the city. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered
violations of this section and each such violation shall be subject to the
penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
CRIMES AND OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
5-3-2: Curfew For Minors
5-3-3: Camping Near Water Supply Prohibited
5-3-4: Hunting, Firearms Discharge, Trapping
5-3-1: CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah criminal code, Utah Code Annotated title
76, as amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction, class C misdemeanor
or class B misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this section and each such violation
shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
5-3-2: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
   A.   Sunday Evening Through Friday Morning: It is unlawful for any minor
under eighteen (18) years of age to remain or loiter in any of the sidewalks,
streets, alleys or public places in the city between ten thirty o'clock (10:30)
P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., immediately following, from Sunday evening
through Friday morning.
   B.   Friday Evening Through Sunday Morning: It is unlawful for any minor
under eighteen (18) years of age to remain or loiter in any of the sidewalks,
streets, alleys or public places in the city between twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., immediately following, from Friday
evening through Sunday morning.
   C.   Responsibility Of Parents, Guardians: It is unlawful for any parent,
guardian or other person having legal care and custody of any minor under
eighteen (18) years of age to allow or permit any such minor to remain or
loiter on any of the sidewalks, streets, alleys or public places in the city,
within the times provided in subsections A and B of this section, except as
provided in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Exceptions: The provisions of subsections A through C of this section
shall not apply where the minor under the age of eighteen (18) is:
      1.   Married;
      2.   Accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person having care
of such minor;
      3.   Returning home from, going to or being in attendance at any
religious or school function, organized dance, theater, sports event or other
such associational activity; provided, however, that going to or from such
activity shall be by a direct route and within a reasonable time of the
commencement or termination of such event;
      4.   Engaged in a legitimate emergency errand;
      5.   Engaged in a legitimate employment and can produce evidence of such
employment; or
      6.   In a motor vehicle engaged in normal travel, while traveling to,
from or through the city on an interstate trip. (1991 Code § 9.40.010, as
amended)
5-3-3: CAMPING NEAR WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED:
Within the limits of the city, it is unlawful for any person to camp, sleep
out, park a vehicle or camp trailer, tent or trailer within one hundred feet
(100') of the edge of the Wellsville-Cache County park reservoir. (1991 Code §
9.44.110, as amended)
5-3-4: HUNTING, FIREARMS DISCHARGE, TRAPPING:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section:
    DANGEROUS WEAPON: As defined in Utah state code 76-10-501.
   FIREARM: As defined in Utah state code 76-10-501.
   TRAPPING: The use of any mechanical device which entraps, snares or snaps
closed on any animal.
   B.   Discharge Of Firearm Prohibited; Exceptions: It is a class C
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to discharge any firearm within the city,
except as follows:
      1.   At the police target range, when established;
      2.   At a regularly conducted school as part of a supervised course of
instruction;
      3.   At a regularly organized gun club shooting range where the range and
facilities have been approved by the governing body;
      4.   In self-defense;
      5.   Any peace officer in the discharge of his duty.
   C.   Trapping Prohibited; Exceptions: It is a class C misdemeanor, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to trap, set a trap, or engage in trapping
in the city, except as follows:
      1.   The mayor may provide written authorization to engage in trapping
where it is deemed by the mayor to be in the best interests of the city.
      2.   By landowners on their own property or as authorized with written
permission from the landowner.
      3.   Any trapping within the city must comply with Utah state code R657-
11, taking furbearers.
   D.   Possession Of A Dangerous Weapon By Minor: As defined in Utah state
code 76-10.
   E.   Use Of A Dangerous Weapon; Exception: Use of dangerous weapons,
excluding firearms, within the city is allowed under the following
circumstances:
      1.   With adult supervision as described in subsection D of this section;
and
      2.   In a safe manner with proper backstops or clear distance to prevent
severe injury or damage to property. (Ord. 2016-01, 2-17-2016)
CHAPTER 4
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Short Title
5-4-2: Policy And Scope
5-4-3: Definitions
5-4-4: Powers And Duties Of City Manager
5-4-5: Prohibited Acts
5-4-6: Exceptions And Variances
5-4-7: Sound Levels By Receiving Land Zone
5-4-8: Motor Vehicle Maximum Sound Levels
5-4-9: Enforcement
5-4-10: Tables
5-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the NOISE CONTROL ORDINANCE OF WELLSVILLE CITY.
(1991 Code § 8.04.010, as amended)
5-4-2: POLICY AND SCOPE:
   A.   Policy: It is the policy of the city to prevent excessive sound and
vibration which may jeopardize the health and welfare or safety of its
citizens, or degrade the quality of life. (1991 Code § 18.08.010, as amended)
   B.   Scope: This chapter shall apply to the control of all sound and
vibration originating within the limits of the city. (1991 Code § 18.08.020, as
amended)
5-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
All terminology used in this chapter, not defined below, shall be in
conformance with applicable publications of the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI), or its successor body. (1991 Code § 18.12.010, as amended)
As used in this chapter:
A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL: The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on a
sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read is
designated dB(A) or dBA.
AGRICULTURAL ZONE: Any area zoned as A (agricultural) by title 10 of this code.
CITY MANAGER: The official appointed by the mayor and approved by the city
council per title 1, chapter 6, article A of this code.
COMMERCIAL ZONE: Any area zoned as CN (neighborhood commercial), C-1 (community
commercial), C-2 (community commercial), C-3 (general commercial) or CH
(highway commercial) by title 10 of this code.
CONSTRUCTION: Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair,
alteration, or similar action, but excluding demolition for or of public or
private rights of way, structures, utilities or similar property.
DAY-NIGHT AVERAGE SOUND LEVEL (Ldn): The twenty four (24) hour energy average
of the A-weighted sound pressure level, with the levels during the period ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day, increased
by ten (10) dBA before averaging.
DECIBEL (dB): A unit for measuring the volume of a sound, equal to twenty (20)
times the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound
measured to the reference pressure, which is twenty (20) micropascals.
DEMOLITION: Any dismantling, intentional destruction or removal of structures,
utilities, public or private right of way surfaces or similar property.
DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE: A device used primarily on trucks for the conversion of
the engine from an internal combustion engine to an air compressor for the
purpose of braking without the use of wheel. They are commonly referred to as a
Jacobs brake, engine brake or compression brake.
EMERGENCY: Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or imminent
physical trauma or property damage which demands immediate action.
EMERGENCY WORK: Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or alleviating
the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an emergency.
EQUIVALENT A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL (Leq): The constant sound level that, in a
given situation and time period, conveys the same sound energy as the actual
time varying A-weighted sound. For the purpose of this chapter, a time period
of twenty four (24) hours shall be used, unless otherwise specified.
GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING (GVWR): The value specified by the manufacturer as
the recommended maximum loaded weight of a single motor vehicle. In cases where
trailers and tractors are separable, the gross combination weight rating
(GCWR), which is the value specified by the manufacturer as the recommended
maximum loaded weight of the combination vehicle, shall be used.
IMPULSIVE SOUND: Sound of short duration, usually less than one second, with an
abrupt onset and rapid decay. Examples of sources of impulsive sound include
explosions, drop forge impacts, and the discharge of firearms.
MANUFACTURING ZONE: Any area zoned as M-1 (manufacturing) by title 10 of this
code.
MOTOR CARRIER VEHICLE ENGAGED IN INTERSTATE COMMERCE: Any vehicle for which
regulations apply pursuant to section 18 of the federal noise control act of
1972 (P.L. 92-574), as amended, pertaining to motor carriers engaged in
interstate commerce.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is propelled or drawn on land by a motor, such
as, but not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, truck trailers, semitrailers,
campers, go-carts, snowmobiles, amphibious craft on land, dune buggies or
racing vehicles, but not including motorcycles.
MOTORBOAT: Any vessel which operates on water and which is propelled by a
motor, including, but not limited to, boats, barges, amphibious craft, water
ski towing devices and hover craft.
MOTORCYCLE: An unenclosed motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the
operator and two (2) or three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, including,
but not limited to, motor scooters and minibikes.
MUFFLER OR SOUND DISSIPATIVE DEVICE: A device for abating the sound of escaping
gases of an internal combustion engine.
NOISE: Any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or which causes or tends to
cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
NOISE DISTURBANCE: Any sound which:
   A.   Endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals; or
   B.   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities; or
   C.   Endangers or injures personal or real property.
NOISE SENSITIVE ZONE: Any area designated for the purpose of ensuring
exceptional quiet.
PERSON: Any individual, association, partnership, corporation or entity, public
or private in nature, and includes any officer, employee, department, agency or
instrumentality of a state or any political subdivision of a state.
POWERED MODEL VEHICLE: Any self-propelled airborne, waterborne or land borne
plane, vessel or vehicle, which is not designed to carry persons, including,
but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car or rocket.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk or alley
or similar place which is owned or controlled by a governmental entity.
PUBLIC SPACE: Any real property or structures thereon which are owned or
controlled by a governmental entity.
PURE TONE: Any sound which can be distinctly heard as a single pitch or a set
of single pitches. For the purposes of this chapter, a "pure tone" shall exist
if the one-third (1/3) octave band sound pressure level in the band with the
tone exceeds the arithmetic average of the sound pressure levels of the two (2)
contiguous one-third (1/3) octave bands by 5 dB for center frequencies of 500
Hz and above and by 8 dB for center frequencies between 160 and 400 Hz and by
15 dB for center frequencies less than or equal to 125 Hz.
RMS SOUND PRESSURE: The square root of the time averaged square of the sound
pressure, denoted Prms.
REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY: An imaginary line along the ground surface, and its
vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from
that owned by another person, but not including intrabuilding real property
divisions.
RESIDENTIAL ZONE: Any area zoned as RA (residential agricultural), R-1 (single-
family residence), R-2 (one- and two-family residence), or RM-4 (multiple-
family residence) by title 10 of this code.
SOUND: An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle velocity or
other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that cause
compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of sound may
include any characteristic of such sound, including duration, intensity and
frequency.
SOUND LEVEL: The weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of a sound
level meter and frequency weighting network, such as A, B or C as specified in
American National Standards Institute specifications for sound level meters
(ANSI SI.4-1985, or the latest approved revision thereof). If the frequency
weighting employed is not indicated, the A-weighting shall apply.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument which includes at least a microphone,
amplifier, output meter and weighting networks used to measure sound pressure
levels.
SOUND PRESSURE: The instantaneous difference between the actual pressure and
the average or barometric pressure at a given point in space, as produced by
sound energy.
SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: Twenty (20) times the logarithm to the base 10 of the
ratio of the RMS sound pressure to the reference pressure of twenty (20)
micropascals (20 x 10-6 N/m2). The sound pressure level is denoted Lp or SPL
and is expressed in decibels.
VIBRATION: An oscillatory motion of solid bodies of deterministic or random
nature described by displacement, velocity or acceleration with respect to a
given reference point.
WEEKDAY: Any day Monday through Friday which is not a legal holiday. (1991 Code
§ 18.12.020, as amended)
5-4-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY MANAGER:
   A.   Lead Agency: The noise control program established by this chapter will
be administered by the city manager. In performing these duties, the city
manager may contract the services of a private consultant to assist with the
technical details of this chapter. (1991 Code § 18.16.010, as amended)
   B.   Powers Of City Manager: In order to implement and enforce this chapter
and for the general purpose of sound and vibration abatement and control, the
city manager shall have, in addition to any other authority vested in him/her,
the power to:
      1.   Conduct research, monitoring or studies related to sound and
vibration;
      2.   Conduct programs of public education regarding sound and vibration;
      3.   Coordinate noise and vibration control activities with other city,
county, state and national officers;
      4.   Review public and private projects that are likely to cause sound
and vibration;
      5.   Require operators of commercial or industrial activities to keep
records of sound and vibration;
      6.   Prepare recommendations for noise sensitive zones;
      7.   Delegate functions within his/her authority under this chapter,
where appropriate, to other personnel, agencies or departments or contract the
same with competent persons, subject to approval of the city council. (1991
Code § 18.16.020, as amended)
5-4-5: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Noise Disturbances Prohibited: No person shall make, continue or cause
to be made or continued, any noise disturbance. (1991 Code § 18.20.010, as
amended)
   B.   Specific Prohibitions: Violations of this chapter shall include, but
not be limited to, the following acts, and the causing thereof:
      1.   Radios, Television Sets, Musical Instruments And Similar Devices:
Operating, playing or permitting the operation or playing of any radio,
television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument, sound amplifier, or similar
device which produces, reproduces or amplifies sound:
         a.   Between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. the following day, in such a manner as to create a noise
disturbance across a real property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone,
except for activities open to the public and for which a permit has been issued
by the mayor according to criteria set forth in section
5-4-6 of this chapter;
         b.   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance at fifty feet
(50') from such device, when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a public
right of way or public space;
         c.   In such a manner to create a noise disturbance to any person
other than the operator of the device, when operated by any passenger on a
common carrier.
      2.   Loudspeakers/Public Address Systems:
         a.   Using or operating for any noncommercial purpose any loudspeaker,
public address system, or similar device between the hours of ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day, such that the sound
therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a residential real property
boundary or within a noise sensitive zone;
         b.   Using or operating for any commercial purpose any loudspeaker,
public address system or similar device: 1) such that the sound therefrom
creates a noise disturbance across a real property boundary or within a noise
sensitive zone; or 2) between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day on a public right of way or public space.
      3.   Street Sales: Offering for sale or selling anything by shouting or
outcry within any residential area of the city, except by permit issued by the
mayor according to criteria set forth in section
5-4-6 of this chapter.
      4.   Animals And Birds 1 : Owning, possessing or harboring any animal or
bird which frequently or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks,
or makes other sounds which create a noise disturbance across a residential
real property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone. Because of the
agricultural and rural heritage, tradition and source of family income
established in the city for many decades and the desire to preserve the same,
this provision shall not apply to cattle, horses, donkeys, mules, sheep or
goats.
      5.   Loading And Unloading: Loading, unloading, opening, closing or other
handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials, garbage cans, or
similar objects between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. the following day in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance
across a residential real property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone.
      6.   Construction: Operating or permitting the operation of any tools or
equipment used in construction, drilling or demolition work:
         a.   Between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. the following day on weekdays, Saturdays or at any time on Sundays,
such that the sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a residential
real property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone, except for emergency
work of public service utilities or by special variance issued pursuant to
section
5-4-6 of this chapter;
         b.   This subsection shall not apply to the use of domestic power
tools subject to subsection B15 of this section.
      7.   Vehicle, Lawn Mower Or Motorboat Repairs And Testing: Repairing,
rebuilding, modifying or testing any motor vehicle, lawn mower, motorcycle or
motorboat within any residential area in such a manner as to cause a noise
disturbance across a residential real property boundary or within a noise
sensitive zone between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven (7:00)
A.M. the following day.
      8.   Places Of Public Entertainment: Operating, playing or permitting the
operation or playing of any radio, television, phonograph, drum, musical
instrument, sound amplifier, or similar device, which produces, reproduces or
amplifies sound in any place of public entertainment at a sound level greater
than ninety five (95) dBA as read by the slow response on a sound level meter
at any point that is normally occupied by a customer, unless a conspicuous and
legible sign is located outside such place, near each public entrance, stating:
"Warning: Sound Levels Within May Cause Permanent Hearing Impairment".
      9.   Explosives, Firearms And Similar Devices: The use or firing of
explosives, firearms or similar devices which create impulsive sound so as to
cause a noise disturbance across a real property boundary or on a public space
or right of way, without first obtaining a special variance issued pursuant to
section
5-4-6 of this chapter. Such permit need not be obtained for city Founder's Day
activities or use of firearms in protecting domestic animals outlined in
section
5-2C-10 of this title.
      10.   Powered Model Vehicles: Operating or permitting the operation of
powered model vehicles so as to create a noise disturbance across a residential
real property boundary, in a public space or within a noise sensitive zone
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the
following day. Maximum sound levels in a public space during the permitted
period of operation shall conform to those set forth for residential land use
in table I of section
5-4-10 of this chapter, and shall be measured at a distance of fifty feet (50')
from any point on the path of the vehicle. Maximum sound levels for residential
property and noise sensitive zones, during the permitted period of operation,
shall be governed by section
5-4-7 of this chapter and subsection B14 of this section, respectively.
      11.   Vibration: Operating or permitting the operation of any device that
creates vibration which is above the vibration perception threshold of an
individual at or beyond the property of the source if on private property or at
fifty feet (50') from the source if on a public space or public right of way.
For the purposes of this section, "vibration perception threshold" means the
minimum ground or structure borne vibrational motion necessary to cause a
normal person to be aware of the vibration by such direct means as, but not
limited to, sensation by touch or visual observation of moving objects.
      12.   Stationary Nonemergency Signaling Devices:
         a.   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any signal from any
stationary bell, chime, siren, whistle, or similar device, intended primarily
for nonemergency purposes, from any place;
         b.   Devices used in conjunction with places of religious worship or
education shall be exempt from the operation of this provision.
      13.   Emergency Signaling Devices:
         a.   The intentional sounding or permitting the sounding outdoors of
any fire, burglar or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle or similar stationary
emergency signaling device, except for emergency purposes or for reasonable
testing;
         b.   Testing of a stationary emergency signaling device shall occur at
the same time of day each time such a test is performed, but not before seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. or after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Any such testing shall
use only the minimum cycle test time. In no case shall such test time exceed
sixty (60) seconds;
         c.   Testing of the complete emergency signaling system, including the
functioning of the signaling device and the personnel response to the signaling
device, shall not occur more than once in each calendar month. Such testing
shall not occur before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or after ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. The time limit specified in subsection B13b of this section shall not
apply to such complete system testing.
      14.   Noise Sensitive Zones:
         a.   Creating or causing the creation of any sound within any noise
sensitive zone so as to disrupt the activities normally conducted within the
zone; or
         b.   Creating or causing the creation of any sound within any noise
sensitive zone, containing a hospital, nursing home or similar facility, so as
to interfere with the functions of such facility or disturb or annoy the
patients in the facility; provided, that conspicuous signs are displayed
indicating the presence of the zone.
      15.   Domestic Power Tools: Operating or permitting the operation of any
mechanically powered saw, sander, drill, grinder, lawn or garden tool, snow
blower, or similar device, used outdoors in residential areas between the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day so
as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property boundary.
      16.   Pumps And Motors Associated With Agricultural Irrigation
Activities: Operating or permitting the operation of any pump, motor or
combustion engine associated with agricultural irrigation activities without
the use of an adequate muffler or sound dissipative device. Pumps and motors
used for public culinary water supply purposes are exempt from this provision.
(1991 Code § 18.20.020, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  5-2C-8 of this title.
5-4-6: EXCEPTIONS AND VARIANCES:
   A.   Emergency Exception: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
1) the emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence
of an emergency; or 2) the emission of sound in the performance of emergency
work. (1991 Code § 18.24.010, as amended)
   B.   Special Variances:
      1.   The mayor shall have the authority, consistent with this section, to
grant special variances which may be requested.
      2.   Any person seeking a special variance pursuant to this section shall
file an application with the city manager. The application shall contain
information which demonstrates that bringing the source of sound or activity
for which the special variance is sought into compliance with this chapter
would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, on the community or
on other persons. Any individual who claims to be adversely affected by
allowance of the special variance may file a statement with the city manager
containing any information to support his claim. If the mayor finds that a
sufficient controversy exists regarding an application, a public hearing may be
held.
      3.   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the mayor
shall balance the hardship to the applicant, the community and other persons of
not granting the special variance against the adverse impact on the health,
safety and welfare of persons affected, the adverse impact on property
affected, and any other adverse impacts of granting the special variance.
Applicants for special variances and persons contesting special variances may
be required to submit any information the mayor may reasonably require. In
granting or denying an application, the mayor shall place on public file a copy
of the decision and the reasons for denying or granting the special variance.
      4.   Special variances which are allowed, shall be granted by notice to
the applicant containing all necessary conditions, including a time limit on
the permitted activity. The special variance shall not become effective until
all conditions are agreed to in writing by the applicant. Noncompliance with
any condition of the special variance shall terminate it and subject the person
holding it to those provisions of this chapter regulating the source of sound
or activity for which the special variance was granted.
      5.   Applications for extension of time limits specified in special
variances or for modification of other substantial conditions shall be treated
like applications for initial special variances under subsection B2 of this
section.
      6.   The city manager may issue guidelines defining the procedures to be
followed in applying for a special variance and the criteria to be considered
in deciding whether to grant a special variance. (1991 Code § 18.24.020, as
amended)
   C.   Appeals: Appeals of any decision of the mayor shall be made to the city
council. Appeals shall be in writing and shall be filed at the city office not
more than ten (10) working days after the decision by the mayor. The city
council may affirm, modify and affirm or reverse the decision of the mayor. The
mayor shall not attend the meeting, or portion thereof, of the city council
during the time that an appeal is heard, deliberated and decided by the city
council, except to present information regarding the basis for the decision, to
provide any other information and documentation relating to the mayor's
decision, and to answer questions the city council may have. An appeal of any
decision of the city council shall be made to the district court for Cache
County within thirty (30) calendar days after the decision is rendered. (1991
Code § 18.24.040, as amended)
5-4-7: SOUND LEVELS BY RECEIVING LAND ZONE:
   A.   Maximum Permissible Sound Levels By Receiving Land Zone: No person
shall operate or cause to be operated on private property any source of sound
in such a manner as to create a sound level which exceeds the limits set forth
for the receiving land zone category in table I, as set forth in section
5-4-10 of this chapter, when measured at or within the property boundary of the
receiving land zone. (1991 Code § 18.28.010, as amended)
   B.   Correction For Character Of Sound: For any source of sound which emits
a pure tone or impulsive sound, the maximum sound level limits set forth in
subsection A of this section shall be reduced by ten (10) dBA. (1991 Code §
18.28.020, as amended)
   C.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   The unamplified human voice;
      2.   Interstate railway locomotives and cars; and
      3.   Nonstationary farming equipment. (1991 Code § 18.28.030, as amended)
5-4-8: MOTOR VEHICLE MAXIMUM SOUND LEVELS:
   A.   Motor Vehicles And Motorcycles On Public Rights Of Way: No person shall
operate or cause to be operated a public or private motor vehicle or motorcycle
on a public right of way at any time in such a manner that the sound level
emitted by the motor vehicle or motorcycle exceeds the level set forth in table
II as set forth in section
5-4-10 of this chapter. (1991 Code § 18.32.010, as amended)
   B.   Adequate Mufflers Or Sound Dissipative Devices:
      1.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any motor vehicle or
motorcycle not equipped with a muffler or other sound dissipative device in
good working order and in constant operation; and
      2.   No person shall remove or render inoperative, or cause to be removed
or rendered inoperative, other than for purposes of maintenance, repair or
replacement, any muffler or sound dissipative device on a motor vehicle or
motorcycle. (1991 Code § 18.32.020, as amended)
   C.   Dynamic Braking Devices: It is unlawful for any person to operate any
motor vehicle with a dynamic breaking device engaged, except for the aversion
of imminent danger, within the corporate limits of the city 1 . (1991 Code §
18.32.030, as amended)
   D.   Standing Motor Vehicles: No person shall operate or permit the
operation of any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) in
excess of ten thousand (10,000) pounds, or any auxiliary equipment attached to
such a vehicle, for a period longer than ten (10) minutes while the vehicle is
stationary, for reasons other than traffic congestion, on a public right of way
or public space within one hundred fifty feet (150') of a residential area or
designated noise sensitive zone, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day. (1991 Code § 18.32.040, as
amended)
   E.   Recreational Motorized Vehicles Operating Off Public Rights Of Way:
      1.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any recreational
motorized vehicle off a public right of way in such a manner that the sound
level emitted therefrom exceeds the limits set forth in table III, as set forth
in section
5-4-10 of this chapter, at a distance of fifty feet (50') or more from the path
of the vehicle when operated on a public space or at or across the boundary of
private property when operated on private property. This subsection shall apply
to all recreational motorized vehicles, whether or not duly licensed and
registered, including, but not limited to, commercial or noncommercial racing
vehicles, motorcycles, go-carts, snowmobiles, amphibious craft, campers, dune
buggies and motorboats.
      2.   Permits for motor vehicle racing events may be obtained from the
mayor according to procedures and criteria set forth in subsection
5-4-6B of this chapter. (1991 Code § 18.32.050, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-1-4 of this code.
5-4-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 18.36.010, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
      2.   The business license of any person who violates any provision of
this chapter may be suspended, revoked or not renewed, pursuant to the
provisions of this code, if the violation is related to, caused by or results
from the conduct or operation of the business for which the business license is
issued by the city.
      3.   Each day of violation of any provision of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. (1991 Code § 18.36.010, as amended)
   B.   Abatement Orders:
      1.   In lieu of issuing a notice of violation, the city manager, or other
official responsible for the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, may
issue an order requiring abatement of any source of sound or vibration alleged
to be in violation of this chapter, within a reasonable time period.
      2.   An abatement order need not be issued when the city manager or other
law enforcement officer has reason to believe that there will not be compliance
with the abatement order. (1991 Code § 18.36.020, as amended)
   C.   Notice Of Violation: Except when a person is acting in good faith to
comply with an abatement order, violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be cause for a notice of violation to be issued by the sheriff's office
or other responsible law enforcement official. (1991 Code §
   D.   Other Remedies: No provision of this chapter shall be construed to
impair any common law or statutory cause of action, or legal remedy therefrom,
of any person for injury or damage arising from any violation of this chapter
or from other law. (1991 Code § 18.36.040, as amended)
5-4-10: TABLES:
   TABLE I
   SOUND LEVELS BY RECEIVING LAND ZONE
 
Receiving Land Use Zone         Time                    Sound Level Limit, dBA
                                10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M. 50
RA, R-1, R-2                    7:00 P.M. to 10:00 P.M. 55
                                7:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M.  60
RM-4                            10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M. 55
                                7:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M. 60
A, CN, C-1, C-2, C-3, CH        10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M. 60
                                7:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M. 65
A, CN, C-1, C-2, C-3, CH: where
origin of the noise is within
100 feet of any dwelling,       10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M. 55
residence, hotel, motel,        7:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M. 60
apartment, or other structure
where people normally sleep
M-1                             Any time                70
 
   TABLE II
   MOTOR VEHICLE AND MOTORCYCLE SOUND LIMITS
   (Measured At 50 Feet Or 15 Meters)
   (24 Hours A Day, Any Day)
   Sound Level In dBA
 
Vehicle Class        Speed Limit 35 MPH Speed Limit Over 35 Stationary Run Up
                     Or Less            MPH
Motor carrier
vehicle engaged in
interstate commerce  88                 88                  90
or GVWR or GCWR of
10,000 pounds or
more
All other motor
vehicles of GVWR or  88                 90                  88
GCWR of 6,000 pounds
or more
Any motorcycle       86                 90                  86
Any other motor
vehicle or any
combination of       76                 83                  76
vehicles towed by
any motor vehicle
 
   TABLE III
   RECREATIONAL MOTORIZED VEHICLE SOUND LIMITS
   (Measured At 50 Feet Or 15 Meters)
   (24 Hours A Day, Any Day)
 
Vehicle Type      Sound Level, dBA
Snowmobile        73
Motorcycle        73
Any other vehicle 73
 
(1991 Code title 18)
CHAPTER 5
MINING AND EXCAVATION OPERATIONS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Purpose
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Excavation Conditional Use Permit Required
5-5-4: Excavation And Rehabilitation Plan
5-5-5: Revocation Or Modification Of Permit
5-5-6: Transfer To Successor Operator
5-5-7: Appeals To City Council
5-5-8: Filing Of Annual Progress Report
5-5-9: Operational Requirements
5-5-10: Rehabilitation Requirements
5-5-11: Surety Required
5-5-12: Reduction In Required Operation Boundaries
5-5-13: Variances
5-5-14: Existing Operations; Compliance Time Limit
5-5-15: Enforcement Authority
5-5-16: Inspection And Stop Work Orders
5-5-17: Penalty
5-5-18: Repealer
5-5-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   It is the purpose and object of this chapter to establish reasonable
and uniform limitations, safeguards and controls on excavations within the
city. These provisions are deemed necessary in the public interest to effect
practices which will provide protection of the tax base, provide for the
economical use of vital materials necessary for our economy and give due
consideration to the present and future use of land in the interest of
promoting the public health, comfort, safety, community character and general
welfare.
   B.   Any necessary alterations to the surface of land within the city which
involves excavation on said land should be done in such a way as to minimize
undesirable effects on surrounding or adjacent land. Excavated land should be
reclaimed and rehabilitated so as to prevent conditions detrimental to the
general health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city and to provide
for the subsequent use of the excavated land. Reclamation and rehabilitation
requirements must be adapted to the diversity of the topography, chemical,
climatic, biologic, geologic, economic and social conditions of the area where
the excavation takes place. (1991 Code § 8.44.010, as amended)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
EXCAVATION: The removal of rock, sand, gravel, clay and any other soil by
digging, leveling, scraping, blasting or any other process, together with all
other types of mining or excavation operations where material is removed from
the earth. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the removal of sod
to a depth not in excess of four inches (4") per crop removal, and provided
such removal will not adversely affect the drainage, stability and/or
vegetation of the area. This chapter shall not apply to ditching and land
leveling for agricultural or recreational uses, or for site preparations for
building a structure, subject to the following: Land leveling for purposes of
this chapter may include the removal of the resources referenced above, but any
excavation for purposes of this chapter which exceeds thirty (30) cubic yards
per acre, or a proportionally equivalent amount for fractional acreage, shall
be subject to the provisions of this chapter. This chapter shall also not apply
to removal or other movement of rock, sand, gravel, clay or any other soil
which is done in the process of developing an approved subdivision.
LAND: The surface and subsurface of an area within the incorporated areas of
the city where excavation operations are being or will be conducted, including,
but not limited to: on site private ways, roads, the excavation site itself,
exploration sites, drill sites or working, parking or storage areas; areas in
which structures, facilities, equipment, machines, tools or other materials or
property which result from, or are used in, such operations, are situated.
OFF SITE: The land areas that are outside or beyond the boundaries of the on
site land which is owned or controlled by the owner or operator of the on site
land on or within which excavation operations are being or will be conducted.
ON SITE: The land on or within the boundaries of which excavation operations
are or will be conducted by the owner or operator thereof.
OPERATOR: Any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership, receiver,
trustee, executor, administrator, guardian, fiduciary, agent or other legally
existing entity, organization or representative of any kind, either public or
private, owning, controlling or managing excavation operations or proposed
excavation operations.
OWNER: Any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or other legally
existing entity, organization or representative of any kind, either public or
private, owning, controlling or managing the land employed in excavation
operations or proposed excavation operations.
PUBLIC ROAD: Any highway, road, street, alley, lane, court, place, viaduct,
tunnel, culvert or bridge laid out or erected as such by the public, or
dedicated or abandoned to the public, or made such in an action for the
partition of real property, and includes the entire areas within the right of
way or public road.
REHABILITATION: Actions performed during and after excavation operations to
shape, stabilize, revegetate or otherwise treat the land affected in order to
achieve a safe, stable, ecological condition. The excavated lands will be
rehabilitated to a usable condition which is readily adaptable to alternate
land uses and creates no danger to public safety. These rehabilitated or
reclaimed land areas will be consistent with the city land use plan in the
immediate areas. The rehabilitation process may extend to affected lands
surrounding the excavated lands and may require backfilling, grading,
resoiling, revegetation, soil compaction, stabilization and other measures.
(1991 Code § 8.44.020, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
5-5-3: EXCAVATION CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
No excavation shall be permitted on any land in the city unless authorized
under a conditional use permit (excavation conditional use permit hereafter),
issued to the owner and/or operator of the property in accordance with the
procedures set forth in title 10, chapter 15 of this code, except for
excavation on any land in the city where a nonconforming excavation use is
legally proven to have been established or is accepted by city officials as
having been established. (1991 Code § 8.44.030, as amended)
5-5-4: EXCAVATION AND REHABILITATION PLAN:
In order to ensure that the land area of the proposed excavation is reasonable
for that purpose and to ensure rehabilitation of the land area to a state that
enables meaningful use, ensures public safety and maintains or restores
acceptable aesthetic conditions, the owner or operator shall, prior to
commencement of any phase of operation, submit to the city manager, who shall
review it and submit it to the planning commission, as part of the excavation
conditional use permit application procedure, an excavation and rehabilitation
plan which addresses the following, except for items which are, for due cause,
waived or modified by the planning commission as being unnecessary for a
particular application:
   A.   General Information: The following shall be provided: the name of the
property owner, lessee, operator, agent for service of process or notice,
telephone numbers, address and/or location of property and legal description.
   B.   Preexcavation Inventory And Analysis: A preexcavation inventory and
analysis, both off site and on site, shall be performed by the applicant
containing the following information:
      1.   A regional vicinity analysis describing other land uses surrounding
the site, the possible impacts of the proposed excavation on surrounding land
and the methods to be employed to mitigate any potentially negative effects;
and
      2.   A description of the regional haulage routes to be employed on
public and private roads;
      3.   Other items reasonably determined necessary by the planning
commission.
   C.   Presite Inventory And Analysis: The applicant shall conduct a presite
inventory and analysis to include:
      1.   A topographic map of the area (at a scale of 1 inch equals 200 feet)
to a maximum contour interval of five feet (5'), and extending at least five
hundred feet (500') beyond the proposed excavation site;
      2.   A description of the visual characteristics, with particular concern
given to the use of natural topography and vegetation, to shield on site
operations from nearby properties, roadways and the general public;
      3.   A soils survey, to include a soils profile; and
      4.   Other items reasonably determined necessary by the planning
commission.
   D.   Excavation Operations Plan: The application shall provide an excavation
operations plan which describes the following:
      1.   Proposed starting date and the anticipated period of operation, and
also including anticipated days of the week and hours of the day for operation,
consistent with this chapter;
      2.   Planned phases of excavation;
      3.   Anticipated amount of material to be removed during each phase;
      4.   Number, type and kinds of machinery and equipment to be used;
      5.   Operational processes, including crushing, if allowed, stockpiling,
milling, topsoil retention, etc.;
      6.   The water to be used in operations, its source, control and
disposal;
      7.   Electrical power requirements, source and control;
      8.   Accessory facilities, such as scales and buildings;
      9.   Sanitary facilities and disposal system;
      10.   Wind and air movement patterns with a description of techniques
used to control dust and noise;
      11.   Transportation routes on and off site;
      12.   Runoff water control and detention;
      13.   Depiction of phases and location of all facilities, stockpiles,
transportation routes, detention basins and water and power sources on the
topographic map referred to above or other suitable map;
      14.   Any economic or adverse effects on the surrounding area and steps
taken to mitigate their impact, such as dust and vibration control and noise
abatement;
      15.   Detailed analysis and description of noise levels (expressed in
decibels) expected from proposed operations;
      16.   Cross sections showing existing surfaces versus proposed excavation
at one hundred foot (100') intervals across the site; cross sections should be
drawn parallel to slope;
      17.   To the extent not already shown, how the operations will comply
with the requirements of section
5-5-9 of this chapter;
      18.   Operator's safety plan; and
      19.   Other items reasonably determined necessary by the planning
commission.
   E.   Rehabilitation Plan: The applicant shall provide a rehabilitation plan
with the use of maps, imagery and renderings (at a scale of 1 inch equals 200
feet) extending five hundred feet (500') beyond the legal description of the
site area with a maximum contour interval of five feet (5'), which includes at
least the following:
      1.   A grading plan drawn and certified by a licensed engineer or land
surveyor indicating the areas to be excavated, the proposed finished grades and
stormwater drainage patterns;
      2.   A description of the methods and plans to be employed for
rehabilitation of the site during and after the excavation operations;
      3.   A description of the landscape plan to include the installation of
topsoil, planning schedule, specifications for plan applications, mulching and
type of irrigation to be used;
      4.   A description of the hydrologic environment of the rehabilitated
site, to include a map illustrating water drainage areas such as lakes,
springs, ponds, streams, wells, pipelines, culverts, ditches, canals;
      5.   A description of all permanent roads and other manmade structures
which are to remain after rehabilitation;
      6.   Cross sections shall be taken in the excavation site in areas of
greatest material displacement. The number of cross sections required shall be
dependent on the size and topography of the excavation site;
      7.   To the extent not already shown, compliance with section
5-5-10 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of surety; and
      9.   Other items reasonably determined necessary by the planning
commission.
   F.   Addendum: Final conditions or limitations imposed by the planning
commission or city council. (To be completed prior to final issuance of the
excavation conditional use permit.)
   G.   Authorization Of Permit: All operation and rehabilitation maps and
plans shall include signature blocks for the owner and operator, city engineer
and mayor. The referenced signatures shall be obtained before an excavation
conditional use permit shall be authorized. (1991 Code § 8.44.040, as amended)
5-5-5: REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authorized: Any excavation conditional use permit issued shall be
subject to revocation or modification by the planning commission as set forth
in title 10, chapter 15 of this code.
   B.   Modification Of Excavation Conditional Use Permit Plans: Modification
of the excavation conditional use permit plans may be initiated by the planning
commission, the city council, or by the permittee where minor revisions are
sought for any portion of the approved permit. Consideration of such revisions
need not require a public hearing; provided, that, in the judgment of the
planning commission, the proposed revisions would not constitute significant
changes, and provided also that the planning commission has not determined, or
the permittee has not expressly requested, that a public hearing be held. (1991
Code § 8.44.050, as amended)
5-5-6: TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR OPERATOR:
Whenever an owner/operator succeeds to the interest of another owner/operator
by sale, assignment, lease or other means, the planning commission may release
the first owner/operator from his responsibilities under his approved plans as
described above, including surety, provided the successor owner/operator
assumes all of the responsibilities of the former owner/operator to the
satisfaction of the planning commission under the approved excavation
conditional use permit and the posting of surety. Upon satisfactory assumption
of such responsibilities by the successor owner/operator, under conditions
approved by the planning commission, the responsibility of the total excavation
site and permit shall be transferred to the successor owner/operator. Any
owner/operator succeeding to the interest of another owner/operator by sale,
assignment, lease or other means, in a legally existing nonconforming use as
referenced in section
5-5-3 of this chapter, shall enjoy the same privileges and be bound by the same
restrictions as the transferring owner/operator. (1991 Code § 8.44.060, as
amended)
5-5-7: APPEALS TO CITY COUNCIL:
Appeals from any decision of the planning commission with respect to the
excavation conditional use permit, whether as a result of the initial
application process or later, shall be directed to the city council in the
manner prescribed in title 10, chapter 15 of this code. Upon the hearing of
such appeal, the city council may, by motion, affirm, affirm with conditions,
reverse or modify in whole or in part any determination of the planning
commission, also as provided by title 10, chapter 15 of this code. (1991 Code §
8.44.070, as amended)
5-5-8: FILING OF ANNUAL PROGRESS REPORT:
At the end of each calendar year, unless waived by the planning commission for
due cause, each operator conducting excavation operations shall file an
operations and progress report with the planning commission. The report will
summarize activities in fulfillment of the requirements of excavation and
rehabilitation in conformance with the rehabilitation plan previously
submitted. (1991 Code § 8.44.080, as amended)
5-5-9: OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
All excavation operations conducted or carried on within the city are subject
to the following limitations, restrictions and controls:
   A.   Dust, Noise, Vibration, Smoke, Lights And Odor: All equipment and
machinery used on the site and in transportation of products through the city
shall be constructed, maintained and operated in such a manner as to minimize
the impact of dust, noise, vibration, smoke, welding lights and other lights,
odor and all other negative or undesirable impacts on the city, or city
property, and particularly on adjacent and surrounding properties. Soil
berming, landscaping and other techniques shall be used to accomplish the
objective of reducing the impact of smoke, any kind of lights, noise and
vibration on adjacent property, and to control loose dirt and dust such that it
remains on the operation site. All state and federal emission guidelines and
regulations must be adhered to. Access and haulage roads shall be maintained in
a dust free condition by surfacing or other treatment as approved by the city
engineer and fugitive dust shall be controlled in all other operational areas
of the excavation site.
   B.   Operation Boundaries: To protect neighboring residents and properties
from the potentially adverse effects of dust, noise, vibration, smoke, welding
and other lights, odors, soil erosion, and all other negative or undesirable
impacts, all excavation operations are prohibited within two hundred feet
(200') of an adjacent residential zone boundary or a subdivision, or within
fifty feet (50') of a public highway or street, except for accessory roads.
Rock crushing operations shall not be conducted within six hundred feet (600')
of adjacent properties, if allowed at all. Existing operations shall, within
ninety (90) days of the passage date hereof, provide a map showing the
boundaries of their operations.
   C.   Fencing And Barriers: Fencing or other suitable barriers shall be
created and maintained on or around the boundary of the excavation site or on
or around portions of the site where such fencing is practicable and necessary
because of dangerous conditions, whether existing or created by the excavation,
as determined by the city engineer. Fencing or barriers may also be required,
at the option of the planning commission, to provide screening of the
excavation operation from public view and to enhance the general aesthetics of
the area. Fencing, monuments or other means of identification shall be placed
and maintained around the perimeter of the excavation site so as to enable
reasonable identification of the property line separating the excavation
property from adjoining landowners.
   D.   Landscaping: The planting of trees, shrubs or other appropriate
landscaping, or the placement of berms or structures, shall be required where
natural conditions make such feasible and practical in order to provide a dust
or sound barrier, to screen excavation from public view, to enhance the general
appearance, and to minimize the damaging effect of such operations to the
aesthetics and character of the surrounding area. Vegetative material shall be
planted, together with necessary topsoil, as per a schedule approved in the
granting of the excavation conditional use permit or as a part of a separate
rehabilitation plan for existing operations, and shall be maintained in a
healthy, growing condition.
   E.   Washing Operations: The washing of sand and gravel, when permitted,
shall be done so as to prevent the discharge of wastewater directly into
adjacent natural watercourses or onto any public or private roads or any
private property without the written consent of the property owner.
   F.   Runoff Water Detention: The operator or owner shall, on determination
by the city engineer, be required to construct runoff water detention
facilities to prevent damage to neighboring property and structures and for
protection of the residents and property adjacent to the site. A stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) shall be prepared and submitted in accordance
with the national pollution discharge elimination system (NPDES) requirements,
and all necessary federal, state and local permits shall be obtained.
   G.   Truck Washing And Covering: Prior to entry onto asphalt roadways from
dirt surfaces, truck tires shall be washed or otherwise cleaned to remove dust,
soil, mud, gravel and all other debris, and trucks shall be covered, all to
prevent contamination of public highways by the depositing of dust, mud, soil,
gravel and all other debris on any public highway.
   H.   Load Limits: All trucks, equipment and machinery operating on public or
city streets and roads shall comply strictly with the city, county and state
road limitations setting forth allowable vehicle weight limits, heights and
lengths, and all vehicles must meet state safety requirements; and, where
necessary, flagging and other traffic controls shall be implemented to preserve
public safety.
   I.   Hours Of Operation: Excavation operations and transport of materials to
and from the site, except for the maintenance and repair of vehicles and
equipment, which does not have a negative or unacceptable impact on surrounding
or adjacent property owners, shall take place between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on any day, except as provided
herein. No truck used in hauling operations will be allowed into the site
before the specified time or permitted to leave the site loaded with materials
from the site after the specified time. No excavation operations shall take
place on Sundays or on any legal city, state or federal holidays. During
periods of national or unusual emergency or to ensure safety of citizens, the
time and hours of operation may be altered at the discretion of the city
council. In addition, the city council may, consistent with the intent of these
regulations, modify the provisions relative to permitted hours of operation for
any excavation area, after notice to interested parties and the holding of a
hearing on the proposed modification.
   J.   Restricted Or Related Manufacturing Operations: The manufacture of
concrete building blocks or other similar blocks, the production or manufacture
of lime products, the production of ready mixed concrete, the production of
asphalt mixes, rock crushing and screening operations, and any similar
production or manufacturing processes that might be related to the excavation
operation, shall not be permitted, except as otherwise provided in the zoning
ordinance and except where a nonconforming use related to one or more of the
referenced activities is legally proven to have been established or is accepted
by city officials as having been established.
   K.   Permits; Compliance With Laws: Compliance with all federal, state and
local laws relating to excavation operations shall be achieved and all required
permits obtained, including a business license from the city.
   L.   Cessation Of Operations: Within one year after the cessation of
operations, all temporary structures (except fences), equipment, rock piles,
rubble heaps or other debris shall be removed or backfilled into the excavation
so as to leave the site in neat and orderly condition as determined by the city
engineer and as provided in section
5-5-10 of this chapter. This includes the rehabilitation of all excavated
areas.
   M.   Blasting: Any excavation by blasting shall only be allowed by separate
application to and approval by the city council, after a public hearing for
which prior notice was given. (1991 Code § 8.44.090, as amended)
   N.   Safety Of Operations: Any excavation operation shall be conducted in a
safe manner. To protect against collapse, cuts, banks and any other open slopes
on the premises shall not be left past the end of a working day, or left
unattended when such slopes are more steep than one to one (1:1). The city
manager or city engineer may require less steep slopes of any operation if he/
she determines that, due to the nature of the soils being excavated, a less
steep slope ought to be maintained to ensure proper safety. Other applicable
state and federal occupational health and safety requirements must also be met.
The owner of the land, as well as any contractor conducting the excavation
operation, shall be jointly responsible for compliance with safety
requirements. (1991 Code § 8.44.090, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
5-5-10: REHABILITATION REQUIREMENTS:
In order to ensure that the excavated area shall be rehabilitated to a
condition of practical usefulness and reasonable physical attractiveness within
a reasonable amount of time, to prevent environmental degradation to the
ecologic and hydrologic regimes caused by excavation, and to prevent present
and future hazards to public safety and welfare, all owners and/or operators of
excavation operations shall adhere to a rehabilitation plan approved by the
planning commission, which shall include the following, except for items which
are, for due cause, waived or modified by the planning commission as being
unnecessary for a particular excavation site:
   A.   Progressive Rehabilitation: The owner or operator shall, at the option
of the planning commission, submit a plan for progressive rehabilitation,
meaning that rehabilitation will commence and be carried on during excavation
operations. When the excavation of an area of two (2) acres or less is
completed per the excavation plan, that area shall be rehabilitated.
Rehabilitation shall proceed as soon as practicable after completion of a
phase, or site if there are no phases, as set forth in the approved excavation
and rehabilitation plan, or as determined by the city engineer.
   B.   Backfilling: Where backfilling is required, the excavated area shall be
graded and backfilled with uncontaminated native materials or topsoil only.
This backfill must be of such material as to support vegetation and grass
growth. The graded or backfilled area shall not be contoured so that it will
collect and permit stagnant water to remain thereon. Peaks and depressions in
the excavation area shall be reduced to a surface which will result in level or
gently sloping topography in substantial conformity to the land area
immediately surrounding the excavation site and which will minimize the
possibility of erosion. In rehabilitation involving material that is of loose
or friable nature, no slope shall be left that exceeds thirty degrees (30°) or
the normal angle of repose of the material involved, whichever is less.
   C.   Grading, Stockpiling, Seeding, Phases, Etc.: Excavations shall be
planned so as to progressively develop the proposed final landforms by grading
and by stockpiling topsoil and overburden materials in areas designated for
future landforms or in excavations where the material will be spread over the
excavation floor where no future excavation is anticipated. Such areas are to
be covered by topsoil, seeded and planted immediately after grading is
completed or within appropriate planting seasons, but in any case, the grading
and planting shall be complete within one year. The rehabilitation plan shall
contain a description of the phased rehabilitation process throughout the
anticipated life of the excavation.
   D.   Final Rehabilitation: Final rehabilitation shall begin immediately for
any site where operations authorized under an excavation conditional use permit
or a legal nonconforming use as referenced in section
5-5-3 of this chapter, have ceased for a period of at least one year, or
otherwise terminated. The final rehabilitation shall conform to the plan
approved (including approved modifications) in the excavation conditional use
permit, or the plan approved for a legal nonconforming use as referenced in
section
5-5-3 of this chapter. All rehabilitation plans shall conform at least to the
below listed minimum standards and other requirements listed elsewhere in this
chapter, as reasonably determined by the planning commission; provided,
however, that the planning commission or city council may require more
stringent standards where special hazards exist in order to protect the health,
safety or general welfare of the public and to prevent injury to property or
improvements:
      1.   Grading: Slopes, overburden stockpiles and abandoned soil piles
shall be graded and smoothed so as to control erosion and prevent the creation
of potentially dangerous areas in accordance with the direction of the city
engineer.
      2.   Water Filled Areas: All excavations which create standing water or
ponds shall be filled with native materials. This requirement shall not apply,
however, to any water filled excavations scheduled to become an integral part
of the final rehabilitation plan. The rehabilitation of these areas shall be
done in such a manner that the ground water is not polluted. Fill material
shall be porous to allow for water dispersion unless otherwise specified in the
rehabilitation plan.
      3.   Landscaping: Unless inconsistent with the final proposed use of the
rehabilitated land, the excavated areas and all other disturbed areas shall be
replanted and maintained with trees, shrubs, grasses or other vegetative ground
cover, preferably native to the area, in order to minimize erosion and to
restore the land to a natural appearance, or to an appearance previously
approved by the city council.
      4.   Removal Of Buildings And Equipment: As soon as excavation has been
permanently terminated, all buildings and equipment (including electrical
conduits) used in the administration of the operations shall be removed, unless
deemed necessary to the approved final use of the rehabilitated site.
      5.   Waiver Of Distance Requirements: In the final year of excavation,
the mining operation may, as part of the rehabilitation project, excavate
closer than two hundred feet (200') to any property lines, but only upon a
showing of compelling mutual good and the approval of the planning commission
and city council.
   E.   Rehabilitation Verification: At the conclusion of excavation operations
and rehabilitation of the excavation site, the city engineer shall present to
the planning commission a statement verifying the permit area or nonconforming
excavation area has been rehabilitated in compliance with the requirements of
this chapter and the excavation and rehabilitation plan previously submitted in
compliance with this chapter. The planning commission shall certify to the city
council that all requirements of this chapter have been met. (1991 Code §
8.44.100, as amended)
5-5-11: SURETY REQUIRED:
   A.   Provision Of Surety Before Operations Begin: After receiving
notification that the application for an excavation conditional use permit has
been approved, but prior to commencement of such operation, the operator shall
provide surety to the city, in a form and amount to be fixed by the city
council, as recommended by the city engineer, sufficient to secure the
performance of the rehabilitation agreement.
   B.   Amount Of Surety: In determining the amount of surety to be provided,
the city engineer shall consider factual information as to the magnitude, type
and costs of approved rehabilitation activities planned for the land affected
and the nature, extent and duration of operations under the excavation and
rehabilitation plan. The city engineer shall determine the amount of the surety
reasonably related thereto, to protect the city and ensure compliance with the
requirements of the excavation conditional use permit; however, the amount of
the surety shall not exceed one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the
estimated cost of rehabilitating the excavation. The surety shall be
periodically reviewed to ensure that the amount of the surety is capable of
insuring adequate rehabilitation.
   C.   Form Of Surety: In determining the form of surety to be provided, the
city council shall approve a method that is consistent with the requirements of
this chapter, which may be one or a combination of corporate surety bond, land,
cash, letter of credit or other deposited securities to which the city shall
have immediate access in the event the owner/operator fails to or refuses to
carry out and complete the necessary and required rehabilitation.
   D.   Releases Of Surety: The liability under surety provisions shall
continue until such time as released as to part, or in its entirety, by the
city council upon completion of the required rehabilitation. Partial releases
may be allowed within the discretion of the city council.
   E.   Forfeiture Of Surety: If the owner/operator fails to or refuses to
carry out the necessary land rehabilitation as outlined in the approved
excavation and rehabilitation plans, the city may, after notice and hearing,
declare any surety filed for this purpose forfeited, or in case of a corporate
bond, file suit against the owner or operator and his bonding company. The city
shall also have the right to file suit against the defaulting permittee for
violations of this chapter or any permit granted, or for costs of
rehabilitation and reasonable attorney fees. The city may also cause the
required rehabilitation to be completed and be reimbursed or pay for such work
out of the surety that was provided. If the provided surety is not sufficient
to pay for all costs so incurred or to be so incurred, the owner/operator shall
be liable to the city for any deficiency and shall pay the same to the city on
demand. (1991 Code § 8.44.110, as amended)
5-5-12: REDUCTION IN REQUIRED OPERATION BOUNDARIES:
Relating to existing operations, where a nonconforming excavation use is
legally proven to have been established or is accepted by city officials as
having been established, the city council may, consistent with the intent of
these regulations and where the character of the terrain, the nature of
ownership of land, the character of surrounding development or other special
conditions would justify such modification, permit a reduction in the required
operation boundaries as stipulated in subsection
5-5-9B of this chapter so as not to impose unreasonable requirements; however,
in no case shall the required distances for any excavation or accessory
structure be less than fifty feet (50') from a residential zone boundary. (1991
Code § 8.44.120, as amended)
5-5-13: VARIANCES:
In cases where unusual topographical, exceptional conditions or hardships
exist, variations and exceptions from this chapter may be made by the city
council for good cause after recommendation by the planning commission. (1991
Code § 8.44.130, as amended)
5-5-14: EXISTING OPERATIONS; COMPLIANCE TIME LIMIT:
Within ten (10) days after the adoption date hereof, all existing excavation
operations shall comply with the provisions set forth in the last sentence of
subsection
5-5-9A, and subsections
5-5-9G and 5-5-9H of this chapter; within ninety (90) days after the adoption
date hereof, all existing excavation operations shall comply with all of the
remaining provisions set forth in the operational requirements of section
5-5-9 of this chapter; and within one year after the adoption date hereof,
existing excavation operations shall comply with all provisions set forth
herein, except those contained in sections
5-5-3,
5-5-4,
5-5-5,
5-5-7 and
5-5-11 of this chapter; provided, however, in no case shall requirements be
imposed that are unreasonable from an engineering standpoint in respect to
conditions resulting from operations related to a nonconforming excavation use
that is legally proven to have been established or is accepted by city
officials as having been established prior to the enactment date hereof. (1991
Code § 8.44.140, as amended)
5-5-15: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
The city manager is hereby designated and authorized as the officer charged
with the enforcement of this chapter and may, in specific instances at his
discretion, delegate this authority to any authorized city employee. (1991 Code
§ 8.44.150, as amended)
5-5-16: INSPECTION AND STOP WORK ORDERS:
It shall be the duty of the city manager to inspect or cause to be inspected at
regular intervals, as often as necessary, all excavations. Where it is
determined by the city manager that any excavation operation is not proceeding
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the city manager may order,
or cause to be ordered, the work at the excavation operation stopped by notice
in writing served on any person engaged in working or causing such work to be
done at the excavation operation, and all persons shall forthwith stop such
work until the excavation operation is brought into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and the city manager authorizes the excavation
operation to proceed. In addition, the city manager may also pursue appropriate
legal action in the courts. Failure to implement administrative or legal action
shall not legalize any violation of this chapter. (1991 Code § 8.44.160, as
amended)
5-5-17: PENALTY:
Any person, owner, operator, corporation, or other entity violating any
provision or provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a class B
misdemeanor, and each such person, owner, operator, corporation, or other
entity shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is committed, continued or permitted. Upon conviction of any such
violation, such person, owner, operator, corporation, or other entity shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Further, the city may revoke the excavation conditional use
permit and business license of any person, owner, operator, corporation or
other entity violating any provision of this chapter in accordance with the
procedures established by city ordinances or state law for such revocations.
(1991 Code § 8.44.170, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
5-5-18: REPEALER:
In the event any part of this chapter is determined to be invalid or
unconstitutional, then, rather than voiding or invalidating the same, whatever
restrictions, requirements or provisions said court determines are reasonable,
valid and constitutional shall be substituted herein and enforced as if a part
of this chapter. In the event said court refuses to so act, then such invalid
or unconstitutional portion shall be deemed stricken from this chapter, but the
remaining provisions shall remain valid. (1991 Code § 18.44.180, as amended)
CHAPTER 6
SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Synthetic Cannabinoids (Spice)
5-6-1: SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS (SPICE):
   A.   Unlawful Acts: Except as authorized by title 58 chapter 37 of the Utah
code, as amended, it is unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally:
      1.   Produce, manufacture, dispense, or
      2.   Possess with intent to produce, manufacture, or dispense, or
      3.   Distribute, or agree, consent, offer, or arrange to distribute, or
      4.   Possess with the intent to distribute, or
      5.   Possess or use synthetic cannabinoids, more specifically identified
as follows:
         a.   1-Pentyl-3- (1-naphthoyl)indole
Some trade or other names: JWH-018;
         b.   1-Butyl-3- (1-naphthoyl)indole
Some trade or other names: JWH-073;
         c.   N-benzylpiperazine
Some trade or other names: BZP;
         d.   1-(3- [trifluoromethylphenyl]) piperazine
Some trade or other names: TFMPP; or
         e.   Any structurally similar analogs of the substances listed above.
   B.   Penalty: A violation of this chapter is a class B misdemeanor.
   C.   Subsequent State Action: If the Utah state legislature adopts a statute
enacting criminal penalties for prohibitions set forth in this chapter, then
upon the effective date of such state statute, provisions of this chapter that
are covered by the state statute shall no longer be deemed effective. Any
violations of this chapter prior to a state statute becoming effective may be
prosecuted. If there are provisions of this chapter that are not covered by the
state statute, those provisions will remain in effect and may be prosecuted.
(Ord. 2010-05, 12-15-2010)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted
6-1-2: Definitions
6-1-3: Prima Facie Speed Limits
6-1-4: Use Of Dynamic Braking Devices Prohibited
6-1-5: Angle Parking
6-1-6: Through Streets; Stop And Yield Intersections
6-1-7: Designation Of Streets And Intersections
6-1-8: Penalty
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
The state traffic rules and regulations, current edition, as compiled, prepared
and published as a code in book form by the Utah department of public safety,
or other authorized agency, and as they may be subsequently amended by
legislative act or executive order, one copy of which has been filed for use
and examination by the public in the office of the city recorder, are approved
and adopted as the traffic code for the city, except as such code may be
altered or modified by the ordinances of the city. Subsequent editions shall be
filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the city recorder
upon receipt by the city, and shall thereupon become the traffic code for the
city. (1991 Code § 10.04.010, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
6-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in the traffic code to:
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY OF THE STATE OF UTAH: The chief of police of the
city or his agent.
LOCAL AUTHORITIES: The governing body of the city.
MAGISTRATE: The justice of the peace or judge of the city.
STATE ROAD COMMISSION OR STATE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION: The city and its
officers, departments, agencies and agents. (1991 Code § 10.04.020, as amended)
6-1-3: PRIMA FACIE SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   When appropriate traffic control or regulatory signs giving notice of
speeds are posted, the prima facie maximum speed limits designated upon said
signs shall apply to the appropriate streets or portions of streets so posted.
(1991 Code § 10.04.030, as amended)
   B.   In the absence of any speed limit sign designating a speed limit
applicable thereto, the prima facie speed limit shall be twenty five (25) miles
per hour. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-4-2009)
6-1-4: USE OF DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICES PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   Definition: A "dynamic braking device" (commonly referred to as a
Jacobs brake, engine brake or compression brake) means a device used primarily
on trucks for the conversion of the engine from an internal combustion engine
to an air compressor.
   B.   Use Of Dynamic Braking Systems Prohibited: It is unlawful for any
person to operate any motor vehicle with a dynamic braking device engaged,
except for the aversion of imminent danger, within the corporate limits of the
city. (1991 Code § 10.04.035, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  5-4-8C of this code.
6-1-5: ANGLE PARKING:
When appropriate traffic control or regulatory signs are posted permitting
angle parking, angle parking shall be permitted on the streets or parts of
streets so posted at the angle designated by the sign. (1991 Code § 10.04.040,
as amended)
6-1-6: THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
When appropriate traffic control or regulatory signs are posted at entrances to
intersections identifying them as stop or yield entrances, such streets are
declared to be stop entrances and yield entrances as designated by said signs.
(1991 Code § 10.04.050, as amended)
6-1-7: DESIGNATION OF STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS:
The governing body shall designate the places at which appropriate traffic
control devices or regulatory signs shall be placed relating to maximum speed
limits, angle parking, through streets, stop and yield intersections and other
regulations governing traffic. (1991 Code § 10.04.060, as amended)
6-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating, causing or permitting violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, unless otherwise provided by
this chapter or by the adopted traffic code. Notwithstanding other language or
provisions in the state traffic rules and regulations, adopted by section
6-1-1 of this chapter, any violator of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; provided, that minimum sentences and all other sanctions
consistent with the aforementioned guidelines and contained in the adopted
traffic code are incorporated in this section by reference. (1991 Code §
10.04.070, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Parking Or Blocking Streets Or Highways
6-2-2: Installation Of Signs
6-2-3: No Parking
6-2-4: Unlawful Parking
6-2-5: Markings To Indicate No Stopping And Parking Regulations
6-2-6: Parking Time Limited On Certain Streets
6-2-7: Penalty
6-2-1: PARKING OR BLOCKING STREETS OR HIGHWAYS:
In addition to the parking provisions contained in the Utah traffic code, as
adopted by the city, it shall be unlawful for any person to: (1991 Code §
10.08.010, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   A.   Remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway in such a
manner as to obstruct the free passage of vehicular or pedestrian traffic
thereon;
   B.   Wilfully remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway in
such manner for more than one minute after being requested to move by any
police officer;
   C.   Wilfully remain on such street or highway in such manner as to obstruct
the free passage of any person or vehicle into or out of any property abutting
upon the street or highway or any property having access to such street or
highway. (1991 Code § 10.08.010, as amended)
6-2-2: INSTALLATION OF SIGNS:
The governing body may authorize or direct any person employed by the city to
erect or install any sign or traffic control device required to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. (1991 Code § 10.08.020, as amended)
6-2-3: NO PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing at any time a
"motor vehicle", as defined in the Utah traffic code, as adopted by the city,
in any of the places described in the appropriate appendix (on file in the
office of the city recorder) when properly posted, except when necessary to
avoid interference with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic control device. (1991 Code § 10.08.030, as amended;
amd. 2009 Code)
6-2-4: UNLAWFUL PARKING:
   A.   Parking At Curb: No motor vehicle shall be parked with the left side of
the vehicle next to the curb, except on one-way streets. It is unlawful to
stand or park any motor vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb
and with the two (2) right wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches (12") of
the regularly established curb line, except on those streets which have been
marked for angle parking; then vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the
curb indicated by such marks.
   B.   Vehicles For Sale: It is unlawful to park any vehicle on any street for
the purpose of displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle from which
merchandise is peddled on any business street.
   C.   Loading Zone: When so posted, it shall be unlawful for the driver of a
passenger vehicle to stand or park such vehicle for a period of time longer
than is permitted by the posted sign for the loading or unloading of
passengers, or for the driver to stand or park any freight carrying motor
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary to load, unload and
deliver materials in any place designated as a loading zone and marked as such.
   D.   Parking Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, except physicians on
emergency calls or designated emergency vehicles when properly posted, to park
any motor vehicle on any street in violation of the posted restrictions.
   E.   Alleys: No person shall park a motor vehicle within an alley in such
manner or under such conditions as to leave less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway available for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position
as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   F.   Cab Stands; Bus Stands: No motor vehicle, other than a licensed
taxicab, shall be parked in any area designated by ordinance as a taxicab stand
and no vehicle other than a bus shall be parked in a place so designated as a
bus loading zone. (1991 Code § 10.08.040, as amended)
   G.   Parking Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to park or leave
standing on any public road, street, alley or city property any motor vehicle,
machinery, whether agricultural or otherwise, implements, equipment or other
personal property of any kind for twenty four (24) or more consecutive hours,
and any vehicle, machinery, implement, equipment or other personal property so
parked or left standing may be impounded or removed by the chief of police or
other properly authorized police officer of the city. For purposes of
impoundment and removal, the chief of police or other peace officer may impound
and remove any such motor vehicle, machinery, implement, equipment or other
personal property, which reasonably appears to have remained unmoved for twenty
four (24) consecutive hours. The cost for impoundment and removal shall be
charged to the owner or any person who claims the impounded item. (1991 Code §
10.08.040, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   H.   Limited Winter Parking: It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to
park any motor vehicle on any street in the city between November 1 of each
year and April 30 of the following year, for a period of time longer than five
(5) minutes when loading or unloading passengers and for a period of time
longer than five (5) minutes when loading or unloading or delivering property
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. This subsection shall not apply to emergency vehicles. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-
21-2007)
   I.   Parking Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to park or leave
standing on any public road, public road right of way, street, alley or city
property any semitractor and/or trailers for longer than one hour unless
actively loading and/or unloading. Such property may be impounded or removed by
the chief of police or other properly authorized police officer of the city.
For purposes of impoundment and removal, the chief of police or other peace
officer may impound or have impounded the semitractor and/or trailer. The cost
for impoundment and removal shall be charged to the owner or any person who
claims the impounded item. (1991 Code § 10.08.040, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
6-2-5: MARKINGS TO INDICATE NO STOPPING AND PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   The public works director or city manager, subject to the prior
approval of the city council, is authorized, after an adequate study, to place
and maintain appropriate signs or traffic markings to indicate standing or
parking regulations. Traffic markings designating zones shall have the meanings
herein set forth: (1991 Code § 10.08.050, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
Yellow or red shall mean no stopping, standing or parking at any time.
   B.   When appropriate signs or traffic curb markings have been erected or
placed according to this section, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle
in any zone in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter. (1991 Code §
10.08.050, as amended)
6-2-6: PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS:
When proper signs or traffic markings are erected or in place by authorization
of the city council in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle or permit such vehicle to remain parked for longer than the time
specified between the hours shown and within the district or upon any of the
streets or parts of streets so designated. (1991 Code § 10.08.060, as amended;
amd. 2009 Code)
   A.   North side of Main Street between 100 East and Center Street:
      1.   No person shall park a vehicle on the north side of Main Street
between 100 East and a point four hundred seventy two feet (472') west between
the posted "Limited Parking" signs for more than thirty (30) consecutive
minutes.
      2.   This parking restriction shall apply between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of every day of the week,
except Sunday.
   B.   South side of 100 South between 100 East and Center Street: No person
shall park a vehicle on the south side of 100 South between 100 East and a
point three hundred thirty feet (330') west between the posted limited parking
signs during the hours, when school is in session, of seven forty five o'clock
(7:45) A.M. to two forty five o'clock (2:45) P.M., except Saturday and Sunday.
(1991 Code § 10.08.060, as amended)
6-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating, causing or permitting violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, unless otherwise provided by
this chapter or by the adopted traffic code. Notwithstanding other language or
provisions in the state traffic rules and regulations, adopted by section
6-1-1 of this title, any violator of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; provided, that minimum sentences and all other sanctions
consistent with the aforementioned guidelines and contained in the adopted
traffic code are incorporated in this section by reference. (1991 Code §
10.08.070, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Street Department
7-1-2: Removal Of Snow
7-1-3: Placing Trash Or Other Obstructions Prohibited
7-1-4: Openings In Streets
7-1-5: Doors Projecting Outward
7-1-6: Discharge Of Water On Sidewalk
7-1-7: Crossing At Intersections
7-1-8: Businesses To Keep Sidewalk Clean
7-1-9: Placing Goods On Sidewalks
7-1-10: Playing On Sidewalks
7-1-11: Congregating On Sidewalks
7-1-1: STREET DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Created: There is created a department of streets, which shall have
general supervision of streets, sidewalks, bridges and other public ways.
   B.   Public Works Director: The department shall be under the direction and
control of the public works director. (1991 Code § 2.28.010, as amended)
   C.   Powers And Duties: The department shall:
      1.   Have charge of the construction, maintenance and repair of streets,
sidewalks, bridges, curbs, gutters, culverts, drains, waterways and other
public ways. It shall have control of all waters flowing on the streets,
sidewalks and public ways, whether originating from storm, flood, drainage or
irrigation waters;
      2.   Keep a record of and promptly investigate all complaints of
defective streets, culverts, drains, ditches, sidewalks and other public ways
and, when proper, repair, replace or take such action as deemed best, and shall
record the action taken on each complaint;
      3.   Enforce the provisions of this code and all ordinances relating to
the maintenance and use of streets, culverts, drains, ditches, waterways,
curbs, gutters, sidewalks and other public ways;
      4.   Repair, or cause to be repaired, all defects coming to the
department's attention and take reasonable precautions to protect the public
from injuries due to such defects pending their repair. (1991 Code § 2.28.020,
as amended)
7-1-2: REMOVAL OF SNOW:
   A.   It is unlawful for the owner, occupant, lessor, or agent of any
property abutting on a paved sidewalk to fail to remove, or have removed, from
such paved sidewalk, all hail, snow or sleet thereon within a reasonable time
after such snow, hail or sleet has fallen. In the case of a storm between the
hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., such sidewalks
shall be cleaned before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of the same day.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person removing snow from the sidewalk, to
deposit snow, dirt, leaves or any other material in the gutter so as to clog or
prevent the free flow of water therein. (1991 Code § 12.08.010, as amended)
7-1-3: PLACING TRASH OR OTHER OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control of any
premises to place, or permit to be placed, upon or in the sidewalk, parking
area, gutter, or on the half of the street next to such premises:
   A.   Any broken wares, glass, filth, rubbish, sweepings, refuse matter, ice,
snow, water, garbage, ashes, tin cans or other like substances; (1991 Code §
12.08.020, as amended)
   B.   Any vehicles, lumber, wood, fencing, building material, dead trees,
tree stumps, merchandise or other thing which shall obstruct such public
street, gutter, parking area or sidewalk, or any part thereof, or the passage
over and upon the same, or any part thereof, except as expressly authorized by
ordinance, without the permission of the governing body first having been
obtained;
   C.   Any permanent or temporary structure, mechanism, device, vehicle, or
other thing of any kind or character, except trees planted pursuant to the
provisions of applicable ordinances. (1991 Code § 12.08.020, as amended; amd.
2009 Code)
7-1-4: OPENINGS IN STREETS:
   A.   It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building having an
opening or doorway upon any street or sidewalk to fail to keep the door or
other covering in good repair and safe for the passage of the customary traffic
on the street or sidewalk. If the owner or occupant of any such building shall
neglect or refuse to repair properly any such door or covering within twenty
four (24) hours after notice from the public works director to do so, the
public works director shall forthwith cause such repairs to be made at the
expense of the owner or occupant.
   B.   It is unlawful to construct or maintain coal holes or other openings in
streets or sidewalks, except with the special permission of the governing body,
and under the direction and supervision of the public works director. (1991
Code § 12.08.030, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
7-1-5: DOORS PROJECTING OUTWARD:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation owning or having the
control or management of any alley, road or passageway to construct or hang
gates or doors to such alley, road or passageway so that the gates or doors
thereto, when open, shall project outwardly more than two feet (2') over or
upon the sidewalk beyond the property line. (1991 Code § 12.08.040, as amended)
7-1-6: DISCHARGE OF WATER ON SIDEWALK:
It is unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control of any
premises to fail, refuse or neglect to prevent water from the roof or eaves of
any house, building or other structure, or from any other source under the
control of such person, to be discharged upon the surface of any sidewalk.
(1991 Code § 12.08.050, as amended)
7-1-7: CROSSING AT INTERSECTIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or park a self-propelled vehicle or
lead, drive or ride any animal upon any sidewalk except across a sidewalk at
established crossings. (1991 Code § 12.08.060, as amended)
7-1-8: BUSINESSES TO KEEP SIDEWALK CLEAN:
It is unlawful for any owners or occupants of any place of business to refuse,
neglect or fail to cause the sidewalk abutting thereon to be swept or cleaned
each morning before the hour of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. (1991 Code §
12.08.070, as amended)
7-1-9: PLACING GOODS ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Sale Or Show: No goods, wares, or merchandise shall be placed,
maintained or permitted for sale or show in or on any parking area, street or
sidewalk beyond two feet (2') from the front line of the lot, without first
obtaining the written approval of the governing body. The governing body's
written approval shall specifically provide that no goods, wares or merchandise
shall be placed in such a manner as to leave less than a six foot (6')
passageway for pedestrians. (1991 Code § 12.08.080, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Receipt Or Delivery: It is unlawful for any person to place, or suffer
to be placed or kept upon any sidewalk, any goods, wares or merchandise which
he may be receiving or delivering, without leaving a foot passageway upon such
sidewalk. It is unlawful for any person receiving or delivering such goods,
wares or merchandise to suffer the same to be or remain on such sidewalk for a
longer period than two (2) hours. (1991 Code § 12.08.090, as amended)
7-1-10: PLAYING ON SIDEWALKS:
Every person who obstructs the sidewalk or street by playing any game or
engaging in any activity which obstructs or endangers the free travel thereon
is guilty of an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 12.08.100, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
7-1-11: CONGREGATING ON SIDEWALKS:
It is an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person or persons to congregate about or upon any
sidewalks, stairway, doorway, window or in front of any business or dwelling
house, theater, lecture room, church or elsewhere and by so doing to obstruct
or interfere with the free passage of persons entering, leaving or occupying
such building or premises. (1991 Code § 12.08.110, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATION PERMITS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Permit Required; Basis For Issuance
7-2-3: Application For Permit
7-2-4: Emergency Work
7-2-5: Fees For Permit
7-2-6: Contents; Duration; Extensions
7-2-7: Transfer Or Assignment Of Permit
7-2-8: Compliance With Specifications And Regulations; Site Permittee
Identification; Barricades
7-2-9: Other Highway Permits
7-2-10: Relocation Of Structures In Public Ways
7-2-11: Impact Of Excavation On Existing Improvements
7-2-12: Restoration Of Public Property
7-2-13: Insurance Requirements
7-2-14: Bond; When Required, Conditions, Warranty
7-2-15: Hold Harmless Agreement; Limitations On City Liability
7-2-16: Work Without Permit
7-2-17: Failure To Comply; Default In Performance
7-2-18: Failure To Conform To Design Standards
7-2-19: Appeal Of Suspension, Revocation Or Stop Order
7-2-20: Tampering With Traffic Barricades
7-2-21: Conflict With Governing Provisions
7-2-22: Penalty
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
APPLICANT: Any person who makes application for a permit.
BUSINESS: Any place in the city in which there is conducted or carried on
principally or exclusively any pursuit or occupation for the purpose of gaining
a livelihood.
CITY: Wellsville City, Utah, a municipal corporation of the state of Utah.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer, or other authorized representative of the
city designated by the mayor or city council.
EMERGENCY: Any unforeseen circumstances or occurrence, the existence of which
constitutes an immediate danger to persons or property, or which causes
interruption of utility or public services.
ENGINEERING REGULATIONS, REGULATIONS, SPECIFICATIONS AND/OR DESIGN STANDARDS:
The latest version of the engineering regulations, specifications, design
standards or criteria published or adopted by the city.
FAILURE: A work site restoration which fails to meet city specifications, or
which results in a deteriorated or substandard condition within the duration of
the warranty period. "Failure" may be settlement of surfaces, deterioration of
materials or other surface irregularities. Measurement of failure shall be
further defined in the engineering regulations.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the right of way.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system and
directly or through one or more affiliates owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
PERMITTEE: Any person which has been issued a permit and thereby has agreed to
fulfill the requirements of this chapter.
PERSON: Any natural person, partnership, firm, association, provider,
corporation, company, organization or entity of any kind.
PIPE DRIVEWAY: A driveway approach which uses a pipe or other means to bridge
the gutter.
PRIVATE DRAIN LINE: A pipe installed solely for the transmission of water
collected or generated on private property, such as drainage, spring or
stormwater, or condensate into the public drainage system.
PROPERTY OWNER: Person or persons who have legal title to property and/or
equitable interest in the property, or the ranking official or agent of a
company having legal title to property and/or equitable interest in the
property.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, system lessee or
public utility company.
PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY: Any company subject to the jurisdiction of the Utah
state public service commission, or any mutual corporation providing gas,
electricity, water, telephone or other utility product or services for use by
the general public.
PUBLIC WAY: Means and includes all public rights of way and easements, public
footpaths, walkways and sidewalks, public streets, public roads, public
highways, public alleys, and public drainageways. It does not, however, include
utility easements not within public ways of the city.
RESELLER: Any person that provides service over a system for which a separate
charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the underlying system
used for the transmission and does not install any system in the rights of way.
RESIDENT: The person or persons currently making their home at a particular
dwelling.
STORM DRAIN: A dedicated pipe, conduit, waterway or ditch installed in a right
of way or easement for the transmission of storm and drainage water. This term
does not include private drain lines.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Any person that leases a system or a specific portion of a
system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles, antennas,
transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and
appurtenances owned, leased or used by a provider located in the construction,
ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a telecommunications system.
WORK SITE RESTORATION: The restoring of the original ground or paved hard
surface area to comply with engineering regulations, and includes, but is not
limited to, repair, cleanup, backfilling, compaction and stabilization, paving
and other work necessary to place the site in acceptable condition following
the conclusion of the work, or the expiration or revocation of the permit.
(1991 Code § 12.24.010, as amended)
7-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; BASIS FOR ISSUANCE:
Any person desiring to perform work of any kind in a public way within the
city, shall make application for a permit. The decision by the city to issue a
permit shall include, among other factors determined by the city, the
following:
   A.   The capacity of the public way to accommodate the facilities or
structures proposed to be installed in the public way;
   B.   The capacity of the public way to accommodate multiple wire, in
addition to cables, conduits, pipes or other facilities or structures of other
users of the public way, such as electrical power, telephone, gas, sewer and
water;
   C.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements or landscaping previously existing in the public way;
   D.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction from numerous excavations of the public way. (1991 Code §
12.24.020, as amended)
7-2-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for a permit shall be filed with the city engineer on a form or
forms to be furnished by the city. Property owners and/or tenants for whom work
is being done shall be responsible for obtaining the permits; provided,
however, contractors may obtain the permit in the contractor's name.
   A.   Eligible Applicants: No person shall be eligible to apply for or
receive permits to do work within the public ways of the city, save and except
the following:
      1.   Contractors licensed by the state as general contractors;
      2.   Providers;
      3.   Property owners installing, replacing or maintaining less than five
hundred (500) square feet or one hundred (100) linear feet of sidewalk, curb
and gutter, or driveway approach, or other work approved by the city engineer,
upon a portion of the public way adjacent to their residence; or
      4.   Persons offering a service which requires occupation of the public
way, such as scaffold or staging, staging of a crane, installation or
maintenance of electric signs, glass, awnings and painting or cleaning of
buildings or sign boards or other structures.
   B.   Denial Based On Past Performance: The city engineer may deny the
issuance of permits to contractors, utility companies or other permit
applicants who have shown by past performance that in the opinion of the city
engineer they will not consistently conform to the engineering regulations,
specifications, design standards or the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Plans May Be Required: When necessary, in the judgment of the city
engineer, to fully determine the relationship of the work proposed to existing
or proposed facilities within the public ways, or to determine whether the work
proposed complies with the engineering regulations, construction specifications
and design standards, the city engineer may require the filing of engineering
plans, specifications and sketches showing the proposed work in sufficient
detail to permit determination of such relationship or compliance, or both, and
the application shall be deemed suspended until such plans and sketches are
filed and approved.
   D.   Permit And Approval Required: It is unlawful for any person to commence
work upon any public way until the city engineer has approved the application
and until a permit has been issued for such work, except as specifically
approved to the contrary in this chapter.
   E.   Appeal Of Decision: The disapproval or denial of an application by the
city engineer may be appealed by the applicant to the city council by filing of
a written notice of appeal within ten (10) days of the action of the city
engineer. The city council shall hear such appeal, if written request therefor
be timely filed, as soon as practicable, and render its decision within a
reasonable time following notice of such appeal.
   F.   Limitation Of Authority: In approving or disapproving work within any
public way, or permits therefor, in the inspection of such work; in reviewing
plans, sketches or specifications; and generally in the exercise of the
authority conferred upon him/her by this chapter, the city engineer shall act
in such manner as to preserve and protect the public way and the use thereof,
but shall have no authority to govern the actions or inaction of permittees and
applicants or other persons which have no relationship to the use, preservation
or protection of the public way.
   G.   When Permit Not Required: It is lawful for a city, county, state,
federal or other government employee to perform routine maintenance work, not
involving excavations, without first having obtained a permit therefor.
   H.   Hand Digging Excavations: A permit is not required from the city
engineer for hand digging excavations for installation or repair of sprinkler
systems and landscaping within the nonpaved areas of the public way. However,
conformance to all city specifications is required. (1991 Code § 12.24.030, as
amended)
7-2-4: EMERGENCY WORK:
   A.   Any person maintaining pipes, lines or facilities in the public way may
proceed with work upon existing facilities without a permit when emergency
circumstances demand the work to be done immediately; provided, a permit could
not reasonably and practicably have been obtained beforehand.
   B.   In the event that emergency work is commenced on or within any public
way of the city during regular business hours, the city engineer shall be
notified within one-half (1/2) hour from the time the work is commenced. The
person commencing and conducting such work shall take all necessary safety
precautions for the protection of the public and the direction and control of
traffic, and shall ensure that work is accomplished according to city
engineering regulations, the manual on uniform traffic control devices and
other applicable laws, regulations or generally recognized practices in the
industry.
   C.   Any person commencing emergency work in the public way during other
than business hours without a permit shall immediately thereafter apply for a
permit or give notice during the first hour of the first regular business day
on which city offices are open for business after such work is commenced. A
permit for such emergency work may be issued which shall be retroactive to the
date when the work was begun, at the discretion of the city engineer. (1991
Code § 12.24.040, as amended)
7-2-5: FEES FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Requirements: The city shall charge and the permittee shall pay upon
issuance of the permit, fees for costs associated with the work performed under
the permit as outlined in the city fee schedule. Such costs could include costs
for reviewing the project and issuing the permit, inspections of the project,
deterioration of the public way or diminution of the useful life of the public
way, and other costs to the city associated with the work to be done under the
permit. All costs shall be assessed in a nondiscriminatory manner.
   B.   Waiver: The city engineer may waive permit fees or penalties or portion
thereof provided for in this chapter, when he/she determines that such permit
fee or penalty:
      1.   Pertains to construction or rehabilitation of housing for persons
whose income is below the median income level for the city; or
      2.   Pertains to an encroachment on the public way involving a
beautification project which furthers specific goals and objectives set forth
in the city strategic plan, master plans or other official documents, including
decorative street lighting, building facade lighting, flower and planter boxes,
and landscaping.
   C.   Additional Costs: Additional charges to cover the reasonable cost and
expenses of any required engineering review, inspection and work site
restoration associated with each undertaking may be charged by the city to each
permittee, in addition to the permit fee. (1991 Code § 12.24.050, as amended)
7-2-6: CONTENTS; DURATION; EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Starting, Completion Dates; Notification:
      1.   Each permit application shall state the starting date and estimated
completion date. Work shall be completed within five (5) days from the starting
date or as determined by the city engineer. Such determination shall be based
upon factors reasonably related to the work to be performed under the permit.
Such factors may include, in addition to other factors related to the work to
be performed, the following:
         a.   The scope of work to be performed under the permit;
         b.   Maintaining the safe and effective flow of pedestrian and
vehicular traffic on the public way affected by the work;
         c.   Protecting the existing improvements to the public way impacted
by the work;
         d.   The season of the year during which the work is to be performed,
as well as the current weather and its impact on public safety and the use of
the public way by the public;
         e.   Use of the public way for extraordinary events anticipated by the
city.
      2.   The city engineer shall be notified by the permittee of commencement
of the work within twenty four (24) hours prior to commencing work. The permit
shall be valid for the time period specified in the permit.
   B.   Extension:
      1.   If the work is not completed during such period, prior to the
expiration of the permit, the permittee may apply to the city engineer for an
additional permit or an extension, which may be granted by the city engineer
for good cause shown.
      2.   The length of the extension requested by the permittee shall be
subject to the approval of the city engineer. No extension shall be made that
allows work to be completed in the winter period without payment of winter
fees. (1991 Code § 12.24.060, as amended)
7-2-7: TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT OF PERMIT:
Permits shall not be transferable or assignable, and work shall not be
performed under a permit in any place other than that specified in the permit.
Nothing contained in this section shall prevent a permittee from subcontracting
the work to be performed under a permit; provided, however, that the holder of
the permit shall be and remain responsible for the performance of the work
under the permit, and for all bonding, insurance and other requirements of this
chapter and under the permit. (1991 Code § 12.24.070, as amended)
7-2-8: COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS AND REGULATIONS; SITE PERMITTEE
IDENTIFICATION; BARRICADES:
   A.   The work performed in the public way shall conform to the requirements
of the engineering regulations, design standards, construction specifications
and traffic control regulations of the city, copies of which shall be available
from the city engineer, kept on file in the office of the city recorder and be
open to public inspection during office hours.
   B.   Where a job site is left unattended before completion of the work,
signage with minimum two inch (2") high letters shall be attached to a
barricade or otherwise posted at the site, indicating the permittee's name, or
company name, telephone number and after hours telephone number.
   C.   All excavations shall be conducted in a manner resulting in a minimum
amount of interference or interruption of street or pedestrian traffic.
Inconvenience to residents and businesses fronting on the public way shall be
minimized. Suitable, adequate and sufficient barricades and/or other structures
will be available and used where necessary to prevent accidents involving
property or persons. Barricades must be in place until all of the permittee's
equipment is removed from the site and the excavation has been backfilled and
proper temporary gravel surface is in place, except where backfilling and
resurfacing is to be done by the city; in which case the barricades, together
with any necessary lights, flares or torches, must remain in place until the
backfill work is actually commenced by the city. From sunset to sunrise, all
barricades and excavations must be clearly outlined by adequate signal lights,
torches, etc. The police department and fire department shall be notified at
least twenty four (24) hours in advance of any planned excavation requiring
street closure or traffic detour. (1991 Code § 12.24.080, as amended)
7-2-9: OTHER HIGHWAY PERMITS:
   A.   Holders of permits for work on highways owned or under the jurisdiction
of other government entities, but located within the city limits, shall not be
required to obtain permits from the city under the provisions of this chapter,
unless the work extends beyond the backside of the curb, or beyond any other
designated jurisdictional boundary. Any city permit shall not be construed to
permit or allow work on a county road, or on a state highway within the city
without an applicable county or state permit.
   B.   The city engineer, in his or her discretion, shall have the right and
authority to regulate work under permits issued by other governmental entities
with respect to hours and days of work, and measures required to be taken by
the permittee of such governmental entity for the protection of traffic and
safety of persons and property. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to impose any duty, implied or express, on the city
or its employees, officers, agents or assigns, relative to the protection of
traffic and safety of persons or property, arising out of the issuance of any
permit issued by government entities other than the city, or arising out of any
work performed on any public way owned or within the jurisdiction of the city.
(1991 Code § 12.24.090, as amended)
7-2-10: RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES IN PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   The city engineer may direct any person owning or maintaining
facilities or structures in the public way to alter, modify or relocate such
facilities or structures as the city engineer may require as set forth in this
section. Sewers, pipes, drains, tunnels, conduits, pipe driveways, vaults,
trash receptacles and overhead and underground gas, electric, telephone,
telecommunication and communication facilities shall specifically be subject to
such directives. The person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures
shall, at their own cost and expense and upon reasonable written notice by the
city, promptly protect, or promptly alter or relocate, such facilities or
structures, or part thereof, as directed by the city. In the event that such
person refuses or neglects to conform to the directive of the city, the city
shall have the right to break through, remove, alter or relocate such part of
the facilities or structures without liability to such person. Such person
shall pay to the city all costs incurred by the city in connection with such
work performed by the city, including all design, engineering, construction,
materials, insurance, court costs and attorney fees.
   B.   Any directive by the city engineer shall be based upon the following:
      1.   The facility or structure was installed, erected or is being
maintained contrary to law, or determined by the city engineer to be
structurally unsound or defective;
      2.   The facility or structure constitutes a "nuisance", as defined under
state statute;
      3.   The permit under which the facility or structure was installed has
expired or has been revoked;
      4.   The public way is about to be repaired or improved and such
facilities or structures may pose a hindrance to construction; or
      5.   The grades or lines of the public way are to be altered or changed.
   C.   Any directive of the city engineer under this section shall be under
and consistent with the city police power. Unless an emergency condition
exists, the city engineer shall make a good faith effort to consult with the
person regarding any condition that may result in a removal or relocation of
facilities in the public way to consider possible avoidance or minimization of
removal or relocation requirements and provide the directive as far enough in
advance of the required removal or relocation to allow the person a reasonable
opportunity to plan and minimize cost associated with the required removal or
relocation.
   D.   This obligation does not apply to facilities or structures originally
located on private property pursuant to a private easement, which property was
later incorporated into the public way, if that prior private easement grants a
superior vested right. (1991 Code § 12.24.100, as amended)
   E.   Any person owning or maintaining facilities or structures in the public
way who fails to alter, modify or relocate such facilities or structures upon
notice to do so by the city engineer shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. All costs of alteration, modification or relocation shall
be borne by the person owning or, maintaining the facilities or structures
involved. (1991 Code § 12.24.100, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   F.   The city may, at any time, in case of fire, disaster or other
emergency, as determined by the city in its reasonable discretion, cut or move
any parts of the system and appurtenances on, over or under the public way, in
which event the city shall not be liable therefor to a person. The city shall
notify a person in writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon
as possible and in no case later than the next business day following any
action taken under this subsection. (1991 Code § 12.24.100, as amended)
7-2-11: IMPACT OF EXCAVATION ON EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Blocked Sidewalks: If any sidewalk or curb ramp is blocked by
excavation work, a temporary sidewalk or curb ramp shall be constructed or
provided. Such temporary improvement shall be safe for travel and convenient
for users, and consistent with city standards for such.
   B.   Temporary Gravel Surfaces For Paved Areas: Where excavations are made
in paved areas, the surface shall be replaced with a temporary gravel surface
until such time as the permanent repairs are completed.
   C.   Disturbance Of Yard, Residence Or Property:
      1.   At any time a permittee disturbs the yard, residence or the real or
personal property of a private property owner or the city, such permittee shall
ensure that such property is returned, replaced and/or restored to a condition
that is comparable to the condition that existed prior to the commencement of
the work.
      2.   The costs associated with the disturbance and the return,
replacement and/or restoration shall be borne by the permittee. Further, a
permittee shall reimburse a property owner or the city, for any actual damage
caused by the permittee, its subcontractor, or its independent contractor, in
connection with the disturbance of such property.
      3.   However, nothing in this subsection shall require the permittee to
pay a subscriber or private property owner when that subscriber or private
property owner requests that the permittee remove, replace or relocate
improvements associated with the service provided by the permittee to the
property owner and when the permittee exercises due care in the performance of
that service, or when the subscriber or private property owner provided false
information to the permittee on which the permittee relied to its detriment.
   D.   Acts Included: Examples of types of acts specifically included in this
section are the following:
      1.   Removal of sod, lawn, shrubbery, flowers, trees, driveways or fence,
to install, trench, repair, replace, remove or locate, equipment, cable or
other appurtenances of the permittee;
      2.   Installation or removal of equipment or other appurtenances of the
permittee's system within a private property owner's property or residence
which requires drilling, excavating, plastering, or the like on the part of the
permittee;
      3.   Temporarily relocating or moving a piece of personal property or a
fixture of a private property owner (such as a motor vehicle, fence, air
conditioning, heating unit, or the like) in order to perform some sort of
construction, maintenance or repair by the permittee; or
      4.   Permanently removing a permittee's equipment or other appurtenances
due to the revocation, termination or nonrenewal of the franchise (if
applicable).
   E.   Water Flow Uninterrupted: Existing drainage channels, such as gutters
or ditches, shall be kept free of dirt or other debris so that natural flow
will not be interrupted. When it is necessary to block or otherwise interrupt
flow of the drainage channel, a method of rerouting the flow must be submitted
for approval by the city engineer prior to the blockage of the channel.
   F.   Subcontractors: The requirements imposed upon the permittee extend to
any subcontractor or independent contractor that the permittee might employee
to perform the tasks pursuant to the permit.
   G.   Exception: The requirements of this section shall not apply to the
removal by a permittee, of a permanent structure placed by a property owner in
a public way, unless such property owner has received prior written permission
from the city granting the property owner the right to install a permanent
structure on a public way, and such written permission has been recorded in the
office of the county recorder. (1991 Code § 12.24.110, as amended)
7-2-12: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Required: The permittee shall, at its own expense, restore the surface
of any public way to its original condition and replace any removed or damaged
pavement with the same type and depth of pavement as that which is adjoining,
including the gravel base material. All restoration shall conform to the
engineering regulations, design standards and specifications promulgated by the
city and shall be accomplished within the time limits set forth in the permit,
unless additional time is granted in writing by the department.
   B.   Restoration By City: At its option, the permittee doing the actual
excavation work may request that the city restore the surface to its original
condition. The fee for such resurfacing shall be determined by the city
engineer in accordance with its reasonable costs for such work and shall be
charged to the person, firm or corporation making the excavation. Payment for
such work shall be received by the city prior to the release of the bond. (1991
Code § 12.24.120, as amended)
7-2-13: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Limits Required: Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall furnish
to the city evidence that such applicant has a comprehensive general liability
and property damage policy that includes contractual liability coverage
endorsed with the following limits and provisions or with such alternative
limits and provisions as may be approved by the city:
      1.   A minimum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined single
limit per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury and property damage and
not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) in the aggregate. The general
aggregate limit shall apply separately to the permit, or the general aggregate
limit shall be two (2) times the required occurrence limit. The coverage shall
be in the nature of broad form commercial general liability coverage. The city
attorney may increase or decrease minimum insurance limits, depending on the
potential liability of any project.
      2.   All policies shall include the city, its employees, officers,
officials, agents, volunteers and assigns, as insureds. Any reference to the
city shall include the city, its employees, officers, officials, agents,
volunteers and assigns.
      3.   The coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the city, its
employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers and assigns. Any insurance
or self-insurance maintained by the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns shall be in excess of the permittee's insurance
and shall not contribute to or with it.
      4.   Any failure to comply with reporting provisions of the policy shall
not effect coverage provided to the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns.
      5.   Coverage shall state that the permittee's insurance shall apply
separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought,
except with respect to the limits of the insurer's liability.
      6.   Underwriters shall have no right of recovery or subrogation against
the city, it being the intent of the parties that the insurance policy so
affected shall protect both parties and be primary coverage for any and all
losses covered by the described insurance.
      7.   The insurance companies issuing the policy or policies shall have no
recourse against the city for payment of any premiums due or for any
assessments under any form of any policy.
      8.   Each insurance policy shall be endorsed to state that the coverage
shall not be suspended, voided, canceled or reduced in coverage or in limits,
except after thirty (30) days' prior written notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested, sent to the city.
      9.   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, save harmless and defend
the city and its officers and employees against any claim or loss, damage or
expense sustained on account of damages to persons or property occurring by
reason of permit work done by the permittee, his/her subcontractor or agent,
whether or not the work has been completed and whether or not the right of way
has been opened to public travel.
      10.   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, hold harmless and
defend the city, and its officers and employees against any claim or loss,
damage or expense sustained by any person occurring by reason of doing any work
pursuant to the permit, including, but not limited to, falling objects or
failure to maintain proper barricades and/or lights as required from the time
work begins until the work is completed and right of way is opened for public
use.
   B.   Carrier Rating: Insurance is to be placed with insurers with an AM Best
rating of no less than an A carrier, with a rating of 7 or higher.
   C.   Certificates And Endorsements: The permittee shall furnish the city
with certificates of insurance and original endorsements affecting coverage
required by the permit. The certificates and endorsements for each insurance
policy are to be signed by a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage
on its behalf. The city expressly reserves the right to require complete,
certified copies of all required insurance policies at any time. Consequently,
the permittee shall be prepared to provide such copies prior to the issuance of
the permit.
   D.   Unsatisfactory Policy: If any of the required policies are, or at any
time become, unsatisfactory to the city as to form or substance, or if a
company issuing any such policy is, or at any time becomes, unsatisfactory to
the city, the permittee shall promptly obtain a new policy, submit the same to
the city for approval, and thereafter submit verification of coverage as
required by the city. Upon failure to furnish, deliver and maintain such
insurance as provided in this section, the city may declare the permit to be in
default and pursue any and all remedies the city may have at law or in equity,
including those actions outlined in this chapter.
   E.   Subcontractors Included: The permittee shall include all subcontractors
as insured under its policies or shall furnish separate certificates and
endorsements for each subcontractor. All coverages for subcontractors shall be
subject to all of the requirements stated in this section.
   F.   Deductibles And Retentions Require City Approval: Any deductibles or
self-insured retentions shall be declared to and approved by the city. At the
option of the city, either the insurer shall reduce or eliminate such
deductibles or self-insured retentions as respects the city, its employees,
officers, officials, agents, volunteers or assigns, or the permittee shall
procure a bond, in a form acceptable to the city, guaranteeing payment of
losses and related investigations, claim administration and defense expenses.
   G.   Homeowner's Policy: A property owner performing work adjacent to his/
her residence may submit proof of a homeowner's insurance policy in lieu of the
insurance requirements of this section.
   H.   Circumstances For Relief Of Not Supplying Certificates: A provider may
be relieved of the obligation of submitting certificates of insurance under the
following circumstances:
      1.   If such company shall submit satisfactory evidence in advance that:
         a.   It is insured in the amounts set forth in this chapter, or has
complied with state requirements to become self-insured. Public utilities may
submit annually evidence of insurance coverage in lieu of individual
submissions for each permit; and
         b.   Such coverage provides to the city the same scope of coverage
that would otherwise be provided by a separate policy as required by this
chapter; or
      2.   The work to be performed under the permit issued to the applicant is
to be performed by the city, in which case insurance or other risk transfer
issues shall be negotiated between the city and the applicant by separate
agreement. (1991 Code § 12.24.130, as amended)
7-2-14: BOND; WHEN REQUIRED, CONDITIONS, WARRANTY:
   A.   Requirements: Except as noted in this chapter, each applicant, before
being issued a permit, shall provide the city with an acceptable security (this
may include a corporate surety bond, cash bond or letter of credit, as
determined by the city) in the amount set by the city engineer and equal to one
hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the reasonable value of the improvements
authorized by the permit issued hereunder, to guarantee faithful performance of
the work authorized by a permit granted pursuant to this chapter. The amount of
the security required may be increased or decreased at the discretion of the
city engineer whenever it appears that the amount and cost of the work to be
performed, and not satisfactorily completed, may vary from the amount of
security otherwise required under this chapter. The form of the security and
the entity issuing the security shall be subject to the approval of the city
attorney.
   B.   Waiver For Public Utilities: Public utilities franchised by the city
shall not be required to file any security if such requirement is expressly
waived in the franchise documents.
   C.   Conditions Of Security: The security required by this section shall be
conditioned as follows:
      1.   The permittee shall fully comply with the requirements of the city
ordinances and regulations, specifications and standards promulgated by the
city relative to work in the public way, and respond to the city in damages for
failure to conform therewith;
      2.   After work is commenced, the permittee shall proceed with diligence
and expedition and shall promptly complete such work and restore the public way
to construction specifications, so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary;
      3.   The permittee shall guarantee the materials and workmanship for a
period of two (2) years from completion of such work, with reasonable wear and
tear excepted; and
      4.   Unless authorized by the city engineer on the permit, all paving,
resurfacing or replacement of street facilities on major or collector streets
shall be done in conformance with the regulations contained in this chapter
within three (3) calendar days, and within seven (7) calendar days from the
time the excavation commences on all other streets, except as provided for
during excavation in winter or during weather conditions which do not allow
paving according to engineering regulations. In winter, a temporary patch must
be provided. In all excavations, restoration of pavement surfaces shall be made
immediately after backfilling is completed or concrete is cured. If work is
expected to exceed the above duration, the permittee shall submit a detailed
construction schedule for approval. The schedule will address means and methods
to minimize traffic disruption and complete the construction as soon as
reasonably possible. (1991 Code § 12.24.140, as amended)
7-2-15: HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT; LIMITATIONS ON CITY LIABILITY:
   A.   Hold Harmless Agreement: The permittee agrees to save the city, its
officers, employees and agents harmless from any and all costs, damages and
liabilities which may accrue or be claimed to accrue by reason of any work
performed under the permit. The issuance and acceptance of any permit under
this chapter shall constitute such an agreement by the permittee to this
section.
   B.   City Liability: This chapter shall neither be construed as imposing
upon the city, its officers, employees and agents, any liability or
responsibility for damages to any person injured by or by reason of the
performance of any work within the public way, or under a permit issued
pursuant to this chapter; nor shall the city, its officers, officials,
employees, agents, volunteers or assigns thereof be deemed to have assumed any
such liability or responsibility by reason of inspection authorized hereunder,
the issuance of any permit, or the approval of any work. (1991 Code §
12.24.150, as amended)
7-2-16: WORK WITHOUT PERMIT:
   A.   Stop Order: A stop order may be issued by the city engineer directed to
any person or persons doing or causing any work to be done in the public way
without a permit.
   B.   Fee: Any person found to be doing work in the public way without having
obtained a permit, as provided in this chapter, shall be required to pay a
permit fee equal to two (2) times the normal permit fee. For replacement work,
where a fee is not normally charged, the normal permit fee for new construction
shall apply. (1991 Code § 12.24.160, as amended)
7-2-17: FAILURE TO COMPLY; DEFAULT IN PERFORMANCE:
   A.   Notice Required: Any permit may be revoked or suspended and a stop
order issued by the city engineer, after notice to the permittee for:
      1.   Violation of any condition of the permit, the security, or of any
provision of this chapter;
      2.   Violation of any provision of any other ordinance of the city or law
relating to the work; or
      3.   Existence of any condition or the doing of any act which does
constitute, may constitute, or cause a condition endangering life or property.
   B.   Effect Of Order: A suspension or revocation by the city engineer, and a
stop order, shall take effect immediately upon entry thereof by the city
engineer and notice to the person performing the work in the public way. Notice
to the person performing the work shall be accomplished when the city engineer
has posted a stop work order at the location of the work and written notice has
been mailed, return receipt requested, to the address indicated by the
permittee on the permit.
   C.   Default: Whenever the city engineer finds that a default has occurred
in the performance of any term or condition of the permit, written notice
thereof may be given to the principal and to the surety on the bond, if there
is a surety bond. Such notice shall state the work to be done, the estimated
cost thereof, and the period of time deemed by the city engineer to be
reasonably necessary for the completion of the work.
   D.   Performance By City: In the event that the surety (or principal),
within a reasonable time following the giving of such notice (taking into
consideration the exigencies of the situation, the nature of the work, the
requirements of public safety and for the protection of persons and property),
fails either to commence and cause the required work to be performed with due
diligence, or to indemnify the city for the cost of doing the work, as set
forth in the notice, the city may perform the work, at the discretion of the
city engineer, with city forces or contract forces, or both, and suit may be
commenced by the city attorney against the contractor and bonding company and
such other persons as may be liable, to recover the entire amount due to the
city, including attorney fees, on account thereof. In the event that cash has
been deposited, the cost of performing the work may be charged against the
amount deposited, and suit brought for the balance due, if any. (1991 Code §
12.24.170, as amended)
7-2-18: FAILURE TO CONFORM TO DESIGN STANDARDS:
For failure to conform to the design standards and regulations, the city
engineer may:
   A.   Suspend or revoke the permit;
   B.   Issue a stop order;
   C.   Order removal and replacement of faulty work;
   D.   Require an extended warranty period; and/or
   E.   Negotiate a cash settlement to be applied toward future maintenance
costs. (1991 Code § 12.24.180, as amended)
7-2-19: APPEAL OF SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR STOP ORDER:
Any suspension, revocation or stop order by the city engineer may be appealed
by the permittee to the city council by filing a written notice of appeal
within ten (10) days of the action of the city engineer. The city council shall
hear such appeal, if written request therefor be timely filed, as soon as
practicable, and render its decision within a reasonable time following filing
of notice of appeal. (1991 Code § 12.24.190, as amended)
7-2-20: TAMPERING WITH TRAFFIC BARRICADES:
It is unlawful for any person to maliciously or wantonly or without
authorization and legal cause, extinguish, remove or diminish any light
illuminating any barricade or excavation, or to tear down, remove or in any
manner alter any rail, fence or barricade protecting any excavation or other
construction site. (1991 Code § 12.24.200, as amended)
7-2-21: CONFLICT WITH GOVERNING PROVISIONS:
Should there be a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any other ordinance, agreement, franchise, or other document
governing the excavation of a public way, the more restrictive provisions of
the aforesaid documents shall apply. (1991 Code § 12.24.210, as amended)
7-2-22: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a violation of any provision of
this chapter, or failure to comply with an order of suspension, revocation or
stop work, shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day the violation exists shall be a separate offense.
No criminal conviction shall excuse the person from otherwise complying with
the provisions of this chapter. (1991 Code § 12.24.220, as amended; amd. 2009
Code)
CHAPTER 3
CEMETERY
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Name Of Cemetery Designated
7-3-3: Applicability
7-3-4: Cemetery Superintendent
7-3-5: Burials
7-3-6: Prohibited Burials And Disinterments
7-3-7: Vaults Required
7-3-8: Religious And Fraternal Organizations
7-3-9: Sales Subject To Rules And Regulations
7-3-10: Fees For Services
7-3-11: Sale Of Lots
7-3-12: Restrictions Of Resale
7-3-13: Care Reserved By City
7-3-14: Perpetual Care
7-3-15: City Not Responsible For Errors
7-3-16: Traffic Rules
7-3-17: Children
7-3-18: Animals
7-3-19: Decorum
7-3-20: Injury To Cemetery Property Prohibited
7-3-21: Landscaping By Private Persons
7-3-22: Markers And Monuments
7-3-23: Establishing Additional Rules And Regulations
7-3-24: Reversion Of Lots For Nonpayment
7-3-25: Burial Of Indigents
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words or phrases shall have the following meanings, unless the
context otherwise clearly requires:
LOT: Means and includes the partial lots or single graves in the city cemetery.
LOT OWNER OR PURCHASER AND GRAVE OWNER OR PURCHASER: The owner or purchaser of
burial privileges or the collateral right of use of any burial lot evidenced by
a deed or burial right for a described lot or by proved and recognized descent
or devise from the original owner.
PERPETUAL CARE OR PREPAID CONTINUED MAINTENANCE: Wherever the term "perpetual
care" appears in this chapter or any other ordinance or resolution of the city,
the term "prepaid continued maintenance" may be substituted for the term
"perpetual care", and the two (2) terms may be used interchangeably when the
context of the ordinance or resolution requires, given the termination of the
perpetual care trust fund in March 1992. (1991 Code § 12.20.010, as amended)
7-3-2: NAME OF CEMETERY DESIGNATED:
The burial ground of the city shall be known and designated by the name of
Wellsville City cemetery. (1991 Code § 12.20.020, as amended)
7-3-3: APPLICABILITY:
All cemeteries owned and/or maintained by the city or which may hereafter be
acquired by the city, wherever situated, are declared subject to the provisions
of this chapter. (1991 Code § 12.20.030, as amended)
7-3-4: CEMETERY SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Created: There is created the position of cemetery superintendent.
(1991 Code § 12.20.040, as amended)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The cemetery superintendent shall have the general
supervision and administration of the city cemetery, including, but not limited
to:
      1.   Recommending to the governing body such additional rules and
regulations as may be necessary for the operation, maintenance, use and
protection of the cemetery;
      2.   Subdividing the cemetery into lots and grave sites;
      3.   Maintaining a record of the location of the graves and preventing
any lot from being used beyond its capacity;
      4.   Keeping in proper repair the enclosure around the cemetery and
preventing its being entered by animals and, so far as practical, preventing
the destruction or defacing of any tablet or marker placed or erected therein;
      5.   Keeping a duplicate plat of the cemetery and, at the request of any
person wishing to purchase any of the lots or parts of lots, pointing out any
of the lots or parts of lots for sale; and upon disposal of any lots or part
thereof, notifying the city recorder of such fact. The city recorder shall,
after payment of the lot price has been received in the treasury, issue a
certificate of burial right, which shall describe the lot or grave to which the
right to burial is granted. The certificate shall be signed by the mayor and
the city recorder;
      6.   Opening any graves in the cemetery upon application to him being
made by the city recorder, or by any person having the right to make such
application, and being responsible for closing all graves;
      7.   Removing floral pieces or displays left on any grave as deemed
necessary to the appearance of the cemetery, but such floral pieces or displays
shall not be removed sooner than three (3) days after original placement,
except in emergency;
      8.   Keeping the streets, alleys, walks and avenues in the cemetery in
good order and unobstructed;
      9.   Erecting a suitable marker firmly set upon the northwest corner of
each lot with the number of the lot inscribed thereon and which location shall
be shown on the cemetery records. (1991 Code § 12.20.050, as amended)
7-3-5: BURIALS:
   A.   Permit Required: Before any deceased person is buried in the city
cemetery, a permit properly issued by the registrar of the registration
district in which the death occurred or, in the absence of such registrar, a
permit duly issued by the state division of health or other authorized person
shall be required by the cemetery superintendent. After burial, the cemetery
superintendent shall endorse upon the permit a description of the location
where the deceased is buried and shall enter all of the information contained
in the permit in the cemetery records. (1991 Code § 12.20.060, as amended)
   B.   Certificate Of Burial Right: It is unlawful for any person to bury the
body of a deceased person in the city cemetery without first obtaining a
certificate of burial right for the lot used or producing satisfactory evidence
of a right to burial based on a properly acquired certificate of burial right.
(1991 Code § 12.20.070, as amended)
   C.   Registration Of Burials: Before any deceased person may be buried in
the city cemetery, the relatives or person having charge of the deceased shall
provide the city recorder with a written statement, which shall be filed by the
city recorder, which statement shall contain, if known, information about the
deceased regarding his or her name, when and where born, the date and cause of
death, the name of the attending physician, date of burial, name of cemetery
and the description of the location of the grave. (1991 Code § 12.20.080, as
amended)
   D.   All property including lots, plots, and grave spaces within the
cemetery are owned by the City. A burial right is simply a right to be buried
in the cemetery.
   E.   Burials Per Space: Only one (1) burial shall be allowed per space.
Exceptions include:
      1.   The burial of two (2) infants or two (2) cremated remains as space
in the lot may permit; or
      2.   Placement of an infant or cremation buried on top of an existing
grave of a family member as space in the lot may permit, and with the written
approval of the lot owner and sexton. (Ord. 2018-01, 4-4-2018)
7-3-6: PROHIBITED BURIALS AND DISINTERMENTS:
   A.   It is an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to:
      1.   Disinter any body buried in any cemetery, except under the direction
of the cemetery superintendent who shall, before disinterment, require a
written permission from both the county health officer and the owner of the lot
or his or her heirs, which written authorization shall be filed and preserved
in a record kept for such purposes;
      2.   Disinter or remove the body of a person who has died from a
contagious disease within two (2) years after the date of burial, unless the
body was buried in a hermetically sealed casket or vault and is found to be so
incased at the time of disinterment.
   B.   It is an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to inter anything other than the remains of human bodies in
the cemetery.
   C.   It is an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to bury the body of any person within the city except in
the city cemetery or a private cemetery, unless by special permission of the
governing body under such rules and regulations that it may prescribe. (1991
Code § 12.20.090, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
7-3-7: VAULTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Approved Materials: Unless in writing waived by the cemetery
superintendent, it is unlawful for any person to be buried in the cemetery
unless the casket shall be placed in a vault made of concrete, fiberglass,
steel, or brick lined or of such other material approved by the governing body,
substantially constructed and covered with a similar durable material.
   B.   Wood Prohibited: No wood shall be used as a permanent part of the
construction of any part of the vault. (1991 Code § 12.20.100, as amended)
7-3-8: RELIGIOUS AND FRATERNAL ORGANIZATIONS:
The city may contract with religious and fraternal organizations to designate a
reasonable portion of the cemetery in which burials may be restricted to
members of such religious and fraternal organizations and their families. (1991
Code § 12.20.110, as amended)
7-3-9: SALES SUBJECT TO RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Every lot or single grave sold is subject to rules and regulations that have
been or may be adopted. The rules and regulations shall be subject to such
changes as are found necessary for the protection of lot owners, the remains of
the dead and the preservation of the cemetery. (1991 Code § 12.20.120, as
amended)
7-3-10: FEES FOR SERVICES:
   A.   Purchase Price And Fees: The governing body shall, from time to time,
by resolution or ordinance, fix the size of lots, the price at which burial
rights shall be sold and the fees which shall be charged for the various
cemetery services to be provided. (1991 Code § 12.20.250, as amended)
   B.   Collection Of Fees: The city recorder, and such other persons as the
governing body may designate, are authorized and required to collect in advance
prices and fees for the opening and closing of graves or other services, which
shall include, but not be limited to, properly disinterring bodies and properly
restoring the earth and grounds, recording each burial, disinterment or
removal, and raised monument privileges. The fees shall be such amounts as are
determined by the governing body from time to time by resolution or ordinance.
(1991 Code § 12.20.230, as amended)
   C.   Fee For Opening Grave:
      1.   No grave shall be opened in the city cemetery until payment of a fee
for the labor and expense in so opening the grave shall be paid.
      2.   The presentation of a receipt from the city recorder, or person
designated by the governing body when presented to the cemetery superintendent,
shall be authority to open a grave for the burial of a deceased person.
However, upon a contract being entered into between any mortician and the city
wherein the mortician agrees to be responsible and liable for fees for the
opening of a grave, and wherein that mortician will be personally liable for
such fees and for perpetual care payments, the city recorder, or authorized
person, may give the cemetery superintendent authority to open graves without
the presentation of a receipt from the city recorder, or authorized person.
(1991 Code § 12.20.240, as amended)
7-3-11: SALE OF LOTS:
   A.   Authorized; Records: The city recorder, and such other person as the
governing body may designate, is authorized to sell the use of lots in the city
cemetery for burial purposes only and to collect all sums arising from the
sale. The city recorder shall keep a complete record of all sales, which record
shall describe the location of the lot purchased and the price paid therefor.
The city recorder, or designated person, shall deliver to each purchaser a
certificate of burial rights for each lot purchased, which certificate shall,
among other things, describe the location of the lot, the purchase price, and
the type of maintenance services which are to be provided, e.g., perpetual
care, prepaid continued maintenance or currently paid services.
   B.   Payment For Care And Maintenance: A certificate and right to burial
shall be exempt from execution, taxation or assessment for care and maintenance
from and after full payment of the purchase price, except as may be provided by
the city council after April 1, 1992. Payments made pursuant to this section
shall not be construed to be payment for cemetery services other than perpetual
care or prepaid maintenance.
   C.   Included Care And Maintenance: Perpetual care or prepaid continued
maintenance shall be deemed to include the filling of the grave, the placing of
topsoil upon the grave, seeding the grave with grass, and watering and cutting
the grass. No other services are included.
   D.   Approval Required For Improvements: No other improvements, changes or
service, except perpetual care or prepaid continued maintenance, shall be made
on any lot without the certificate holder or his heirs first submitting to and
receiving from the cemetery superintendent, written approval for such
improvements, changes or services, which improvements, changes or services
shall be subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the governing
body. (1991 Code § 12.20.260, as amended)
7-3-12: RESTRICTIONS OF RESALE:
   A.   Sales To City: From and after August 1, 1979, the lots sold by the city
shall not be further sold, transferred, conveyed or assigned to any person
except the city. The city agrees to buy back any city cemetery grave lot which
it may hereafter sell. The repurchase of such lots shall be for the original
price paid by the purchaser, or the current selling price of the lot, whichever
is less.
   B.   Certificate Canceled: Whenever a certificate to burial rights or lots
reverts to the city as provided for in this section, or become vested in the
city for any reason, before new certificates are issued, the original
certificate shall be canceled or an assignment given, and the record shall be
so changed.
   C.   Issuance Of Certificates: The certificates shall be issued and signed
by the mayor and shall be attested by the city recorder. All lots or parts of
lots, as provided in this section, together with all improvements, shall be
exempt from execution and from taxation and assessment for care and maintenance
charges from and after said payment. (1991 Code § 12.20.270, as amended)
7-3-13: CARE RESERVED BY CITY:
The city reserves the right to enter upon any grave and to perform all work
necessary for the care and upkeep of all lots and graves in the cemetery. (1991
Code § 12.20.130, as amended)
7-3-14: PERPETUAL CARE:
   A.   Perpetual Care Fund Terminated: The municipal cemetery perpetual care
fund is terminated, and appropriate city officials, working with the city
auditor, are directed to transfer the balance in such fund to a capital
improvements fund, to be used exclusively for cemetery purposes, such as for
expenditures for land, buildings and major improvements. (1991 Code §
12.20.300, as amended)
   B.   Contracting For Perpetual Care:
      1.   No grave shall be hereafter opened in the city cemetery until
perpetual care upon the lot where the grave is to be opened shall have been
contracted for with the city, or perpetual care thereon paid. Should it be the
desire of any person to have a grave opened and the body interred therein and
perpetual care shall not have been previously contracted for or paid in full
for the lot therein, the person may either pay the full purchase price for
perpetual care or enter into a contract wherein payment shall be agreed.
      2.   The agreement shall provide for a down payment in the amount of
twenty percent (20%) of the total purchase price of the cost of the lot, and
shall further provide for the payment of monthly installments over a period not
to exceed twenty (20) months. The monthly installments shall be in the amounts
equal to the balance of the contract divided by the number of months which the
contract is to run, plus two (2) months' extra payment to pay for the privilege
of making the payments in installments or six percent (6%) of the balance,
whichever is less.
      3.   The installment contract for perpetual care of, or purchase of a lot
with perpetual care, shall provide for collection by the city in event of a
default and such collection shall be by civil action, and the defendant therein
shall pay cost of collection, together with a reasonable attorney fee to the
city, and shall also pay interest at the rate of eight percent (8%) per annum
upon the past due installments. All installments shall immediately become due
upon the default of any of the installments; provided, however, that when
perpetual care for any lot in the city cemetery or portion thereof has not been
paid for a period of ten (10) years, then, and in such an event, the unused
portion of the lot shall thereafter escheat to the city, and the title thereof
shall revert to the city, which shall thereafter have the right, option and
privilege to sell and dispose of unused cemetery property, as is in this
chapter provided, upon condition that the city shall thereafter maintain
perpetually without cost or fee the portion of the lot occupied by a grave or
graves prior to the date when the remaining property escheated to the city.
      4.   The city shall have power to fix, by resolution or ordinance, a fee,
in addition to the purchase price charged and paid at the time of purchase, for
the annual maintenance and care of a cemetery lot or portion thereof from any
person purchasing a cemetery lot or portion thereof after April 1, 1992. The
imposition of such a fee shall be by specific action of the city council, as it
is the intention of the city council, at the time these amendments are adopted,
in March 1992, that the fees paid at the time of purchase shall be all that is
charged a purchaser for the maintenance and upkeep of the lot or portion
thereof purchased. The city will provide the care referred to in subsection C
of this section without further charge, until further action by the city
council as provided in this subsection. (1991 Code § 12.20.280, as amended)
   C.   Care Included: The essential perpetual care that the city agrees to
give shall consist of care of the cemetery generally, and shall include, but is
not limited to, mowing of all lots and graves at reasonable intervals,
resodding, seeding and filling in sunken graves, sodding the surface of the
graves to lot level, removing dead flowers and trimming trees and shrubbery
when necessary, raking and cleaning the lots and straightening of tilting
stones or markers, but shall not include repairing or replacing markers or
memorial structures of any nature, except when the need for repair or
replacement is directly caused by the city. (1991 Code § 12.20.290, as amended)
   D.   Maintenance Charges On Lots Without Perpetual Care:
      1.   Every lot for which perpetual care has not been purchased and with
reference to which the owner has established a right to directly provide for
maintenance and care, notwithstanding the provisions of section
7-3-9 of this chapter, shall be maintained and cared for to the extent and in
accordance with the standards established by the governing body for care and
maintenance of all lots of the cemetery.
      2.   In the event that the owner fails to provide the requisite care and
maintenance for nonperpetual care lots, the cemetery superintendent shall
furnish care and maintenance at rates established by the governing body.
      3.   All such charges shall become a personal liability of the owner of
the lots and, in addition thereto, shall constitute a lien against the lots
upon the basis of which the governing body may cause the burial rights therein
to be forfeited and said rights to revert to the city. (1991 Code § 12.20.340,
as amended)
7-3-15: CITY NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR ERRORS:
Under no circumstances will the city assume responsibility for errors in
opening graves when orders are given by telephone. (1991 Code § 12.20.140, as
amended)
7-3-16: TRAFFIC RULES:
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of the city traffic ordinances 1
relative to the operation of vehicles and conduct of pedestrians shall be in
effect in the cemetery, except as herein otherwise modified by this chapter.
   B.   Speed Limit: It is unlawful for any person to ride or drive within the
city cemetery at a speed greater than five (5) miles per hour. (1991 Code §
12.20.150, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6 of this code.
7-3-17: CHILDREN:
Children under the age of eight (8) years shall not be allowed in the cemetery
unless accompanied by their parents or other adults, except for the purposes of
attending authorized funerals or, in the company of adults, placing flowers on
the grave of a deceased relative or friend, or performing any other customary
evidence of respect in accordance with their religious principles. (1991 Code §
12.20.160, as amended)
7-3-18: ANIMALS:
No animal shall be allowed in any cemetery, except in the confines of a vehicle
and must be at all times retained within the confines of said vehicle while the
vehicle remains in the cemetery. (1991 Code § 12.20.170, as amended)
7-3-19: DECORUM:
Cemetery grounds are sacredly devoted to the interment and repose of the dead.
Strict observance of decorum due such a place shall be required of all persons.
(1991 Code § 12.20.180, as amended)
7-3-20: INJURY TO CEMETERY PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to tie or attempt to tie any horse, animal
or motor vehicle to any monument, gravestone, tablet, marker, tree, shrub,
fence or enclosure on the premises of the cemetery for the purpose of injuring,
defacing or attempting the removal of same.
   B.   It is an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to injure, deface, break, destroy or remove
any headstone, tombstone, monument, tree, shrub or any other property in the
cemetery. (1991 Code § 12.20.190, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
7-3-21: LANDSCAPING BY PRIVATE PERSONS:
Except as provided by the rules and regulations of the governing body, it is
unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any fence, corner post, coping or
boundary of any kind, to plant any vegetation upon any lot or lots, street,
alley or walk in the cemetery, or to grade the ground or land thereof. The
cemetery superintendent shall, whenever required, furnish the lines of any lots
according to official survey, shall prevent and prohibit any markings of the
same except by official landmarks, and shall prevent and prohibit any grading
thereof that might destroy or interfere with the general slope of the land.
(1991 Code § 12.20.200, as amended)
7-3-22: MARKERS AND MONUMENTS:
It is unlawful for any person to erect, place or cause to be placed any marker
or monument on any lot in the cemetery in violation of the rules and
regulations promulgated by the governing body regarding the placement,
construction and design of all such markers. (1991 Code § 12.20.210, as
amended)
7-3-23: ESTABLISHING ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   The governing body may promulgate by resolution or ordinance such
additional rules and regulations concerning the care, use, operation and
maintenance of the cemetery as it shall deem necessary.
   B.   The mayor may, from time to time as the governing body deems necessary,
direct and publish a booklet of rules and regulations for the convenience of
the purchasers of lots in the city cemetery. Such rules and regulations shall
constitute a part of the terms and conditions under which owners and users may
utilize the cemetery and shall form a supplement to this chapter after they
have been adopted as official by resolution or ordinance of the governing body.
   C.   Any changes in the rules and regulations shall be adopted by the
governing body before such changes shall be official. (1991 Code § 12.20.220,
as amended)
7-3-24: REVERSION OF LOTS FOR NONPAYMENT:
   A.   Collection: When any owner of any lot or portion of a lot in the
cemetery shall have failed to pay the cost of services rendered by the city or
its employees in watering, beautifying, maintaining or caring for any lots or
portions thereof in the city cemetery for which perpetual care has not been
purchased in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and such failure
to pay has continued for a period of six (6) months, the city may pursue
collection of such costs in a court of law. A court action may be pursued for
the purpose of seeking judgment against the owner and thereafter attaching any
of the assets of the owner, including an attachment of the lots or portions of
lots upon which the owner has failed to make payment for maintenance service.
   B.   Cancellation Of Certificate Or Deed: As an additional remedy, or in
lieu of seeking collection in a court of law, the city may cancel the owner's
certificate or deed representing rights to burial on the unoccupied lots or
portions of lots and causing ownership of lots or portions thereof to revert
back to the city by following the procedure set forth in this chapter. (1991
Code § 12.20.350, as amended)
   C.   Procedure For Reversion Of Lot To City:
      1.   The city may terminate the owner's right to use of unoccupied lot or
lots in the city cemetery when there has been a six (6) month failure to pay
the costs of maintenance provided by the city in the following manner:
         a.   The governing body shall fix a time and place of hearing before
the governing body, at which the owner shall be given the opportunity to
present good cause as to why his right to future use of the lot or lots
involved shall not be terminated and as to why the ownership of the lot or
portions of lot shall not revert back to the city for resale by it.
         b.   A notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing to forfeit
the owner's interest in the lot or parts of the lot shall be given by personal
delivery of a written notice of the time, place and purpose of the meeting of
the governing body or by mailing a copy of the notice to the last known address
of the owner or owners.
         c.   In the absence of an ability to make personal delivery of the
written notice to the owner or owners, a notice of the hearing to forfeit
rights to said lot or portions of lot shall be published at least once in a
newspaper having general circulation in the county. The publication shall be
made at least three (3) weeks prior to the date of the hearing.
         d.   If the owner is known to be deceased, then mailing of notice or
delivery of notice shall be made to the last known addresses of any known
heirs.
         e.   Copies of the notice shall also be posted in a conspicuous place
in the offices of the city.
         f.   At the time and place set for the hearing before the governing
body, the governing body shall give the owner or owners an opportunity to be
heard, a right to present witnesses, and to submit evidence showing cause why
the lot or portions, of the lot shall not be forfeited to the city.
      2.   After due consideration of all the facts presented at such hearing,
the governing body may order, if it finds that there has been a failure to make
payment of such costs or if no satisfactory arrangement has been proffered for
making the immediate payment of such costs, that the lot or portions of lot
shall revert to the city for resale and that all of the rights and privileges
of the owner in the lot or lots are terminated.
      3.   Thereafter, the city may make sale of the lots in the same manner as
it makes sales of all other lots within the cemetery. (1991 Code § 12.20.360,
as amended)
7-3-25: BURIAL OF INDIGENTS:
   A.   Space Designated: The governing body may by resolution or ordinance
designate a portion of the city cemetery to the burial of indigents. Whenever
it is made to appear to the mayor by proof submitted to him by the city
recorder that any person who has died does not have an estate sufficient to pay
the purchase price of a lot in the cemetery, and that the nearest relative or
representative of such deceased person desires to have the body of such
deceased interred in the cemetery, the mayor may grant burial space for such
deceased person at the request made to him by the city recorder.
   B.   Decision Of Mayor: The mayor shall communicate his decision to both the
city recorder and the cemetery superintendent. The mayor shall give report of
his decision, whether affirmative or negative, to the governing body at its
next regular meeting. All strangers without funds or other persons who may die
in the city may be granted the privilege granted herein. (1991 Code §
12.20.370, as amended)
CHAPTER 4
CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Conformance To Specifications Required
7-4-2: Permit Required; Supervision
7-4-3: Construction Of Driveways Or Changes Of Construction
7-4-4: Building Materials In Street; Permit Required
7-4-5: Dumping Or Wasting On City Streets Prohibited
7-4-6: Placing Or Mixing Sand Or Gravel On Paved Street Or Sidewalk; Permit
Required
7-4-7: Irresponsible Burning On Streets Prohibited
7-4-8: Overflowing Of Water On Public Property
7-4-9: Irrigation Ditches Across Sidewalks
7-4-10: Piping Of Ditches And Drainages Within Street Rights Of Way
7-4-11: Removal Of Sod And Earth
7-4-12: Utility Service Lines Under Paved City Streets
7-4-1: CONFORMANCE TO SPECIFICATIONS REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, either as owner, agent, servant, contractor or
employee, to construct a street or sidewalk which does not conform to
specifications established by the city engineer or other authorized
representative of the city, unless special permission to deviate from such
specification is first obtained from the governing body. (1991 Code §
12.04.010, as amended)
7-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; SUPERVISION:
   A.   No person, either as owner, agent, servant, contractor or employee,
shall construct any permanent sidewalk without first obtaining from the city
manager a permit so to do. The permit shall specify that the sidewalk be
constructed of cement, the character and quality of the cement, the consistent
parts of the mixture, and the thickness of the walk. (1991 Code § 12.04.020, as
amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   It is unlawful to construct a sidewalk in violation of the
specifications given by a proper city official.
   C.   All sidewalks shall be constructed under the inspection of the
superintendent of streets or his duly authorized representative. (1991 Code §
12.04.020, as amended)
7-4-3: CONSTRUCTION OF DRIVEWAYS OR CHANGES OF CONSTRUCTION:
It is unlawful for any person to construct a driveway across a sidewalk, or cut
or change the construction of sidewalk, curb or gutter, without first making
written application and obtaining from the city manager a permit to do so. The
acceptance of such permit shall be deemed an agreement on the part of such
person to construct said driveway in accordance with specifications furnished
by the city. (1991 Code § 12.04.030, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
7-4-4: BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET; PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to occupy or use any portion of the public
streets when erecting or repairing any building upon land abutting thereon,
without first making application to and receiving from the city manager a
permit for the occupation or use of such portions of streets for such periods
of time and under such limitations and restrictions as may be required by the
governing body. Any such permit may be revoked by the governing body at any
time when the holder thereof fails to comply with any rule or regulation under
which it is granted, or when, in the opinion of the governing body, the public
interest requires such revocation. (1991 Code § 12.04.040, as amended; amd.
2009 Code)
7-4-5: DUMPING OR WASTING ON CITY STREETS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for anyone to cause or be associated with causing the dumping,
wasting or discarding any wasted, unused or unusable material, including the
washing or cleaning of cement delivery trucks, on any city street or city
street right of way. Violation of this section will result in a five hundred
dollar ($500.00) fine. (1991 Code § 12.04.045, as amended)
7-4-6: PLACING OR MIXING SAND OR GRAVEL ON PAVED STREET OR SIDEWALK; PERMIT
REQUIRED:
Unless a permit from the city manager has been obtained, it is unlawful to:
   A.   Place or pile, or permit to be placed or piled, any sand, gravel, lime,
cement, mortar, plaster, concrete, or any like substance or mixture, or allow
the same to remain on any portion of any paved street or sidewalk;
   B.   Make or mix or permit to be made or mixed any mortar, plaster, concrete
or any like substance or mixture on any portion of any paved street or
sidewalk. (1991 Code § 12.04.050, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
7-4-7: IRRESPONSIBLE BURNING ON STREETS PROHIBITED 1 :
It is unlawful for anyone to cause or be associated with the causing of
mischievously or irresponsibly burning of any materials on city streets or city
street rights of way. Violation of this section will result in a five hundred
dollar ($500.00) fine. (1991 Code § 12.04.055, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. See also sections
  4-2-10 and 4-5-2 of this code for burning regulations.
7-4-8: OVERFLOWING OF WATER ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to allow water to overflow from any ditch, canal,
well or irrigation stream onto the streets, sidewalks or property of the city.
(1991 Code § 12.04.060, as amended)
7-4-9: IRRIGATION DITCHES ACROSS SIDEWALKS:
All owners or occupants of lots in the city who require water from a main ditch
for irrigation or other purposes shall dig ditches, erect flumes, lay pipes and
install culverts, as needed, and maintain the same to convey water under
sidewalks to or from their respective lots. All culverts, ditches, pipes and
flumes conveying water under sidewalks shall meet such reasonable standards and
specifications as may be established by the superintendent of streets. (1991
Code § 12.04.070, as amended)
7-4-10: PIPING OF DITCHES AND DRAINAGES WITHIN STREET RIGHTS OF WAY:
All ditches and natural drainages within the city street rights of way that
parallel the frontage of a property owner lot must be piped with a minimum
twelve inch (12") culvert, or the city engineer's recommendation, before a
structure is allowed to be built on the lot. The exact distance which must be
piped will be determined at the time the subdivision is approved or at the time
the building permit clearance is approved by the planning commission. (1991
Code § 12.04.075, as amended)
7-4-11: REMOVAL OF SOD AND EARTH:
No person shall dig, cut or remove any sod or earth from any street or other
public place without a permit from the city manager. (1991 Code § 12.04.080, as
amended; amd. 2009 Code)
7-4-12: UTILITY SERVICE LINES UNDER PAVED CITY STREETS 1 :
On any paved city street, it shall be required to bore under the road for all
utility service lines, which include, but are not limited to, culinary water,
sewer, telephone, natural gas, electrical power and cable television. The city
does not allow the pavement to be cut, then compacted and resurfaced for
utility service lines. (1991 Code § 12.04.090, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-1E-14 and subsection
  8-3-8C1 of this code.
CHAPTER 5
STREET TREES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Shade Tree And Beautification Commission
7-5-3: Tree Planting
7-5-4: Spacing
7-5-5: Distance From Street Corners And Fire Hydrants
7-5-6: Public Tree Care
7-5-7: Pruning And Corner Clearance
7-5-8: Dead Or Diseased Tree Removal From Private Property
7-5-9: Tree Removal From Public Property; Permit Required
7-5-10: Interference Unlawful
7-5-11: Arborist's License And Bond
7-5-12: Penalty
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter:
PARK TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and all areas owned by the city, or to which the public has free access
as a park.
STREET TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on public
lands lying within the rights of way of all streets, avenues or ways within the
city. (1991 Code § 12.16.010, as amended)
7-5-2: SHADE TREE AND BEAUTIFICATION COMMISSION 1 :
   A.   Established; Compensation: There is created and established a shade
tree and beautification commission for the city, which shall consist of eleven
(11) members, citizens and residents of the city. Ten (10) of said members
shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the city council. The
eleventh member shall be the city council member responsible for activities of
the shade tree and beautification commission (commission) and shall be an ex
officio member. All members of the commission shall serve without pay. (1991
Code § 12.16.020, as amended)
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of the ten (10) members to be appointed by the
mayor shall be three (3) years, except that the term of two (2) members
appointed to the first commission shall be for only one year and the term of
two (2) members appointed to the first commission shall be for two (2) years.
The term of the council member shall run with the term of the council member's
office. Appointments to office will be made on or before the first Monday in
February of each year. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term
of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired
portion of that term. (1991 Code § 12.16.030, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities: The duties and responsibilities of the
commission are as follows:
      1.   To study the problems and determine the needs of the city, in
connection with its community forest;
      2.   To adopt and then periodically review and update a city community
forest plan, which designates the type and kind of trees to be planted upon
city streets and in parks;
      3.   To collect and allocate funds from public and private sources for
the planning and management of the community forest and the beautification of
the city;
      4.   To assist in the dissemination of news and information regarding the
selection, planting and maintenance of trees within the corporate limits,
whether they be on public or private property, and to make such recommendations
from time to time to the city council as to desirable legislation concerning
the community forest program and activities for the city; and
      5.   To consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon
any special matter or question within the scope of its work when requested by
the city council. (1991 Code § 12.16.040, as amended)
   D.   Operation: The commission shall choose its own officers, make its own
rules and regulations, subject to approval of the city council, and keep a
journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the
transaction of business. (1991 Code § 12.16.050, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   E.   Review; Appeal: The city council shall have the right to review the
conduct, acts and decisions of the shade tree and beautification commission.
Any person may appeal any ruling or order of the commission to the city
council, who may hear the matter and make a final decision. (1991 Code §
12.16.150, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  11-5-11B of this code.
7-5-3: TREE PLANTING:
   A.   Forest Plan: Street tree plantings must conform in species and location
with the city community forest plan. No species other than those included in
the forest plan may be planted as street trees or park trees without written
permission of the commission, and trees may only be selected from the tree list
that corresponds to the specific proposed tree location as designated in the
forest plan.
   B.   New Developments: In the case of new residential, industrial or
commercial development (of any size or type), the developer shall be
responsible for new street tree planting. The developer shall be responsible
for the purchase and planting of trees in the public right of way no smaller
than one and one-half inch (11/2") caliper, which conform in species and
spacing to the forest plan as provided in subsection A of this section, and
sections
7-5-4 and
7-5-5 of this chapter. Persons planting trees shall abide by the arboricultural
specifications adopted by the commission. (1991 Code § 12.16.060, as amended)
7-5-4: SPACING:
The spacing of street trees shall be in accordance with the spacing ranges
designated in the forest plan. Exceptions must be approved by the commission.
(1991 Code § 12.16.070, as amended)
7-5-5: DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE HYDRANTS 1 :
No street tree shall be planted closer than forty feet (40') from any street
corner, measured from the point of intersection of the street lines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than ten feet (10') to any fire hydrant. (1991
Code § 12.16.080, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-11-11 of this code.
7-5-6: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The
commission may remove, or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part
thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of nature is
injurious to sewers, sidewalks, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or
other public improvements, or is affected by any injurious insect, pest or
disease. This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners; provided, that the selection and location of said
trees is in accordance with sections
7-5-3 through
7-5-5 of this chapter. (1991 Code § 12.16.090, as amended)
7-5-7: PRUNING AND CORNER CLEARANCE 1 :
Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right of way within the city
shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not severely obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet (8') above the surface of
the street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased, dangerous,
broken or decayed limbs that constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
The city shall have the right to enter upon private property to prune any tree
or shrub on said private property when it interferes with the proper spread of
light along the street from a streetlight, or interferes with the visibility of
any traffic control device or sign. (1991 Code § 12.16.100, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-11-11 of this code.
7-5-8: DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY:
The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the city, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease that constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the city. The commission will notify in writing
the owner of such trees. Removal shall be done by the owner at his own expense
within sixty (60) days after the date of service of notice. In the event of
failure of the owner to comply with such provisions, the city shall have the
authority to enter upon said private property to remove such trees and charge
the cost of removal on the owner's property tax notice. (1991 Code § 12.16.110,
as amended)
7-5-9: TREE REMOVAL FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY; PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall remove or otherwise seriously disturb
any tree on any city owned property without first filing an application and
procuring a permit from the commission. The person receiving the permit shall
abide by the arboricultural specifications adopted by the commission.
   B.   Application: Application for permits must be made with the commission
not less than forty eight (48) hours in advance of the time work is to be done.
   C.   Standards Of Issuance: The commission shall issue the permit provided
for herein if, in its judgment, the proposed work is desirable and the proposed
method and workmanship thereof are of a satisfactory nature. Any permit granted
shall contain a definite date of expiration and the work shall be completed in
the time allowed in the permit and in the manner as therein described. Any
permit shall be void if its terms are violated.
   D.   Notice Of Completion: Notice of completion shall be given within five
(5) days to the commission for its inspection. (1991 Code § 12.16.120, as
amended)
7-5-10: INTERFERENCE UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with city
personnel, the commission or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street
trees, park trees, or trees on private grounds as authorized in this chapter.
(1991 Code § 12.16.130, as amended)
7-5-11: ARBORIST'S LICENSE AND BOND:
It is unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or occupation
of pruning, treating or removing street or park trees within the city without
first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall be fifteen
dollars ($15.00) annually, paid in advance; provided, however, that no license
shall be required of any public service company or city employee doing such
work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors. Before any license is
issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability
insurance in the minimum amounts of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00)
for bodily injury and two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) property
damage, indemnifying the city or any person injured or damaged resulting from
the pursuit of such endeavors as herein described. (1991 Code § 12.16.140, as
amended)
7-5-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor and, upon conviction or a plea of guilty, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 12.16.160, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 6
TELECOMMUNICATIONS USE OF RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
7-6-1: Declaration Of Findings And Intent; Scope
7-6-2: Definitions
7-6-3: Franchise Required
7-6-4: Compensation And Other Payments
7-6-5: Franchise Applications
7-6-6: Construction And Technical Requirements
7-6-7: Transfer Or Sale
7-6-8: Oversight And Regulation
7-6-9: Rights Of City
7-6-10: Obligation To Notify Property Owner
7-6-11: General Administrative Provisions
7-6-12: Federal, State And City Jurisdiction
7-6-1: DECLARATION OF FINDINGS AND INTENT; SCOPE:
   A.   Declaration Of Findings And Intent:
      1.   Findings Regarding Rights Of Way: The city finds that the rights of
way within the city:
         a.   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property
in the business and social life of the city;
         b.   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
         c.   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and
other public service entities delivering utility and public services rendered
for profit, to the enhancement of the health, welfare and general economic well
being of the city and its citizens; and
         d.   Are a unique and physically limited resource requiring proper
management to maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the
taxpayers of the foregoing uses and to minimize the inconvenience to and
negative effects upon the public from such facilities' construction, placement,
relocation and maintenance in the rights of way.
      2.   Findings Regarding Compensation: The city finds that the city should
receive fair and reasonable compensation for use of the rights of way.
      3.   Findings Regarding Local Concern: The city finds that while
telecommunications systems are in part an extension of interstate commerce,
their operations also involve rights of way, municipal franchising, and vital
business and community service, which are of local concern.
      4.   Findings Regarding Promotion Of Telecommunications Services: The
city finds that it is in the best interests of its taxpayers and citizens to
promote the rapid development of telecommunications services, on a
nondiscriminatory basis, responsive to community and public interest, and to
assure availability for municipal, educational and community services.
      5.   Findings Regarding Franchise Standards: The city finds that it is in
the interests of the public to franchise and to establish standards for
franchising providers in a manner that:
         a.   Fairly and reasonably compensates the city on a competitively
neutral and nondiscriminatory basis as provided in this chapter;
         b.   Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions under
which providers may use the rights of way to serve the public;
         c.   Fully protects the public interests and the city from any harm
that may flow from such commercial use of rights of way;
         d.   Protects the police powers and rights of way management authority
of the city, in a manner consistent with federal and state law;
         e.   Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and
use of the city infrastructure;
         f.   Protects the public investment in improvements in the rights of
way; and
         g.   Ensures that no barriers to entry of telecommunications providers
are created and that such franchising is accomplished in a manner that does not
prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting telecommunication services, within
the meaning of the telecommunications act of 1996 (act) (P.L. no. 104-104).
      6.   Power To Manage Rights Of Way: The city adopts this chapter pursuant
to its power to manage the rights of way, pursuant to common law, the Utah
constitution and statutory authority, and receive fair and reasonable
compensation for the use of rights of way by providers as expressly set forth
by section 253 of the act.
   B.   Scope: This chapter shall provide the basic local scheme for providers
of telecommunications services and systems that require the use of the rights
of way, including providers of both the system and service, those providers of
the system only, and those providers who do not build the system but who only
provide services. This chapter shall apply to all future providers and to all
providers in the city prior to the effective date hereof, whether operating
with or without a franchise as set forth in subsection
7-6-12B of this chapter.
   C.   Excluded Activity:
      1.   Cable TV: This chapter shall not apply to cable television operators
otherwise regulated by ordinance 80-2 and resolution 94-12 (the cable
television ordinance).
      2.   Wireless Services: This chapter shall not apply to personal wireless
service facilities.
      3.   Provisions Applicable To Excluded Providers: Providers excused by
other law that prohibits the city from requiring a franchise shall not be
required to obtain a franchise, but all of the requirements imposed by this
chapter through the exercise of the city police power and not preempted by
other law shall be applicable. (1991 Code § 12.28.010, as amended)
7-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, words in the plural number include the singular. The words
"shall" and "will" are mandatory, and "may" is permissive. Words not defined
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
APPLICATION: The process by which a provider submits a request and indicates a
desire to be granted a franchise to utilize the rights of way of all, or a
part, of the city. An application includes all written documentation, verbal
statements and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by a provider
to the city concerning: the construction of a telecommunications system over,
under, on or through the rights of way; the telecommunications services
proposed to be provided in the city by a provider; and any other matter
pertaining to a proposed system or service.
CITY: Wellsville City, Utah.
COMPLETION DATE: The date that a provider begins providing services to
customers in the city.
CONSTRUCTION COSTS: All costs of constructing a system, including make ready
costs, other than engineering fees, attorney or accountant fees, or other
consulting fees.
CONTROL OR CONTROLLING INTEREST: Actual working control in whatever manner
exercised, including, without limitation, working control through ownership,
management, debt instruments or negative control, as the case may be, of the
system or of a provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of control
or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership, directly
or indirectly, by any person, or group of persons acting in concert, of more
than twenty five percent (25%) of any provider (which person or group of
persons is hereinafter referred to as "controlling person"). "Control or
controlling interest", as used in this chapter, may be held simultaneously by
more than one person or group of persons.
FCC: The federal communications commission, or any successor thereto.
FRANCHISE: The rights and obligation extended by the city to a provider to own,
lease, construct, maintain, use or operate a system in the rights of way within
the boundaries of the city. Any such authorization, in whatever form granted,
shall not mean or include: a) any other permit or authorization required for
the privilege of transacting and carrying on a business within the city
required by the ordinances and laws of the city; b) any other permit, agreement
or authorization required in connection with operations on rights of way or
public property, including, without limitation, permits and agreements for
placing devices on or in poles, conduits or other structures, whether owned by
the city or a private entity, or for excavating or performing other work in or
along the rights of way.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A contract entered into in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter between the city and a franchisee that sets forth, subject to
this chapter, the terms and conditions under which a franchise will be
exercised.
GROSS REVENUE: Includes all revenues of a provider that may be included as
gross revenue within the meaning of Utah Code Annotated title 11, chapter 26,
as amended.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the rights of way.
OPEN VIDEO SERVICE: Any video programming services provided to any person
through the use of rights of way, by a provider that is certified by the FCC to
operate an open video system pursuant to section 651 et seq., of the
telecommunications act (to be codified at 47 USC title VI, part V), regardless
of the system used.
OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM: The system of cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides,
optic fiber, microwave, laser beams, and any associated converters, equipment
or facilities designed and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving,
amplifying or distributing open video services to or from subscribers or
locations within the city.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system and
directly or through one or more persons owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
ORDINANCE OR TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORDINANCE: The telecommunications ordinance
codified in this chapter concerning the granting of franchises in and by the
city for the construction, ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a
telecommunications system.
PSC: The public service commission, or any successor thereto.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint stock
company, trust, or any other legal entity, but not the city.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES FACILITIES: Has the same meaning as provided in
section 704 of the act (47 USC 332(c)(7)(c)), which includes what is commonly
known as cellular and PSC services that do not install any system or portion of
a system in the rights of way.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller or system lessee.
RESELLER: Any person that provides local exchange service over a system for
which a separate charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the
underlying system used for the transmission.
RIGHTS OF WAY: The surface of and the space above and below any public street,
sidewalk, alley, or other public way of any type whatsoever, now or hereafter
existing as such within the city.
SIGNAL: Any transmission or reception of electronic, electrical, light or laser
or radio frequency energy or optical information in either analog or digital
format.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Any person that leases a system or a specific portion of a
system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: The transmission, between or among points specified by the
user, of information of the user's choosing (e.g., data, video and voice),
without change in the form or content of the information sent and received.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE OR SERVICES: Any telecommunications services
provided by a provider within the city that the provider is authorized to
provide under federal, state and local law, and any equipment and/or facilities
required for and integrated with the services provided within the city, except
that these terms do not include "cable service", as defined in the cable
communications policy act of 1984, as amended by the cable television consumer
protection and competition act of 1992 (47 USC section 521 et seq.), and the
telecommunications act of 1996.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles, antennas,
transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and
appurtenances owned, leased or used by a provider, located in the rights of way
and utilized in the provision of services, including fully digital or analog,
voice, data and video imaging and other enhanced telecommunications services.
"Telecommunications system" or "systems" also includes an open video system.
WIRE: Fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable, or other
transmission medium that may be used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.
(1991 Code § 12.28.020, as amended)
7-6-3: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
   A.   Nonexclusive Franchise: The city is empowered and authorized to issue
nonexclusive franchises governing the installation, construction and
maintenance of systems in the city rights of way, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The franchise is granted through a franchise
agreement entered into between the city and provider.
   B.   Every Provider Must Obtain: Except to the extent preempted by federal
or state law, as ultimately interpreted by a court of competent jurisdiction,
including any appeals, every provider must obtain a franchise prior to
constructing a telecommunications system or providing telecommunications
services using the rights of way, and every provider must obtain a franchise
before constructing an open video system or providing open video services via
an open video system. Any open video system or service shall be subject to the
customer service and consumer protection provisions applicable to the cable TV
companies to the extent the city is not preempted or permitted as ultimately
interpreted by a court of competent jurisdiction, including any appeals. The
fact that particular telecommunications systems may be used for multiple
purposes does not obviate the need to obtain a franchise for other purposes. By
way of illustration and not limitation, a cable operator of a cable system must
obtain a cable franchise, and, should it intend to provide telecommunications
services over the same system, must also obtain a telecommunications franchise.
   C.   Nature Of Grant: A franchise shall not convey title, equitable or
legal, in the rights of way. A franchise is only the right to occupy rights of
way on a nonexclusive basis for the limited purposes and for the limited period
stated in the franchise. The right may not be subdivided, assigned or
subleased. A franchise does not excuse a provider from obtaining appropriate
access or pole attachment agreements before colocating its system on the
property of others, including the city's property. This section shall not be
construed to prohibit a provider from leasing conduit to another provider, so
long as the lessee has obtained a franchise.
   D.   Current Providers: Except to the extent exempted by federal or state
law, any provider acting without a franchise on the effective date hereof shall
request issuance of a franchise from the city within ninety (90) days of the
effective date hereof. If such request is made, the provider may continue
providing service during the course of negotiations. If a timely request is not
made, or if negotiations cease and a franchise is not granted, the provider
shall comply with the provisions of subsection
7-6-9D of this chapter.
   E.   Nature Of Franchise: The franchise granted by the city under the
provisions of this chapter shall be a nonexclusive franchise, providing the
right and consent to install, repair, maintain, remove and replace its system
on, over and under the rights of way in order to provide services.
   F.   Regulatory Approval Needed: Before offering or providing any services
pursuant to the franchise, a provider shall obtain any and all regulatory
approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses for the offering or provision of
such services from the appropriate federal, state and local authorities, if
required, and shall submit to the city upon the written request of the city
evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses.
   G.   Term: No franchise issued pursuant to this chapter shall have a term of
less than five (5) years or greater than fifteen (15) years. Each franchise
shall be granted in a nondiscriminatory manner. (1991 Code § 12.28.030, as
amended)
7-6-4: COMPENSATION AND OTHER PAYMENTS:
   A.   Compensation: As fair and reasonable compensation for any franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter, a provider shall have the following
obligations:
      1.   Application Fee: In order to offset the cost to the city to review
an application for a franchise and in addition to all other fees, permits or
charges, a provider shall pay to the city, at the time of application, five
hundred dollars ($500.00) as a nonrefundable application fee.
      2.   Franchise Fees: The franchise fee, if any, shall be set forth in the
franchise agreement. The obligation to pay a franchise fee shall commence on
the completion date. The franchise fee is offset by any business license fee or
business license tax enacted by the city.
      3.   Excavation Permits: The provider shall also pay fees required for an
excavation permit as provided in section
7-2-5 of this title.
   B.   Timing: Unless otherwise agreed to in the franchise agreement, all
franchise fees shall be paid on a monthly basis within forty five (45) days of
the close of each calendar month.
   C.   Fee Statement And Certification: Unless a franchise agreement provides
otherwise, each fee payment shall be accompanied by a statement showing the
manner in which the fee was calculated and shall be certified as to its
accuracy.
   D.   Future Costs: A provider shall pay to the city or to third parties, at
the direction of the city, an amount equal to the reasonable costs and
reasonable expenses that the city incurs for the services of third parties
(including, but not limited to, attorneys and other consultants) in connection
with any renewal or provider initiated renegotiation, or amendment of this
chapter or a franchise; provided, however, that the parties shall agree upon a
reasonable financial cap at the outset of negotiations. In the event the
parties are unable to agree, either party may submit the issue to binding
arbitration in accordance with the rules and procedures of the American
Arbitration Association.
   E.   Taxes And Assessments: To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities, other than the city on the use of the city
property as a result of a provider's use or occupation of the rights of way,
the provider shall be responsible for payment of its pro rata share of such
taxes, payable annually unless otherwise required by the taxing authority. Such
payments shall be in addition to any other fees payable pursuant to this
chapter.
   F.   Interest On Late Payments: In the event that any payment is not
actually received by the city on or before the applicable date fixed in the
franchise, interest thereon shall accrue from such date until received at the
rate charged for delinquent state taxes.
   G.   No Accord And Satisfaction: No acceptance by the city of any fee shall
be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount,
nor shall such acceptance of such fee payment be construed as a release of any
claim the city may have for additional sums payable.
   H.   Not In Lieu Of Other Taxes Or Fees: The fee payment is not a payment in
lieu of any tax, fee or other assessment except as specifically provided in
this chapter, or as required by applicable law. By way of example, and not
limitation, excavation permit fees and fees to obtain space on the city owned
poles are not waived and remain applicable.
   I.   Continuing Obligation And Holdover: In the event a provider continues
to operate all or any part of the system after the term of the franchise, such
operator shall continue to comply with all applicable provisions of this
chapter and the franchise, including, without limitation, all compensation and
other payment provisions throughout the period of such continued operation;
provided, that any such continued operation shall in no way be construed as a
renewal or other extension of the franchise, nor as a limitation on the
remedies, if any, available to the city as a result of such continued operation
after the term, including, but not limited to, damages and restitution.
   J.   Costs Of Publication: A provider shall assume any publication costs
associated with its franchise that may be required by law. (1991 Code §
12.28.040, as amended)
7-6-5: FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Franchise Application: To obtain a franchise to construct, own,
maintain or provide services through any system within the city, to obtain a
renewal of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, or to obtain the city
approval of a transfer of a franchise, as provided in subsection
7-6-7A2 of this chapter, granted pursuant to this chapter, an application must
be filed with city on the form attached to ordinance 98-08, which is
incorporated by reference. The application form may be changed by the mayor or
city manager so long as such changes request information that is consistent
with this chapter. Such application form, as amended, is incorporated by
reference.
   B.   Application Criteria: In making a determination as to an application
filed pursuant to this chapter, the city may, but shall not be limited to,
request the following from the provider:
      1.   A copy of the order from the PSC granting a certificate of
convenience and necessity;
      2.   Certification of the provider's financial ability to compensate the
city for provider's intrusion, maintenance and use of the rights of way during
the franchise term proposed by the provider;
      3.   Provider's agreement to comply with the requirements of section
7-6-6 of this chapter.
   C.   Franchise Determination: The city, in its discretion, shall determine
the award of any franchise on the basis of these and other considerations
relevant to the use of the rights of way, without competitive bidding. (1991
Code § 12.28.050, as amended)
7-6-6: CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Requirement: No provider shall receive a franchise unless it
agrees to comply with each of the terms set forth in this section governing
construction and technical requirements for its system, in addition to any
other reasonable requirements or procedures specified by the city or the
franchise, including requirements regarding locating and sharing in the cost of
locating portions of the system with other systems or with city utilities. A
provider shall obtain an excavation permit, pursuant to the excavation
ordinance, before commencing any work in the rights of way.
   B.   Quality: All work involved in the construction, maintenance, repair,
upgrade and removal of the system shall be performed in a safe, thorough and
reliable manner using materials of good and durable quality. If, at any time,
it is determined by the FCC or any other agency granted authority by federal
law or the FCC to make such determination, that any part of the system,
including, without limitation, any means used to distribute signals over or
within the system, is harmful to the public health, safety or welfare, or
quality of service or reliability, then a provider shall, at its own cost and
expense, promptly correct all such conditions.
   C.   Licenses And Permits: A provider shall have the sole responsibility for
diligently obtaining, at its own cost and expense, all permits, licenses or
other forms of approval or authorization necessary to construct, maintain,
upgrade or repair the system, including, but not limited to, any necessary
approvals from persons and/or the city to use private property, easements,
poles and conduits. A provider shall obtain any required permit, license,
approval or authorization, including, but not limited to, excavation permits,
pole attachment agreements, etc., prior to the commencement of the activity for
which the permit, license, approval or authorization is required.
   D.   Relocation Of System:
      1.   New Grades Or Lines: If the grades or lines of any rights of way are
changed at any time in a manner affecting the system, then a provider shall
comply with the requirements of the excavation ordinance.
      2.   City Authority To Move System In Case Of An Emergency: The city may,
at any time, in case of fire, disaster or other emergency, as determined by the
city in its reasonable discretion, cut or move any parts of the system and
appurtenances on, over or under the rights of way of the city, in which event
the city shall not be liable therefor to a provider. The city shall notify a
provider in writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon as
possible and in no case later than the next business day following any action
taken under this section. Notice shall be given as provided in subsection
7-6-11D of this chapter.
      3.   Provider Required To Temporarily Move System For Third Party: A
provider shall, upon prior reasonable written notice by the city or any person
holding a permit to move any structure, and within the time that is reasonable
under the circumstances, temporarily move any part of its system to permit the
moving of such structure. A provider may impose a reasonable charge on any
person other than the city for any such movement of its systems.
      4.   Rights Of Way Change; Obligation To Move System: When the city is
changing a rights of way and makes a written request, a provider is required to
move or remove its system from the rights of way, without cost to the city, to
the extent provided in the excavation ordinance. This obligation does not apply
to systems originally located on private property pursuant to a private
easement, which property was later incorporated into the rights of way, if that
private easement grants a superior vested right. This obligation exists whether
or not the provider has obtained an excavation permit.
   E.   Protect Structures: In connection with the construction, maintenance,
repair, upgrade or removal of the system, a provider shall, at its own cost and
expense, protect any and all existing structures belonging to the city. A
provider shall obtain the prior written consent of the city to alter any water
main, power facility, sewerage or drainage system, or any other municipal
structure on, over or under the rights of way of the city required because of
the presence of the system. Any such alteration shall be made by the city or
its designee on a reimbursable basis. A provider agrees that it shall be liable
for the costs incurred by the city to replace or repair and restore to its
prior condition in a manner as may be reasonably specified by the city, any
municipal structure or any other rights of way of the city involved in the
construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of the system that may
become disturbed or damaged as a result of any work thereon by or on behalf of
a provider pursuant to the franchise.
   F.   No Obstruction: In connection with the construction, maintenance,
upgrade, repair or removal of the system, a provider shall not unreasonably
obstruct the rights of way of fixed guideway systems, railways, passenger
travel or other traffic to, from or within the city without the prior consent
of the appropriate authorities.
   G.   Safety Precautions: A provider shall, at its own cost and expense,
undertake all necessary and appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its
work sites, including the placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences,
barricades, security personnel and suitable and sufficient lighting, and such
other requirements prescribed by OSHA and Utah OSHA. A provider shall comply
with all applicable federal, state and local requirements, including, but not
limited to, the national electrical safety code.
   H.   Repair: After written reasonable notice to the provider, unless, in the
sole determination of the city, an eminent danger exists, any rights of way
within the city which are disturbed or damaged during the construction,
maintenance or reconstruction by a provider of its system may be repaired by
the city at the provider's expense, to a condition as good as that prevailing
before such work was commenced. Upon doing so, the city shall submit to such a
provider an itemized statement of the cost for repairing and restoring the
rights of way intruded upon. The provider shall, within thirty (30) days after
receipt of the statement, pay to the city the entire amount thereof.
   I.   System Maintenance: A provider shall:
      1.   Install and maintain all parts of its system in a nondangerous
condition throughout the entire period of its franchise;
      2.   Install and maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent
engineering practices and shall conform, when applicable, with the national
electrical safety code and all applicable other federal, state and local laws
or regulations;
      3.   At all reasonable times, permit examination by any duly authorized
representative of the city of the system and its effect on the rights of way.
   J.   Trimming Of Trees: A provider shall have the authority to trim trees,
in accordance with all applicable utility restrictions, ordinance and easement
restrictions, upon and hanging over rights of way so as to prevent the branches
of such trees from coming in contact with its system. (1991 Code § 12.28.060,
as amended)
7-6-7: TRANSFER OR SALE:
   A.   Notification Of Sale:
      1.   Notification And Election: When a provider is the subject of a sale,
transfer, lease, assignment, sublease or disposed of, in whole or in part,
either by forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale, consolidation or
otherwise, such that it or its successor entity is obligated to inform or seek
the approval of the PSC, the provider or its successor entity shall promptly
notify the city of the nature of the transaction. The notification shall
include either:
         a.   The successor entity's certification that the successor entity
unequivocally agrees to all of the terms of the original provider's franchise
agreement; or
         b.   The successor entity's application in compliance with section
7-6-5 of this chapter.
      2.   Transfer Of Franchise: Upon receipt of a notification and
certification in accordance with subsection A1a of this section, the city
designee, as provided in subsection
7-6-9A1 of this chapter, shall send notice affirming the transfer of the
franchise to the successor entity. If the city has good cause to believe that
the successor entity may not comply with this chapter or the franchise
agreement, it may require an application for the transfer. The application
shall comply with section
7-6-5 of this chapter.
      3.   If PSC Approval No Longer Required: If the PSC no longer exists, or
if its regulations or state law no longer require approval of transactions
described in subsection A1 of this section, and the city has good cause to
believe that the successor entity may not comply with this chapter or the
franchise agreement, it may require an application. The application shall
comply with section
7-6-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Events Of Sale: The following events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment or other transfer of the franchise requiring compliance with
subsection A of this section:
      1.   The sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a majority of a
provider's assets to another person;
      2.   The sale, assignment or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership or other equity interests in a provider by one or more
of its existing shareholders, partners, members or other equity owners so as to
create a new controlling interest in a provider;
      3.   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership, membership
or other equity interest by a provider so as to create a new controlling
interest in such a provider; or
      4.   The entry by a provider into an agreement with respect to the
management or operation of such provider or its system. (1991 Code § 12.28.070,
as amended)
7-6-8: OVERSIGHT AND REGULATION:
   A.   Insurance, Indemnity And Security: Prior to the execution of a
franchise, a provider will deposit with the city an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit or surety bond as required by the terms of the franchise, and
shall obtain and provide proof of the insurance coverage required by the
franchise. A provider shall also indemnify the city as set forth in the
franchise.
   B.   Oversight: The city shall have the right to oversee, regulate and
inspect periodically the construction, maintenance and upgrade of the system,
and any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of the franchise and
applicable law. A provider shall establish and maintain managerial and
operational records, standards, procedures and controls to enable a provider to
prove, in reasonable detail, to the satisfaction of the city at all times
throughout the term, that a provider is in compliance with the franchise. A
provider shall retain such records for not less than the applicable statute of
limitations.
   C.   Maintain Records: A provider shall at all times maintain:
      1.   On file with the city, a full and complete set of plans, records and
as built hard copy maps and, to the extent the maps are placed in an electronic
format, they shall be made in electronic format compatible with the city's
existing GIS system, of all existing and proposed installations and the types
of equipment and systems installed or constructed in the rights of way,
properly identified and described as to the types of equipment and facility by
appropriate symbols and marks, which shall include annotations of all rights of
way where work will be undertaken. As used in this chapter, as built maps
include file construction prints. Maps shall be drawn to scale. As built maps,
including the compatible electronic format, as provided above, shall be
submitted within thirty (30) days of completion of work or within thirty (30)
days after completion of modification and repairs. As built maps are not
required of the provider who is the incumbent local exchange carrier for the
existing system to the extent they do not exist.
      2.   Throughout the term of the franchise, a provider shall maintain
complete and accurate books of account and records of the business, ownership
and operations of a provider with respect to the system in a manner that allows
the city at all times to determine whether a provider is in compliance with the
franchise. Should the city reasonably determine that the records are not being
maintained in such a manner, a provider shall alter the manner in which the
books and/or records are maintained so that a provider comes into compliance
with this section. All financial books and records which are maintained in
accordance with the regulations of the FCC and any governmental entity that
regulates utilities in the state, and generally accepted accounting principles
shall be deemed to be acceptable under this section.
   D.   Confidentiality: If the information required to be submitted is
proprietary in nature or must be kept confidential by federal, state or local
law, upon proper request by a provider, such information shall be classified as
a protected record within the meaning of the Utah government records access and
management act (GRAMA), making it available only to those who must have access
to perform their duties on behalf of the city; provided, that a provider
notifies the city of, and clearly labels the information which a provider deems
to be confidential, proprietary information. Such notification and labeling
shall be the sole responsibility of the provider.
   E.   Provider's Expense: All reports and records required under this chapter
shall be furnished at the sole expense of a provider, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter or a franchise.
   F.   Right Of Inspection: For the purpose of verifying the correct amount of
the franchise fee, the books and records of the provider pertaining thereto
shall be open to inspection or audit by duly authorized representatives of the
city at all reasonable times, upon giving reasonable notice of the intention to
inspect or audit the books and records; provided, that the city shall not audit
the books and records of the provider more often than annually. The provider
agrees to reimburse the city the reasonable costs of an audit if the audit
discloses that the provider has paid ninety five percent (95%) or less of the
compensation due the city for the period of such audit. In the event the
accounting rendered to the city by the provider in this section is found to be
incorrect, then payment shall be made on the corrected amount within thirty
(30) calendar days of written notice, it being agreed that the city may accept
any amount offered by the provider, but the acceptance thereof by the city
shall not be deemed a settlement of such item if the amount is in dispute or is
later found to be incorrect. (1991 Code § 12.28.080, as amended)
7-6-9: RIGHTS OF CITY:
   A.   Enforcement And Remedies:
      1.   Enforcement; City Designee: The city is responsible for enforcing
and administering this chapter, and the city or its designee, as appointed by
the mayor or city manager, is authorized to give any notice required by law or
under any franchise agreement.
      2.   Enforcement Provision: Any franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter shall contain appropriate provisions for enforcement, compensation and
protection of the public, consistent with the other provisions of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, defining events of default, procedures for
accessing the bond/security fund, and rights of termination or revocation.
   B.   Force Majeure: In the event a provider's performance of any of the
terms, conditions or obligations required by this chapter or a franchise is
prevented by a cause or event not within a provider's control, such inability
to perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be
imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of this section, causes or events
not within the control of a provider shall include, without limitation, acts of
God, strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, failure or loss of
utilities, explosions, acts of public enemies, and natural disasters such as
floods, earthquakes, landslides and fires.
   C.   Extended Operation And Continuity Of Services:
      1.   Continuation After Expiration: Upon either expiration or revocation
of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the city shall have discretion
to permit a provider to continue to operate its system or provide services for
an extended period of time, not to exceed six (6) months from the date of such
expiration or revocation. A provider shall continue to operate its system under
the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise granted pursuant to
this chapter.
      2.   Continuation By Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier: If the provider is
the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall be permitted to continue to
operate its system and provide services without regard to revocation or
expiration, but shall be obligated to negotiate a renewal in good faith.
   D.   Removal Or Abandonment Of Franchise Property:
      1.   Abandoned System: In the event that: a) the use of any portion of
the system is discontinued for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, and
thirty (30) days after no response to written notice from the city to the last
known address of provider; b) any system has been installed in the rights of
way without complying with the requirements of this chapter or franchise; or c)
the provisions of subsection
7-6-3D of this chapter are applicable and no franchise is granted, a provider,
except the provider who is an incumbent local exchange carrier, shall be deemed
to have abandoned such system.
      2.   Removal Of Abandoned System: The city, upon such terms as it may
impose, may give a provider written permission to abandon, without removing,
any system, or portion thereof, directly constructed, operated or maintained
under a franchise. Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, a provider shall remove within a reasonable time the
abandoned system and shall restore, using prudent construction standards, any
affected rights of way to their former state at the time such system was
installed, so as not to impair their usefulness. In removing its plant,
structures and equipment, a provider shall refill, at its own expense, any
excavation necessarily made by it and shall leave all rights of way in as good
condition as that prevailing prior to such removal without materially
interfering with any electrical or telephone cable or other utility wires,
poles or attachments. The city shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of the rights of way cables, wires, attachments and poles prior to
and after removal. The liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this
chapter and any security fund provided in a franchise shall continue in full
force and effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by a
provider with the terms and conditions of this section.
      3.   Transfer Of Abandoned System To City: Upon abandonment of any system
in place, a provider, if required by the city, shall submit to the city a
written instrument, satisfactory in form to the city, transferring to the city
the ownership of the abandoned system.
      4.   Removal Of Aboveground System: At the expiration of the term for
which a franchise is granted, or upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as
provided for by this chapter, in any such case, without renewal, extension or
transfer, the city shall have the right to require a provider to remove, at its
expense, all aboveground portions of a system from the rights of way within a
reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than one hundred eighty
(180) days. If the provider is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall
not be required to remove its system, but shall negotiate a renewal in good
faith.
      5.   Leaving Underground System: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
set forth in this chapter, a provider may abandon any underground system in
place so long as it does not materially interfere with the use of the rights of
way or with the use thereof by any public utility, cable operator or other
person. (1991 Code § 12.28.090, as amended)
7-6-10: OBLIGATION TO NOTIFY PROPERTY OWNER:
Before entering onto any private property, a provider shall make a good faith
attempt to contact the property owners in advance, and describe the work to be
performed. (1991 Code § 12.28.100, as amended)
7-6-11: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Conflicts: In the event of a conflict between any provision of this
chapter and a franchise entered pursuant to it, the provisions of this chapter
in effect at the time the franchise is entered into shall control.
   B.   Severability: If any provision of this chapter is held by any federal,
state or local court of competent jurisdiction, to be invalid as conflicting
with any federal or state statute, or is ordered by a court to be modified in
any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such law, and all
appellate remedies with regard to the validity of the chapter provisions in
question are exhausted, such provision shall be considered a separate, distinct
and independent part of this chapter, and such holding shall not affect the
validity and enforceability of all other provisions hereof. In the event that
such law is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed, so
that the provision which had been held invalid or modified is no longer in
conflict with such law the provision in question shall return to full force and
effect and shall again be binding on the city and the provider; provided, that
the city shall give the provider thirty (30) days, or a longer period of time
as may be reasonably required for a provider to comply with such a rejuvenated
provision, written notice of the change before requiring compliance with such
provision.
   C.   New Developments: It shall be the policy of the city to liberally amend
this chapter, upon application of a provider, when necessary to enable the
provider to take advantage of any developments in the field of
telecommunications which will afford the provider an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently or economically serve itself or the public.
   D.   Notices: All notices from a provider to the city required under this
chapter or pursuant to a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be
directed to the officer as designated by the mayor. A provider shall provide in
any application for a franchise the identity, address and phone number to
receive notices from the city. A provider shall immediately notify the city of
any change in its name, address or telephone number.
   E.   Exercise Of Police Power: To the full extent permitted by applicable
law either now or in the future, the city reserves the right to adopt or issue
such rules, regulations, orders, or other directives that it finds necessary or
appropriate in the lawful exercise of its police powers. (1991 Code §
12.28.110, as amended)
7-6-12: FEDERAL, STATE AND CITY JURISDICTION:
   A.   Construction: This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent
with all applicable federal and state statutes.
   B.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all franchises granted or
renewed after the effective date hereof. This chapter shall further apply, to
the extent permitted by applicable federal or state law, to all existing
franchises granted prior to the effective date hereof and to a provider
providing services, without a franchise, prior to the effective date hereof.
   C.   Other Applicable Ordinances: A provider's rights are subject to the
police powers of the city to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the
health, safety and welfare of the public. A provider shall comply with all
applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the city pursuant to its
police powers. In particular, all providers shall comply with the city zoning
and other land use requirements.
   D.   City Failure To Enforce: A provider shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or any
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter by reason of any failure of the city
to enforce prompt compliance.
   E.   Construed According To State Law: This chapter and any franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter shall be construed and enforced in accordance
with the substantive laws of the state. (1991 Code § 12.28.120, as amended)
CHAPTER 7
SURPLUS PROPERTY
SECTION:
7-7-1:   Disposition Of Real Property
7-7-2:   Declaration Of Real Property As Surplus
7-7-3:   Procedures
7-7-4:   Disposal Of Surplus Property
7-7-1: DISPOSITION OF REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   No real estate, may be sold, traded or purchased by City unless and
until the proposed sale, trade or purchase is presented to the City Council for
its approval.
   B.   The City shall not lease any real property for a term more than five
(5) years unless the lease is presented to and approved by the City Council.
The Mayor is authorized to enter into leases for five (5) years or less.
   C.   The City may not dispose of a significant parcel of real property as
defined herein unless and until the proposed disposition is presented at a
public hearing allowing for public comment.
   D.   "Significant Parcel of Real Property" is defined as any parcel, in
whole or in part, owned by the City, regardless of size or value. (Ord. 2017-
03, 7-19-2017)
7-7-2: DECLARATION OF REAL PROPERTY AS SURPLUS:
   A.   For the purposes of this section, "disposition" or "dispose" means the
transfer of ownership from the City to any other party or entity by any method.
   B.   No real property owned by the City may be disposed of unless it has
first been declared to be surplus in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
   C.   Real property may be declared surplus only by the City Council, which
must first find that it is in the public interest that the real property be
disposed of as surplus property.
   D.   In determining whether any real property shall be declared surplus, the
following must be taken into consideration:
      1.   Whether the City has, or anticipates that it will have, no
practical, economical, efficient or appropriate use for the real property
currently or in the reasonably foreseeable future.
      2.   Whether the purpose served by the real property can be better
accomplished by other alternatives or other real property.
      3.   Whether the purpose served by the property or its use either no
longer exists or has significantly changed because of the needs and demands of
the City or as may be determined by a change of policy evidenced by an
ordinance or resolution of the City Council.
      4.   Whether the purposes and interests of the City would be better
served by the declaration of the real property as surplus and the disposition
of that real property. (Ord. 2017-03, 7-19-2017)
7-7-3: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Upon the declaration of any City real property as surplus property,
such surplus real property may be disposed of by the City Council subject to
the provisions of this section.
   B.   Unless provided otherwise by this section, the disposition of City
surplus real property may be by public sale, private sale, exchange, exchange
and sale, option to purchase, lease, lease with an option to purchase, trade
in, public auction, private auction, sale upon public advertisement by sealed
bid, or by any other lawful and reasonable means.
   C.   No disposition of surplus property shall be made for less than a fair
market value unless the City Council determines that it is in the best public
interest that disposition of that surplus property he made for less than its
fair market value. The disposition of City surplus property for less than fair
market value must also be approved by the City Council. Consideration may be in
forms other than cash payment and may include the exchange of property or
services as may be reasonably determined by the City Council.
   D.   The City shall maintain records of the manner and date of the disposal
of all City surplus real property as well as the amount and nature of
consideration received for such real property.
   E.   City employees and City officers are not prohibited from purchasing
surplus City real property; provided, that the provisions of this section are
complied with and disclosure is made of the purchaser's status with the City.
   F.   If real property was acquired after May 11, 2009, by condemnation or by
the threat of condemnation it must be disposed of in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated § 78B-6-520.3. (Ord. 2017-03, 7-19-2017)
7-7-4: DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   In accordance with Utah Code Annotated § 10-7-2, as amended, a
Significant Parcel of Real Property, may be disposed of when the City Council
has:
      1.   Provided notice of the proposed disposition at least fourteen (14)
days before a public hearing providing an opportunity for public comment on the
disposition. Notice of the hearing shall be reasonable if it is posted at the
City Offices and published in a newspaper of general circulation at least one
time no less than fourteen (14) days before the date of the hearing and is
shown on the City Council Agenda on the Utah Public Notice website at least
twenty four (24) hours prior to the hearing.
      2.   Held a public hearing allowing public comment regarding the proposed
declaration of the subject real property to be surplus and to be disposed of.
      3.   By motion, subsequent to the public hearing, declared the property
to be surplus; and
      4.   By resolution, approved the disposition of the real property. The
terms of the disposition may be delegated to the Mayor or reserved by the City
Council.
   B.   Upon the adoption of a resolution of approval by the City Council, the
Mayor, and City Recorder shall execute and deliver any deed or other legal
instrument required for the conveyance of the title to the real property. (Ord.
2017-03, 7-19-2017)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
ARTICLE A. ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Water Department And System
8-1A-2: Superintendent
8-1A-3: Management And Supervision
8-1A-1: WATER DEPARTMENT AND SYSTEM:
The water department of the city is created. It shall administer the operation
and maintenance of the water system of the city. (1991 Code § 13.08.010, as
amended)
8-1A-2: SUPERINTENDENT:
There is created the position of superintendent of the water system. The
superintendent position will be filled based on the city manager's
recommendation and the mayor and city council's approval. (1991 Code §
13.08.020, as amended)
8-1A-3: MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION:
The superintendent of the water system shall manage and supervise the municipal
water system pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and pursuant to
resolutions, ordinances, rules and regulations adopted by the governing body
from time to time prescribing his powers and duties and directing the manner
and frequency with which he shall make reports to the city manager relating to
the water system. All of the functions and activities of the superintendent
shall be carried on under the direction of the city manager. (1991 Code §
13.08.030, as amended)
ARTICLE B. APPLICATION FOR SERVICE OR CONNECTION
SECTION:
8-1B-1: Water Service Application
8-1B-2: Nonowner Application
8-1B-3: Subdividers Or Developers
8-1B-1: WATER SERVICE APPLICATION:
Any person or entity desiring or who is required to secure water service when
such service is available from the city water system shall apply therefor to
the city recorder and file an agreement with the city, which shall be in such
form as approved by the city council and on file in the city office. The terms
"customer" or "user" may be used interchangeably in this chapter. (1991 Code §
13.08.040, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
8-1B-2: NONOWNER APPLICATION:
The city will only accept applications from and bill the property owner for
water services, with the exception of section
8-1B-3 of this article. The property owner shall be responsible for all water
service and other charges under this chapter. (1991 Code § 13.08.050, as
amended)
8-1B-3: SUBDIVIDERS OR DEVELOPERS:
Whenever a subdivider or developer desires or is required to install water
connections and extensions for a subdivision or development, the subdivider or
developer shall enter into a written extension agreement, which shall
constitute an application for permission to make the extensions and connections
and an agreement specifying the terms and conditions under which the water
extensions and connections shall be required and allowed. (1991 Code §
13.08.060, as amended)
ARTICLE C. RATES AND FEES
SECTION:
8-1C-1: Rates And Connection Fees
8-1C-2: Fees For Turning Water On And/Or Off
8-1C-3: Special Rates
8-1C-4: Board Of Equalization To Hear Complaints, Corrections
8-1C-5: Use Without Payment Prohibited
8-1C-6: Delinquency; Discontinuance Of Service
8-1C-1: RATES AND CONNECTION FEES:
The rates, penalty fee for delinquency in payment, connection fee, reservoir
fee, inspection fee, returned check fee, turn on and turnoff fee, and other
charges incidental to connection and service from the municipal water system,
shall be fixed from time to time by resolution or ordinance enacted by the
governing body. The governing body may from time to time promulgate rules for
levying, billing, guaranteeing and collection charges for water services and
all other rules necessary for the management and control of the water system.
Rates for services furnished shall be uniform with respect to each class or
classes of service established or that may hereafter be established. The
current rates for connection onto the water system and the monthly rates are as
follows: (Ord. 2007-07, 6-20-2007)
   A.   Within City Limits:
      1.   Minimum Monthly Rate; Single-Family Dwelling: The minimum monthly
rates for a base of twenty thousand (20,000) gallons of culinary water for a
single-family dwelling shall be set as follows:
Size Of Meter Monthly Rate
Size Of Meter Monthly Rate
   3/4 inch$ 30.50
   1 inch  30.50
   11/2 inc61.00
   2 inch  105.60
   3 inch  220.60
   4 inch  334.10
   5 inch  449.35
   6 inch  560.95
   7 inch  674.70
   8 inch  787.45
 
      2.   Minimum Monthly Rate; Multiple-Family Dwelling: The minimum monthly
rate of thirty dollars fifty cents ($30.50) per month per housing unit, for a
multiple-family dwelling;
      3.   Base Limit Allotted: Each housing unit will be allotted a base limit
of twenty thousand (20,000) gallons of water per month;
      4.   Overage Charges: For all water used in excess of twenty thousand
(20,000) gallons per month, the monthly overage charges shall be as follows:
 
20,001 to 50,000 gallons $0.60 per 1,000 gallons
50,001+ gallons          $0.80 per 1,000 gallons
 
      5.   Hookup Fees:
 
Size Of Meter Hookup Fee
   3/4 inch$ 875.00
   1 inch  925.00
   11/2 inc1,620.00
   2 inch  2,150.00
 
For any hookup fee in excess of a two inch (2") meter, the city council will
set a hookup fee when the need arises.
   B.   Outside City Limits:
      1.   A minimum monthly rate for a base of twenty thousand (20,000)
gallons of culinary water for a single-family dwelling shall be set as follows:
 
Size Of Meter Monthly Rate
   3/4 inch$61.00
   1 inch  61.00
 
      2.   A minimum monthly rate of sixty one dollars ($61.00) per month per
housing unit, for a multiple-family dwelling;
      3.   Each housing unit will be allotted a base limit of twenty thousand
(20,000) gallons of water per month;
      4.   For all water used in excess of twenty thousand (20,000) gallons per
month, the monthly overage charges shall be as follows:
 
20,001 to 50,000 gallons $1.20 per 1,000 gallons
50,001+ gallons          $1.60 per 1,000 gallons
 
      5.   The city has no intent of allowing additional hookups onto the
culinary water system in the future outside the city limits. However, if the
city council should determine there is a need in the future, the hookup fee
will be determined at that time. (Ord. 2015-05, 6-17-2015, eff. 7-1-2015)
8-1C-2: FEES FOR TURNING WATER ON AND/OR OFF:
Anytime city personnel is requested to turn water on and/or off or make a meter
reading, there will be no charge, providing the request is made through the
city office with a minimum of twenty four (24) hours' advance notice. Anytime
city personnel is requested to turn water on and/or off or make a meter
reading, without twenty four (24) hours' advance notice, there will be a twenty
five dollar ($25.00) charge added to their utility account. (1991 Code §
13.08.055, as amended)
8-1C-3: SPECIAL RATES:
The governing body may from time to time fix by agreement, resolution or
ordinance a special rate or rates and conditions for users using exceptionally
large amounts of water service or making use of the water system under
exceptional circumstances, upon such terms and conditions as they may deem
proper. (1991 Code § 13.08.080, as amended)
8-1C-4: BOARD OF EQUALIZATION TO HEAR COMPLAINTS, CORRECTIONS:
The governing body is constituted a board of equalization of water rates to
hear complaints and make corrections of any assessments deemed to be illegal,
unequal or unjust. They may, if they see fit, rebate all or any part of the
water bill of any indigent person. (1991 Code § 13.08.090, as amended)
8-1C-5: USE WITHOUT PAYMENT PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person by himself, family, servants or agents to utilize
the municipal water or sewer system without paying therefor, as provided in
this chapter, or without authority, to open any fire hydrant, stopcock, valve
or other fixtures attached to the system of water supply, unless it is done
pursuant to proper approval, application, agreement or resolution. It is
unlawful to injure, deface or impair any part or appurtenance of the water or
sewer systems, or to cast anything into any reservoir or tank belonging to the
water system. Violation of this section shall be a class C misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 13.08.100, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
8-1C-6: DELINQUENCY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Statement Of Charges: The city recorder or water superintendent shall
furnish to each user, or mail to, or leave at his place of residence or usual
place of business, a written or printed statement stating thereon the amount of
water service charges (and charges for other services may also be included)
assessed against him once each month or at such other regular interval as the
governing body shall direct.
   B.   Failure To Pay By Due Date: If the user fails to pay, within twenty
five (25) days of the due date, which due date is specified to be twenty five
(25) days from the billing date as indicated on the billing form, the charges
due for municipal utility services received by user or entity as indicated on
the statement furnished by the city, the city treasurer, city recorder or city
manager shall give the user or entity notice in writing of intent to disconnect
(or turn off) water service to the premises of the user. Unless the amount due
is paid in full within fifteen (15) days of the date of the shutoff notice, the
water service to the user will be shut off until such time as the amount owed
the city has been paid in full, including, but not limited to, all
delinquencies, shutoff fees, turn on fees and any applicable deposits imposed,
or until any failure to conform to this chapter, or resolutions issued
thereunder is eliminated.
   C.   Interest Penalty: Any utility account becoming delinquent, and with an
account balance remaining due in excess of sixty (60) days from the date of
billing, shall be subject to an interest penalty of one and one-half percent
(11/2%) per month (18 percent APR) on the unpaid or delinquent arrears balance
for utility services provided by the city, from the sixty first day until paid.
   D.   Disconnect Of Service; Charges: If the water service is thereafter
disconnected for failure to make payment, then before the water service to the
premises shall again be provided, all delinquent water charges must have been
paid to the city treasurer or arrangements made for their payment in a manner
satisfactory to the city. In the event water is turned off for nonpayment of
water charges, then before the water service to the premises shall again be
provided, the user shall pay, in addition to all delinquent water charges, a
water turnoff fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and water turn on fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00), such fee being subject to change by the governing
body from time to time by resolution or ordinance. Furthermore, in addition to
such payments and penalties, a delinquent user may be required to file a new
application and may further be required to file a utility deposit with the
city. The city recorder is authorized and empowered to enforce the payment of
all delinquent water charges by an action at law in the name of the city. (1991
Code § 13.08.110, as amended)
ARTICLE D. CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-1D-1: Purpose
8-1D-2: Definitions
8-1D-3: Protection Of System
8-1D-4: Requirements
8-1D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of cross connection control is to:
   A.   Protect the public potable water supply of the city from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating within its customer's
internal distribution system or its customer's private water system such
contaminants or pollutants which could backflow or back siphon into the public
water supply system; and
   B.   Promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between its customer's in plant potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and industrial piping systems; and
   C.   Provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross connection
control which will systemically and effectively prevent the contamination or
pollution of all potable water systems. (1991 Code § 13.08.140, as amended)
8-1D-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this article shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
APPROVED: Accepted by the superintendent and city engineer as meeting
applicable specifications stated or cited in this article, or as suitable for
the proposed use.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the city approved public potable water supply. These auxiliary waters may
include irrigation water, water from another municipality public potable water
supply, or any natural source, such as a well, spring, river, stream, harbor,
etc., or used water or industrial fluids. These waters may be polluted or
contaminated or they may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water
source over which the city does not have sanitary control.
BACK SIPHONAGE: The flow of water or other liquid mixtures, or substances into
the distributing pipes of a potable water supply system from any source other
than its intended source caused by the sudden reduction of pressure in the
potable water supply system.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances under
pressure into the distributing pipes of a potable water supply system from any
source or sources other than its intended source.
BACKFLOW PREVENTER: A device or means designated to prevent backflow siphonage.
   A.   Air Gap: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixtures, or other device and the flood level rim to the vessel. An
approved air gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe,
measured vertically, above the top of the rim of the vessel; and, in no case
less than one inch (1"). When an air gap is used at the service connection to
prevent the contamination or pollution of the public potable water system, an
emergency bypass shall be installed around the air gap system and an approved
reduced pressure principle device shall be installed in the bypass system.
   B.   Double Check Valve Assembly: An assembly of two (2) independently
operating approved check valves with tightly closing shutoff valves on each
side of the check valves, plus properly located test cocks for the testing of
each check valve. The entire assembly shall meet the design and performance
specifications and approval of a recognized and city approved testing agency
for backflow prevention devices. To be approved, these devices must be readily
accessible for in-line maintenance and testing.
   C.   Reduced Pressure Principle Device: An assembly of two (2) independently
operating approved check valves with an automatically operating differential
relief valve between the two (2) check valves, tightly closing shutoff valves
on either side of the check valves, plus properly located test cocks for the
testing of the check and relief valves. The entire assembly shall meet the
design and performance specifications and approval of a recognized and city
approved testing agency for backflow prevention assemblies. The device shall
operate to maintain the pressure in the zone between the two (2) check valves
at a level less than the pressure on the public water supply side of the
device. At cessation of normal flow, the pressure between the two (2) check
valves shall be less than the pressure on the public water side of the device.
In case of leakage of either of the check valves, the differential reduced
pressure in the zone between the check valves shall stabilize by discharging to
the atmosphere. When the inlet pressure is two (2) pounds per square inch or
less, the relief valve shall open to the atmosphere. To be approved, these
devices must be readily accessible for in-line maintenance and testing and be
installed in a location where no part of the device will be submerged.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the validity of potable water by sewage,
industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials to a degree
which creates an actual hazard to the public health through poisoning or
through the spread of disease.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or fixtures
between two (2) otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains
potable water and the other nonpotable water or industrial fluids of
questionable safety, through which, or because of which, backflow or back
siphonage may occur into the potable water system. A water service connection
between a public potable water distribution system and a customer's water
distribution system which is cross connected to a contaminated fixture,
industrial fluid system or with a potentially contaminated supply or auxiliary
water system, constitutes one type of cross connection. Other types of cross
connections include connectors such as swing connections, removal sections,
four-way plug valves, spools, dummy sections of pipe, swivel or change over
devices, sliding multiport tubes, solid connections, etc.
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL BY CONTAINMENT: The installation of an approved
backflow prevention device at the water service connection to any customer's
premises when it is physically and economically unfeasible to find and
permanently eliminate or control all actual or potential cross connections
within the customer's water system; or, it shall mean the installation of an
approved backflow prevention device on the service line leading to and
supplying a portion of a customer's water system where there are actual or
potential cross connections which cannot be effectively eliminated or
controlled at the point of cross connection.
CROSS CONNECTION, CONTROLLED: A connection between a potable water system and a
nonpotable water system with an approved backflow prevention device properly
installed that will continuously afford the protection commensurate with the
degree of hazard.
HAZARD, DEGREE OF: The term is derived from an evaluation of the potential risk
to public health and the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water
system.
   A.   Health Hazard: Any condition, device or practice in the water supply
system and its operation which could create, or in the judgment of the city
engineer may create, a danger to the health and well being of the water
consumer. An example of a health hazard is a structural defect, including cross
connections, in a water supply system.
   B.   Plumbing Hazard: A plumbing type cross connection in a consumer's
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air gap separation or backflow prevention device. Unprotected plumbing type
cross connections are considered to be a health hazard.
   C.   Pollution Hazard: An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the potability of the public or the
consumer's potable water system, but which would constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its
appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
   D.   System Hazard: An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer's
potable water system, or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS SYSTEM: Any system containing a fluid or solution which may
be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or
concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollution or plumbing
hazard if introduced into an approved water supply. This may include, but not
be limited to: polluted or contaminated waters; all types of process waters and
used waters originating from the public potable water system which may have
deteriorated in sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating acids and
alkalies, circulated cooling towers connected to an open cooling tower and/or
cooling towers that are chemically or biologically treated or stabilized with
toxic substances; contaminated natural waters such as from wells, springs,
streams, rivers, bays, harbors, seas, irrigation canals or systems, etc.; oils,
gases, glycerine paraffins, caustic and acid solutions and other liquid and
gaseous fluids used in industrial or other purposes or for firefighting
purposes.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water which is not safe for human consumption or which is of
questionable potability.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does
not create an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such waters for domestic use.
POTABLE WATER: Any water which, according to recognized standards, is safe for
human consumption.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent for the city water department and the city
engineer are vested with the authority and responsibility for the
implementation of an effective cross connection control program and for the
enforcement of the provisions of this article.
USED WATER: Any water supplied by the city from a public potable water system
to a consumer's water system after it has passed through the point of delivery
and is no longer under the sanitary control of the city.
WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS: The terminal end of a service connection from the
public potable water system; i.e., where the city loses jurisdiction and
sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to the customer's
water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service connection,
then the "service connection" means the downstream end of the meter. There
should be no unprotected takeoffs from the service line ahead of any meter or
backflow prevention device located at the point of delivery to the customer's
water system. "Service connection" shall also include water service connection
from a fire hydrant and all other temporary or emergency water service
connections from the public potable water system. (1991 Code § 13.08.150, as
amended; amd. 2009 Code)
8-1D-3: PROTECTION OF SYSTEM:
The superintendent of the water department, hereinafter referred to as the
"superintendent", shall be responsible for the protection of the public potable
water distribution system from contamination or pollution due to the backflow
or back siphonage of contaminants or pollutants through the water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the city engineer, an approved backflow
prevention device is required at the city's water service connection to any
customer's premises, for the safety of the water system, the city engineer or
his designated agent shall give notice in writing to the customer to install
such an approved backflow prevention device at each service connection to his
premises. The customer shall immediately install such approved device or
devices at his own expense. Failure, refusal or inability on the part of the
customer to install the device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds
for discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or devices
have been properly installed. (1991 Code § 13.08.140, as amended)
8-1D-4: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Water System:
      1.   The water system shall be considered as made of up two (2) parts:
the utility system and the consumer system.
      2.   The utility system shall consist of the source facilities and the
distribution system; and shall include all those facilities of the water system
under the complete control of the utility, up to the point where the customer's
system begins.
      3.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the distribution
system.
      4.   The distribution system shall include the network of conduits used
for the delivery of water from the source to the customer's system.
      5.   The customer's system shall include those parts of the facilities
beyond the termination of the utility distribution system which are utilized in
converting utility delivered domestic water to points of use.
   B.   Policy:
      1.   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the city unless the water supply is protected as required by
state laws and regulations, and this article. Service of water to any premises
shall be discontinued by the city if a backflow prevention device has been
removed, bypassed, or if an unprotected cross connection exists on the
premises. Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are
corrected.
      2.   The customer's system should be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city to determine whether
cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including violations
of these regulations, exist. When such a condition becomes known, the
superintendent shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by
providing for a physical break in the service line until the customer has
corrected the condition in conformance with state and city statutes relating to
plumbing and water supplies, and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
      3.   An approved backflow prevention device shall also be installed on
each service line to a customer's water system at or near the property line or
immediately inside the building being served; but, in all cases, before the
first branch line leaving off the service line wherever the following
conditions exist:
         a.   In the case of premises having an auxiliary water supply which is
not or may not be of safe bacteriological or chemical quality and which is not
acceptable as an additional source by the superintendent or city engineer, the
public water system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by
installing a backflow prevention device in the service line appropriate to the
degree of hazard.
         b.   In the case of premises on which any industrial fluids or any
other objectionable substance is handled in such a fashion as to create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water system, the public system shall
be protected against backflow from the premises by installing a backflow
prevention device in the service line appropriate to the degree of hazard. This
shall include the handling of process waters and waters originating from the
utility system which have been subject to deterioration in quality.
         c.   In the case of premises having: 1) internal cross connections
that cannot be permanently corrected and controlled; or 2) intricate plumbing
and piping arrangement or where entry to all portions of the premises is not
readily accessible for inspection purposes, making it impracticable or
impossible to ascertain whether or not dangerous cross connections exist, the
public water system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by
installing a backflow prevention device in the service line.
      4.   The type of protective device required under subsection B3 of this
section shall depend upon the degree of hazard which exists as follows:
         a.   In the case of any premises where there is an auxiliary water
supply as stated in subsection B3a of this section and it is not subject to any
of the following rules, the public water system shall be protected by an
approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device.
         b.   In the case of any premises where there is water or substance
that would be objectionable but not hazardous to health, if introduced into the
public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved
double check valve assembly.
         c.   In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous
to health which is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water system, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device. Examples of premises where these
conditions will exist include sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations,
chemical manufacturing plants, hospitals, mortuaries and plating plants.
         d.   In the case of any premises where there are uncontrolled cross
connections, either actual or potential, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device at the service connection.
         e.   In the case of any premises where, because of security
requirements or other prohibitions or restrictions it is impossible or
impractical to make a complete in plant cross connection survey, the public
water system shall be protected against backflow or back siphonage from the
premises by the installation of a backflow prevention device in the service
line. In this case, maximum protection will be required; that is an approved
air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed in each service to the premises.
      5.   a. Any backflow prevention device required herein shall be of a
model and size approved by the city engineer and superintendent. "Approved
backflow prevention device" means a device that has been manufactured in full
conformance with the standards established by the American Water Works
Association entitled, "AWWA C506-78, Standards For Reduced Pressure Principle
And Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention Devices", or the most recent
equivalent standards; or the IAPMO, or the most recent equivalent standards; or
the current Utah plumbing code, and have met completely the laboratory and
field performance specifications of the foundation for cross connection control
and hydraulic research of the University of Southern California established by
specifications of backflow prevention devices, no. 69-2, dated March 1969, or
the most current issue.
         b.   The AWWA and FCCC and HR standards and specifications have been
adopted by the superintendent. Final approval shall be evidenced by a
certificate of approval issued by an approved testing laboratory certifying
full compliance with the AWWA standards and FCCC and HR specifications.
         c.   The following testing laboratory has been qualified by the
superintendent to test and certify backflow preventers:
Foundation for Cross Connection Control & Hydraulic Research
University of Southern California
University Park
Los Angeles, California 90007
         d.   Testing laboratories other than the laboratory listed above will
be added to an approved list as they are qualified by the superintendent.
         e.   Backflow preventers which may be subjected to back pressure or
back siphonage that have been fully tested and have been granted a certificate
of approval by the qualified laboratory and are listed on the laboratory's
current list of approved devices, may be used without further test or
qualifications.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the customer-user at any premises where
backflow prevention devices are installed to have certified inspections and
operational tests made at least once per year. In those instances where the
city engineer deems the hazard to be great enough, the city engineer may
require certified inspections at more frequent intervals. These inspections and
tests shall be at the expense of the water user and shall be performed by the
device manufacturer's representative or by a certified tester approved by the
city engineer. It shall be the duty of the superintendent to see that these
timely tests are made. It is unlawful for any city employee to make such tests.
The customer-user shall notify the superintendent in advance when the tests are
to be undertaken so that he or his representatives or the city engineer may
witness the tests if so desired. These devices shall be repaired, overhauled or
replaced at the expense of the customer-user whenever the devices are found to
be defective. Records of such tests, repairs and overhaul shall be kept and
made available on request to the city engineer, superintendent and to the state
environmental health department.
      7.   All presently installed backflow prevention devices which do meet
requirements of this article but were approved devices for the purposes
described in this article at the time of installation and which have been
properly maintained, shall, except for the inspection and maintenance
requirements under subsection B6 of this section, be excluded from the
requirements of these rules so long as the city engineer is assured that they
will satisfactorily protect the utility system. Whenever the existing device is
moved from the present location or requires more than minimum maintenance, or
when the city engineer finds that the maintenance constitutes a hazard to
health, the unit shall be replaced by a backflow prevention device meeting the
requirements of this article. (1991 Code § 13.08.160, as amended)
ARTICLE E. USE AND SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1E-1: Turning On Water After Being Turned Off
8-1E-2: City Personnel To Turn Water On Or Off
8-1E-3: Separate Connections Required
8-1E-4: Unauthorized Users
8-1E-5: Period For Visitors
8-1E-6: Pipe Maintenance
8-1E-7: Service Pipe Quality
8-1E-8: Faulty Equipment Prohibited
8-1E-9: Water Meters
8-1E-10: Sprinkling Vehicles
8-1E-11: Access By Department
8-1E-12: Nonliability For Damages
8-1E-13: Use Of System Mandatory
8-1E-14: Utility Service Lines Under Paved City Streets
8-1E-15: Supply For Motors Or Engines Prohibited
8-1E-16: Sprinkler Use Restrictions
8-1E-17: Scarcity Of Water
8-1E-18: Waste Of Water
8-1E-19: Tampering With System Prohibited
8-1E-20: Installation Permits
8-1E-21: Application For Installation Permit
8-1E-22: Water Line Replacement
8-1E-23: Plumbing Requirements For Permit Issuance
8-1E-24: Service Discontinuance Request By Customer
8-1E-25: Fire Hydrants
8-1E-26: Extensions
8-1E-27: Water Service To Users Outside City Limits
8-1E-28: Penalty
8-1E-1: TURNING ON WATER AFTER BEING TURNED OFF:
It is unlawful for any person, after the water has been turned off from the
premises for nonpayment of water charges or other violation of the ordinances,
rules, regulations or resolutions pertaining to the water supply, to turn on or
allow the water to be turned on or used by other city personnel. Violation of
this section shall be a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 13.08.120, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
8-1E-2: CITY PERSONNEL TO TURN WATER ON OR OFF:
It is unlawful for any person, other than city personnel, to turn the water off
or on at the city meter, other than in a case of an emergency. An "emergency"
in this section is defined as threatening or damaging to life or property, and
must be confirmed by the city manager and superintendent.  Violation of this
section shall be a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 13.08.125, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
8-1E-3: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for two (2) or more families or services users to be supplied
from the same service pipe, connection or water meter, unless special
permission for such combination usage has been granted by the governing body
and the premises served are owned by the same owner. In all such cases, a
failure on the part of any one of the users to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall warrant a withholding of a supply of water through the
service connections, by a disconnection therefrom, until compliance or payment
has been made, and in any event, the property owner shall be primarily liable
to the city for all water services utilized on all such premises. Nothing in
this chapter shall be deemed to preclude the power of the city to require
separate pipes, connections or meters at a subsequent time. (1991 Code §
13.08.130, as amended)
8-1E-4: UNAUTHORIZED USERS:
It is unlawful for any water service user to permit any person from other
premises or any unauthorized person to use or obtain water services regularly
from his premises or water facilities, either outside or inside his premises.
(1991 Code § 13.08.170, as amended)
8-1E-5: PERIOD FOR VISITORS:
Individuals visiting the premises of an authorized user in a recreational
vehicle, not including a mobile home, and continuing to live therein during the
period of visitation, may receive water service from the service pipes or
facilities of the host during the visitation period, which shall not exceed two
(2) months. Continued use thereafter shall be deemed unauthorized and violative
of the provisions of this article relating to separate connections and
unauthorized use. (1991 Code § 13.08.180, as amended)
8-1E-6: PIPE MAINTENANCE:
All users of water services shall keep their service pipes and connections and
other apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at their own expense.
No person, except under the direction of the water superintendent or city
engineer, shall be allowed to dig into the street for the purpose of laying,
removing or repairing any service pipe. (1991 Code § 13.08.250, as amended)
8-1E-7: SERVICE PIPE QUALITY:
   A.   All service and other pipe used in conjunction with the water services
of the city shall be of such material, quality and specifications as the
governing body and/or city engineer may from time to time by resolution or
ordinance provide, and shall be installed at such distances below ground as may
be specified by regulations relating to the water system and/or established by
the city engineer, with city council approval. All work, alterations or
extensions affecting water pipes shall be subject to the acceptance of the city
engineer, and no connections with any watermains shall be made without first
obtaining a permit therefor from the city recorder.
   B.   No consumer shall be permitted to conduct water pipes across lots or
buildings to adjoining premises without permission from the city engineer and
the city council, and each shall be subject to such requirements relating to
controls as may be imposed by them. (1991 Code § 13.08.260, as amended)
8-1E-8: FAULTY EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any water user to:
   A.   Waste water;
   B.   Allow it to be wasted by stops, taps, valves, leaky joints or pipes, or
to allow tanks or watering troughs to leak or overflow;
   C.   Wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets or stops or through basins,
water closets, urinals, sinks or other apparatus;
   D.   Use the water for purposes other than those for which he has applied,
or to use water in violation of the rules and regulations for controlling the
water supply. (1991 Code § 13.08.270, as amended)
8-1E-9: WATER METERS:
   A.   Required: All structures, dwelling units and establishments using water
from the city system must have such number of water meters connected to their
systems as are necessary in the judgment of the city engineer and
superintendent to adequately measure use and determine water charges to the
respective water users. Meters will be furnished by the city at the expense of
the property owner at rates established from time to time by resolution or
ordinance, but all meters shall be deemed to be and remain the property of the
city. In the event of a dispute as to the number of meters necessary, the
matter shall be heard and determined by the city council after due notice in
writing to the parties involved. (1991 Code § 13.08.280, as amended; amd. 2009
Code)
   B.   Meter Readings: The superintendent shall cause meter readings to be
taken regularly and shall advise the city recorder for the purpose of recording
the necessary billings for water services.
   C.   Inspections: Meters may be checked, inspected or adjusted at the
discretion of the city, and they shall not be adjusted or tampered with by the
customer.
   D.   Repairs: All damages or injury to the lines, meters or other materials
of the city on or near the customer's premises caused by the act or neglect of
the customer shall, in the discretion of the city, be repaired by and at the
expense of the customer, and the customer shall pay all costs and expenses,
including a reasonable attorney fee, which may arise or accrue to the city
through its efforts to repair the damage to the lines, meters or to other
equipment of the department, or collect such costs from the customer. (1991
Code § 13.08.280, as amended)
8-1E-10: SPRINKLING VEHICLES:
Vehicles for sprinkling shall be regulated and controlled by the water
department, through the superintendent. (1991 Code § 13.08.290, as amended)
8-1E-11: ACCESS BY DEPARTMENT:
The water superintendent and his agents and/or the city engineer shall at all
ordinary hours, have free access to any place supplied with water services from
the municipal system for the purposes of examining the apparatus and
ascertaining the amount of water service being used and the manner of its use.
(1991 Code § 13.08.300, as amended)
8-1E-12: NONLIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
The city shall not be liable for any damage to a water service user by reason
of stoppage or interruption of his or her water supply service caused by fires,
scarcity of water, accidents to the water system or its mains, or which occurs
as the result of maintenance and extension operations, or from any other
unavoidable cause. This section shall not be construed to extend the liability
of the city beyond that provided in the governmental immunity act. (1991 Code §
13.08.310, as amended)
8-1E-13: USE OF SYSTEM MANDATORY 1 :
It is unlawful for the owner or any other person occupying or having charge of
any premises within the city limits, where the property line of such premises
is situated within three hundred feet (300') of the city water system, to use
or distribute water other than from the city culinary water system. It is the
city's intent to provide for mandatory hookup to the municipal water system
where the water is available and within three hundred feet (300') of any
property line, which property has or shall have located on it, any building
used for human occupancy. Said owner or any other person, as referred to
herein, shall have a period of one year from the date the water system is
available and within three hundred feet (300') of his/her/its property line,
within which to complete connection to the water system for existing buildings;
and shall connect to the water system when so available before occupancy for
new buildings. Further, it is unlawful for a person to use or distribute water
other than water from the city water system under the following circumstances:
   A.   If the water does not conform to the standards for culinary water
imposed by the state department of health;
   B.   If the water is obtained from a well of less than one hundred feet
(100') in depth or from any source which is subject to become contaminated,
e.g., surface runoff water;
   C.   No operator of a trailer court, motel, apartment house or of other
lodging places shall furnish water from other than the city water system to his
patrons;
   D.   The provisions of this chapter and in particular, the provisions of
this section, shall be construed so as to be applied consistently with and so
to not be in conflict with the provisions of the subdivision ordinance applying
specifically to subdivisions within three hundred feet (300') of a water main,
and additionally requiring that all other subdivisions within the corporate
boundaries of the city connect to the water system of the city. (1991 Code §
13.08.320, as amended)
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1 4-7-3B of this code, subsection
  8-3-2D of this title, and subsections
  11-5-7C1 and 11-5-7D of this code for 300 foot connection requirements.
8-1E-14: UTILITY SERVICE LINES UNDER PAVED CITY STREETS 1 :
On any paved city street, it shall be required to bore under the road for all
utility service lines, which include, but are not limited to, culinary water,
sewer, telephone, natural gas, electrical power and cable television. The city
does not allow the pavement to be cut, then compacted and resurfaced for
utility service lines. (1991 Code § 13.08.325, as amended)
 
Notes
  2. See also section
1 7-4-12 of this code and subsection
  8-3-8C1 of this title.
8-1E-15: SUPPLY FOR MOTORS OR ENGINES PROHIBITED:
No water shall be supplied from the pipes of the municipal water system for the
purpose of driving a motor, syphon, turbine or other wheels, or any hydraulic
engines, or elevators, or for driving or propelling machinery of any kind
whatsoever, nor shall any license be granted or issued for any such purpose,
except by special permission of the governing body. (1991 Code § 13.08.330, as
amended)
8-1E-16: SPRINKLER USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Regulation Authorized: It is unlawful for any person to use such number
of outlets simultaneously or to use such sprinkler or combinations of
sprinklers or outlets as will in the opinion of the governing body materially
affect the pressure or supply of water in the municipal water system, or any
part thereof, and the governing body may from time to time, by resolution or
ordinance, specify combinations or numbers of outlets which may have such
effect.
   B.   Notice Of Violation: The governing body shall, after determining that
such improper use exists, notify the affected water user or the owner of the
premises whereon such use occurs of such determination in writing, order such
discontinued and advise that such continued usage constitutes a violation of
this section. (1991 Code § 13.08.340, as amended)
8-1E-17: SCARCITY OF WATER:
In time of scarcity of water, whenever it shall in the judgment of the mayor
and the governing body be necessary, the mayor shall by proclamation limit the
use of water to such extent as may be necessary. It shall be unlawful for any
person, his family, servants or agents, to violate any proclamation made by the
mayor in pursuance to this section. (1991 Code § 13.08.350, as amended)
8-1E-18: WASTE OF WATER:
   A.   Prohibited: Users of water from the municipal water system shall not
permit water to continue to run wastefully and without due efforts to conserve
water. If, in the judgment of the water superintendent or of any of the
officers of the city, a user of municipal water engages in practices which
result in the needless waste of water and continues so to do after reasonable
notice to discontinue wastefulness has been given, the superintendent, or any
officer, may refer the matter to the governing body.
   B.   Termination; Notice: The governing body may thereupon consider
terminating the right of the individual to use culinary water. If it elects to
consider the matter of termination, it shall give notice to the water user of
the intention to terminate his water connection at least five (5) days prior to
the meeting of the governing body at which termination of water service is to
be considered. The notice shall inform him of the time and place of the meeting
and of the charges which lead to the consideration of the termination.
   C.   Hearing: A water user whose right to utilize municipal water is being
reviewed shall have the opportunity to appear, with or without counsel, and
present his reasons why his water service should not be discontinued.
   D.   Determination: After due hearing, the governing body may arrive at a
determination. If the determination is to discontinue the wasteful water user's
service connection, it shall notify him of the decision and of the period
during which the service will remain discontinued. (1991 Code § 13.08.360, as
amended)
8-1E-19: TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for anyone, other than the municipal employees and the city
engineer, to tamper with any part of the municipal water system, including the
meter and meter box. Meter boxes shall not be opened for the purpose of turning
on or off the water, except by an authorized representative of the city, unless
special permission is given by the city through its representatives to the
customer to do so. Tampering with any part of the water system will be
classified as a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 13.08.370, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
8-1E-20: INSTALLATION PERMITS:
It is unlawful for any person to lay, repair, alter or connect any water line
to the municipal culinary water system without first having received a
construction permit from the office of the city recorder, or from the city
engineer. (1991 Code § 13.08.380, as amended)
8-1E-21: APPLICATION FOR INSTALLATION PERMIT:
   A.   Required: Applications for permits to make water connections or other
alteration or for laying or repairing lines connected directly or indirectly to
the municipal water system must be made in writing by a licensed plumber, his
authorized agent, or by the owner of the premises, who shall describe the
nature of the work to be done for which the application is made.
   B.   Determination For Granting Permit: The application shall be granted if
the city engineer and superintendent determines that:
      1.   The connection, repair, alteration or installation will cause no
damage to the street in which the water main is laid, or that it will not be
prejudicial to the interests of persons whose property has been or may
thereafter be connected to the water main.
      2.   The connection conforms to the ordinances, regulations,
specifications and standards of materials required by the city, or that which
would service the best interests of the city in his opinion.
      3.   All connections, alterations or installations shall be to the line
and grade designated by the city engineer and superintendent.
   C.   Fees: Fees for permits or for inspection services shall be of such
amounts as the governing body shall from time to time determine by resolution
or ordinance. (1991 Code § 13.08.390, as amended)
8-1E-22: WATER LINE REPLACEMENT:
In the event that the city, in its sole discretion, determines that any water
line of the city must be moved or replaced, the city shall bear that portion of
the cost of such move or replacement which applies to main lines up to the
water meter or property line of the customer. The cost of reconnecting such new
line or lines from the house of the customer to his property line shall be
borne by the customer. (1991 Code § 13.08.400, as amended)
8-1E-23: PLUMBING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMIT ISSUANCE:
Permission to connect with the municipal water system shall not be given unless
the plumbing in the house or building to be connected meets the provisions of
the building and plumbing codes of the city. (1991 Code § 13.08.410, as
amended)
8-1E-24: SERVICE DISCONTINUANCE REQUEST BY CUSTOMER:
Any customer desiring to discontinue service shall notify the municipal office
in writing of such fact at least one week before the date when such service
shall be discontinued. On giving such written notice, the customer shall not be
responsible for water bills incurred after the date specified in the notice.
(1991 Code § 13.08.420, as amended)
8-1E-25: FIRE HYDRANTS:
Water for fire hydrants will be furnished free of charge by the city.
Installation and repair on such hydrants shall be the expense of the city and
shall be made under the direction of the city. All customers shall grant the
city, upon demand, a right of way or easement to install and maintain such
hydrants on their premises if the city concludes that hydrants shall be so
installed for the protection of the residents. (1991 Code § 13.08.430, as
amended)
8-1E-26: EXTENSIONS:
   A.   The cost of any extension of any culinary water mainline will be borne
entirely by the individuals or entity in which the service will be provided to.
On any paved street it shall be required to bore under the road for all utility
service lines, which include, but are not limited to, culinary water, sewer,
telephone, natural gas, electrical power, and cable television. The city does
not allow the pavement to be cut, then compacted and resurfaced for utility
lines.
   B.   On any extension ("extension" means when an individual or entity
requests to connect onto the existing culinary water main line, and continue to
add additional footage to the culinary water system) they shall be required to
extend the culinary water main line the entire frontage of the lot or the
entire frontage of the subdivision. All extensions will be completed in
accordance to city specifications. (1991 Code § 13.08.440, as amended)
8-1E-27: WATER SERVICE TO USERS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   Authority: Subject to state statute, which authorizes the sale and
delivery of the surplus product or service capacity of the waterworks, not
required by the city or its inhabitants, to others beyond the limits of the
city, the city may furnish water service from its water system to persons
outside the city in accordance with the provisions of the water ordinance and
state statute.
   B.   Application: Any person or entity located outside the municipal limits
who desires to be supplied with water services from the municipal water system
and is willing to pay in advance the whole expense of extending the water
system to his property, including the cost of extending any water main beyond
its present location, may make application to the governing body by petition
containing:
      1.   A description of the proposed extension;
      2.   A map showing the location thereof;
      3.   An offer to pay the whole expense incurred by the city in providing
such extension and to advance such expense as shall be verified by the city
engineer. The governing body and the person seeking such extension may enter
into an agreement providing in detail the terms under which the city will
provide the water service;
      4.   An acknowledgment, in writing, that the city, in granting the
petition, need supply only such water to the petitioner which from time to time
the governing body deems beyond the requirements of water users within the
municipal limits, and that such extension shall be the property of and subject
to the control of the city;
      5.   The procedure for having the work done will be the same as in
section
8-1E-26 of this article;
      6.   Effective March 1, 1992, the governing body will not sell water to
any new user or customer outside the city limits, if it is possible that the
user or customer could annex the property into the city limits where the water
will ultimately be used. (1991 Code § 13.08.450, as amended)
8-1E-28: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, the violation of any part of this chapter shall
constitute a class B misdemeanor, and each day such violation continues shall
be deemed a separate offense and, upon conviction for violation, such offender
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 13.08.460, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION
SECTION:
8-2-1: Title, Applicability, Authority
8-2-2: Purpose And Intent
8-2-3: Administration
8-2-4: Definitions
8-2-5: Extent And Designation Of Recharge Areas And Protection Zones; Map
8-2-6: Permitted And Prohibited Uses
8-2-7: Management Strategies And Performance Standards
8-2-8: Exclusions And Exemptions
8-2-9: Inspections; Violations
8-2-10: Appeals
8-2-11: Disputes
8-2-12: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
8-2-13: Review Of Provisions
8-2-14: Liability
8-2-15: Generic Regulated Substance List
8-2-1: TITLE, APPLICABILITY, AUTHORITY:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the DRINKING WATER SOURCE
PROTECTION ORDINANCE. The provisions of this chapter shall be effective within
the area which affects the aquifers as shown on exhibit 1 attached to ordinance
2000-02 and on file in the city recorder's office, and shall set prohibitions
and restrictions to prevent contamination of the public drinking water supply
in the city as a result of hazardous and toxic substances entering the ground
water. This chapter shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes set
forth herein.
   B.   Applicability: It shall be the responsibility of any person owning real
property and/or owning or operating a business within the jurisdiction of the
city to conform and comply with the applicable provisions contained in this
chapter. Ignorance of this provision shall not excuse any violations of the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Authority: The city has the authority to adopt this chapter to
facilitate compliance with drinking water source protection regulations
pursuant to the land use, development and management act, Utah Code Annotated
section 10-9a-102, the Utah administrative code section R309-113, and other
such authorities and provisions as in the statutory and common law of the
state. (1991 Code § 13.12.010, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
8-2-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to protect, preserve and maintain
existing and potential public drinking water sources in order to safeguard the
public health, safety and welfare of city residents and visitors. The intent of
this chapter is to establish and designate drinking water source protection
zones and ground water recharge areas for all sources of public drinking water
within city boundaries and jurisdiction, which affect the aquifers as shown on
exhibit 1, attached to ordinance 2000-02 and on file in the city recorder's
office. This chapter establishes criteria for regulating the storage, handling,
use or production of hazardous or toxic substances within identified areas
where ground water is, or could be, affected by the potential contamination
source. This shall be accomplished by the designation and regulation of
property uses and conditions that may be maintained within such zones or areas.
Unless otherwise specified, the provisions of this chapter apply to new
development and/or improvements to existing facilities, and/or handling,
movement and storage of potentially hazardous materials.
   B.   The degree of protection afforded by this chapter is considered
adequate for regulatory purposes. This chapter does not ensure that public
drinking water sources will not be subject to accidental or intentional
contamination, nor does it create liability on the part of the city, or an
officer or employee thereof, for any damages to the public water supplies from
reliance on this chapter, nor any administrative order lawfully made
thereunder.
   C.   A notice to cease or an exemption issued under this chapter shall not
relieve the owner of the obligation to comply with any other applicable
federal, state, regional or local regulations, rule, ordinance or requirement,
nor shall such notice or exemption relieve any owner of any liability for
violation of such regulations, rules, ordinances, or requirements. (1991 Code §
13.12.020, as amended)
8-2-3: ADMINISTRATION:
The policies and procedures for administration of any protection zone or
primary and secondary recharge area established under this chapter, including,
without limitation, those applicable to nonconforming uses, exceptions,
enforcement and penalties, shall be the same as provided in any existing
ordinance in the city, as the same is presently enacted or may from time to
time be amended. (1991 Code § 13.12.110, as amended)
8-2-4: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be defined as follows:
ABANDONED WELL: A well, the use of which has been permanently discontinued or
is in such a state of disrepair that it cannot be used for its intended purpose
or for observation purposes.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): A practice or combination of practices
determined to be the most effective practicable (including technological,
economic and institutional considerations) means of preventing or reducing the
amount of pollution to a level compatible with water, soil and air quality
goals. Copies of BMPs are available at the department of environmental quality,
division of drinking water.
CFR: Code of federal regulations.
CITY: Wellsville City, Utah.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of Wellsville City.
CLOSURE: The cessation of operation of a facility, or any portion thereof, and
the act of securing such facility or portion thereof, to ensure protection of
ground water in accordance with the appropriate state, federal and local
regulations applicable to the specific facility and with the provisions of this
chapter.
CODE: The Wellsville City municipal code.
CODE INSPECTOR: Any authorized agent or employee of the city whose duty is to
assure code compliance.
COLLECTION AREA: The area surrounding a ground water source which is underlain
by collection pipes, tile, tunnels, infiltration boxes, or other ground water
collection devices.
CONTINUOUS TRANSIT: The nonstop movement of a mobile vehicle, except for stops
required by traffic laws.
DWSP: Drinking water source protection.
DEPARTMENT: The individual, public agency, division, or department designated
by Wellsville City to enforce the provisions of this chapter. For Wellsville
City, the departments are public utilities, city manager, mayor, city council,
planning commission, and Bear River health.
DESIGN STANDARD: A control which is implemented by a potential contamination
source to prevent discharges to the ground water. Spill protection is an
example of "design standard".
DISCHARGE: Means and includes, but is not limited to, spilling, leaking,
seeping, pouring, injecting, emitting, emptying, disposing, releasing or
dumping regulated substances to the soils, air, ground waters or surface waters
of the city. "Discharge" does not include the use of a regulated substance in
accordance with the appropriate use intended or specified by the manufacturer
of the substances; provided, that such use is not prohibited by federal, state
or local regulations. "Discharge" shall not include releases specifically
authorized by federal or state permits.
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION REVIEW COMMITTEE: The city manager, city
engineer, public works director and mayor, whose purpose is to make
determinations regarding delineation of protection areas and zones.
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION ZONE: An area within which certain practices
are mandated to protect ground water flowing to public drinking water wells
and/or springs.
DRINKING WATER SUPPLY SPRING: A drinking water spring to supply water which has
been permitted or intended for consumptive use.
DRINKING WATER SUPPLY WELL: A drinking water well to supply water which has
been permitted or intended for consumptive use.
EPA: The U.S. environmental protection agency.
GROUND WATER: Any water which may be drawn from the ground.
GROUND WATER DISCHARGE AREA: An area where the direction of ground water
movement is upward from the principal aquifer to the shallow unconfined
aquifer. Discharge areas, determined by the United States geological survey
(USGS), are shown on exhibit 1, attached to ordinance 2000-02 and on file in
the city recorder's office.
GROUND WATER DIVIDE: A ridge in the water table or potentiometric surface, from
which ground water moves away in both directions.
GROUND WATER TOT: Time of travel for ground water.
HANDLE: To use, generate, process, produce, package, treat, store or transport
a regulated substance in any fashion.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: A "hazardous waste", as defined by the U.S. EPA.
LAND MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES: Zoning and nonzoning controls which include, but
are not limited to, the following: zoning and subdivision ordinances, site plan
reviews, design and operating standards, development rights, public education
programs, ground water monitoring, household hazardous waste collection
programs, water conservation programs, memoranda of understanding, written
contracts and agreements, and so forth.
NONRESIDENTIAL: All activity that is not designated as residential.
OPERATING PERMIT: A permit to operate a facility handling regulated substances
under this chapter. The permit will be approved by the city council.
PCS: Potential contaminant source.
PWS: Public water system.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association, joint
venture, governmental entity or other legal entity, and shall include the
plural, as well as singular.
PETROLEUM PRODUCT: Includes fuels (gasoline, diesel fuel, kerosene, and
mixtures of these products), lubricating oils, motor oils (new and used),
hydraulic fluids, and other similar petroleum based products.
POLLUTION SOURCE: Point source discharges of contaminants to ground water or
potential discharges of the liquid forms of "extremely hazardous substances",
which are stored in containers in excess of "applicable threshold planning
quantities" as specified in SARA title III (SARA title III is the superfund
amendment and reauthorization act section found in 40 CFR 300 through 302).
Examples of possible pollution sources include, but are not limited to, the
following: storage facilities that store the liquid forms of extremely
hazardous substances, septic tanks, drain fields, class V underground injection
wells, landfills, open dumps, land filling of sludge and septage, manure piles,
salt piles, pit privies, and animal feeding operations with more than ten (10)
animal units. The following clarify the definition of pollution sources:
   A.   Animal Feeding Operation: A lot or facility where the following
conditions are met: Animals have been or will be stabled or confined and fed or
maintained for a total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month
period, and crops, vegetation forage growth, or postharvest residues are not
sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
Two (2) or more animal feeding operations under common ownership are considered
to be a single feeding operation if they adjoin each other, if they use a
common area, or if they use a common system for the disposal of wastes.
   B.   Animal Unit: A unit of measurement for any animal feeding operation
calculated by adding the following numbers: the number of slaughter and feeder
cattle multiplied by 1.0, plus the number of mature dairy cattle multiplied by
1.4, plus the number of swine weighing over fifty five (55) pounds multiplied
by 0.4, plus the number of sheep multiplied by 0.1, plus the number of horses
multiplied by 2.0.
   C.   Extremely Hazardous Substances: Those substances which are identified
in 40 CFR 302.
POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE: Any facility or site which employs an activity
or procedure which may potentially contaminate ground water. A pollution source
is also a "potential contamination source".
PRIMARY RECHARGE AREA: The areas depicted on exhibit 1, attached to ordinance
2000-02 and on file in the city recorder's office.
PROTECTION ZONE: The delineation zones of the drinking water source protection
zone, as summarized in subsections
8-2-5A and
8-2-5B of this chapter.
REGULATED SUBSTANCES: Substances (including degradation and interaction
products) which because of quantity, concentration or physical, chemical
(including ignitability, corrosivity, reactiveness and toxicity), infectious
characteristics, radiomutagenicity, carcinogenicity, teratogenicity,
bioaccumulative effect, persistence (nondegradability) in nature, or any other
characteristics relevant to a particular material that may cause significant
harm to human health and/or environment (including surface and ground water,
plants and animals).
REGULATORY AGENCY: Any governmental agency with jurisdiction over "hazardous
waste", as defined in this section.
RESIDENTIAL ACTIVITY: Any building or structure, or portion thereof, that is
designed for or used for residential purposes and any activity involving the
use or occupancy of a lot for residential purposes. "Residential activity"
shall include those customary and accessory residential activities associated
with the principal permitted use of a lot for residential purposes as set out
in the zoning ordinance of the city.
SARA TITLE III: The superfund amendment and reauthorization act section found
in 40 CFR 300 through 302, pertaining to emergency response and right to know.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible
wastes, or nonhazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover
thereon.
SECONDARY CONTAINMENT: Any system that is used to provide release detection and
release prevention, such as trays under containers, floor curbing or other
systems designed to hold materials or liquids that may discharge from
containers holding regulated substances. Examples include a double walled tank,
a double walled integral piping system, or a single walled tank or integral
piping system that is protected by an enclosed concrete vault, liner, or an
impervious containment area.
SECONDARY RECHARGE AREA: The areas depicted on exhibit 1, attached to ordinance
2000-02 and on file in the city recorder's office.
SEPTIC HOLDING TANK: A watertight receptacle, used to contain septic waste, the
contents of which are extillated and disposed of at a waste disposal facility.
SEPTIC TANK SYSTEM: A generally watertight receptacle connected to a drain
field that allows liquid from the tank to enter the soil. The system is
constructed to promote separation of solid and liquid components of domestic
wastewater, to provide decomposition of organic matter, to store solids, and to
allow clarified liquid to discharge for further treatment and disposal in a
soil absorption system.
SLUDGE OR BIOSOLIDS: The solids separated from wastewater during the wastewater
treatment process.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY: Any solid waste management facility which is the
final resting place for solid waste, including landfills and incineration
facilities that produce ash from the process of incinerating solid waste.
SOLID WASTE TRANSFER FACILITY: A site, the primary purpose of which is to store
or hold solid waste for transport to a processing or disposal facility. It does
not include green boxes, compactor units, permanent dumpsters, and other
containers from which such wastes are transported to a landfill or other solid
waste management facility.
SPRING: The ground surface outlet of a natural underground spring, including
spring collection and control boxes, valves, piping and other attachments.
TRAVEL TIME CONTOUR: The locus of points that form a line of any configuration
in space from which ground water particles on that line theoretically take an
equal amount of time to reach a given destination, such as a well, well field
or spring.
UAC: The Utah administrative code.
USGS: The United States geological survey.
WELL: Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven, dug,
jetted, or otherwise constructed when the intended use of such excavation is
for the location, acquisition, development or artificial recharge of ground
water.
WELL FIELD: An area of land which contains one or more drinking water supply
wells. (1991 Code § 13.12.030, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
8-2-5: EXTENT AND DESIGNATION OF RECHARGE AREAS AND PROTECTION ZONES; MAP:
   A.   Recharge Area And Protection Zone Map: The extent of the recharge areas
and the protection zones may be seen on the recharge area and protection zone
map, exhibit 1, attached to ordinance 2000-02. The recharge area and protection
zone map is incorporated and made a part of this chapter by reference. This map
shall be on file in the city recorder's office and shall be maintained by the
city manager and city recorder.
   B.   Designation Of Recharge Areas And Protection Zones:
      1.   The following recharge areas and protection zones are hereby
designated within the city:
         a.   Primary recharge, as determined by the city;
         b.   Secondary recharge, as determined by the city;
         c.   Protection zone 1 shall be the area within a one hundred foot
(100') radius from the well or spring, or outside margins of the collection
area;
         d.   Protection zone 2 shall be the area within a two hundred fifty
(250) day ground water TOT to the margin of the collection area, the boundary
of the aquifer which supplies water to the ground water source (well or
spring), or the ground water divide, whichever is closer;
         e.   Protection zone 3 shall be the area within a three (3) year TOT
to the margins of the collection area, the boundary of the aquifer which
supplies water to the ground water source (well or spring), or the ground water
divide, whichever is closer;
         f.   Protection zone 4 shall be the area within a fifteen (15) year
TOT to the margin of the collection area, the boundary of the aquifer which
supplies water to the ground water source (well or spring), or the ground water
divide, whichever is closer.
      2.   In determining the location of properties and facilities within the
areas and zones depicted on the drinking water source protection maps, the
following rules shall apply:
         a.   Property located wholly or partially in a recharge area or a
protection zone on the overlay map shall be governed by the restrictions
applicable to that recharge area or protection zone.
         b.   Properties located within more than one recharge area or
protection zone as shown on the overlay map shall be governed by the
restrictions applicable to the most restrictive protection zone.
   C.   Review Of Recharge Area Protection Zone Map: The recharge area and
protection zone map shall be reviewed at least one time every five (5) years,
or more frequently if determined appropriate by the city. Failure to conduct
this review shall not affect the validity of the existing approved maps. The
basis for updating the maps may include, but is not limited to, the following:
      1.   Changes in technical or scientific knowledge in the areas of
geohydrology, hydraulics and geology;
      2.   Changes in well field configuration;
      3.   Changes in pumping rates for the well field;
      4.   Development of new wells, well fields and/or springs;
      5.   Changes in water quality. (1991 Code § 13.12.040, as amended)
8-2-6: PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED USES:
   A.   Releases: No person shall discharge, or permit the discharge of, any
regulated substances or petroleum products, whether treated or untreated, to
soils, air, ground water or surface water in any recharge area or protection
zone, that may have a deleterious effect upon the ground water in the city,
unless the release is in compliance with federal, state and local regulations.
   B.   Review Of Development Plans: All development plans that lie within the
primary recharge area and secondary recharge area, zones 1, 2, 3, and 4, shall
be reviewed by the planning commission and city council. Any development that
will result in a loss of the beneficial use of ground water or that may have an
adverse or negative effect upon local ground water quality shall be rejected.
Plans that are rejected may be revised by the developer and resubmitted to the
city for subsequent review by a registered geologist. Developments that do not
lie within either the primary or secondary recharge area and/or zones 1, 2, 3
and 4, may proceed with the development plan processing requirements of the
city. The city shall be reimbursed for all expenses they incur in considering
the request.
   C.   Permitted Uses: The following uses shall be allowed within the ground
water protection zones:
      1.   All Zones And Recharge Areas:
         a.   Uses established before the effective date hereof, and used
continuously and in the same manner thereafter, which uses may continue,
subject to all of this chapter, provided any such use is not judged by any
court of competent jurisdiction to be a nuisance under the provisions of
federal, state or local laws or regulations;
         b.   Use of single- or multiple-family residential dwellings,
commercial or institutional uses established on or after the effective date
hereof, connected to a sanitary sewer system;
         c.   Uses incidental and accessory to the uses set forth in
subsections C1a and C1b of this section.
      2.   Zone 4:
         a.   The tilling of the soil and the raising of crops, provided
fertilizing and the use of pesticides is accomplished within federal, state and
local guidelines;
         b.   The pasturing of livestock, provided all forage is raised on the
pastured area;
         c.   Uses incidental and accessory to the uses set forth in
subsections C2a and C2b of this section.
   D.   Prohibited Uses: Except uses established before the effective date
hereof, and used continuously and in the same manner thereafter, which uses may
continue, on or after the effective date hereof, the following uses or
conditions shall be and hereby are prohibited within ground water protection
zones and recharge areas, regardless of whether such uses or conditions may
otherwise be included as part of a use allowed under this chapter:
      1.   Zones 1 And 2, And Primary Recharge Areas:
         a.   Sanitary sewer lines within one hundred fifty feet (150') of a
wellhead or spring collection area, unless it meets all federal, state and city
regulations and requirements;
         b.   Underground storage tanks;
         c.   Stormwater infiltration structures;
         d.   Any "pollution source", as defined in section
8-2-4 of this chapter, or in the Utah administrative code section R309-113;
         e.   Use of fertilizer, unless prior written approval by city.
      2.   Zones 1, 2, And 3, And Primary Recharge Areas: Agriculture
industries, including, but not limited to, intensive feeding operations, such
as feed lots, dairies, fur breeding operations, poultry farms, etc.
      3.   All Zones:
         a.   Surface use, storage or dumping of hazardous waste or material,
expressly including industrial or commercial uses of agricultural pesticides
(except when such pesticides are used in farming applications within strict
compliance of the manufacturer's recommendations of use, subject to approval
and/or inspections by local officials);
         b.   Sanitary landfills;
         c.   Hazardous waste or material disposal;
         d.   Septic tanks/drain field systems. (1991 Code § 13.12.050, as
amended)
8-2-7: MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Toxic, Hazardous And Other Materials Handling Regulations:
      1.   The general classes to be regulated under this chapter shall be
those set forth in section
8-2-15 of this chapter, generic regulated substances list. The regulated
substances shall include those set forth in the most current lists, as amended
from time to time, entitled identification and listing of hazardous materials
(40 CFR part 261, subpart D) and list of extremely hazardous substances (40 CFR
part 355, appendix A and B) and which are in a form that they are, all or in
part, capable of entering the ground water.
      2.   The use and storage of regulated substances in designated protection
zones and recharge areas shall be allowed; provided, that the quantities of
these substances do not exceed the "reportable quantity" for each regulated
substance, as designated in 40 CFR 302 (pursuant to section 311 of the clean
water act). An applicant may be exempted from the provisions of this section;
provided, that he or she demonstrates to the department and to the Utah
division of drinking water quality that the regulated substances pose no hazard
to ground water.
   B.   Storage Containers:
      1.   All regulated substances shall be stored in suitable containers to
reduce the chance for the substances to be accidentally introduced into the
environment. These storage containers shall be product tight and, except where
provided elsewhere in this chapter, shall be provided with a means to control
spillage (primary containment) and to contain or drain off spillage and fire
protection water discharged in the storage area (secondary containment).
      2.   Storage containers which are stored outside must be covered or
mounted to prevent the accumulation of rain or other water on the top of the
container, or the degradation of the top, sides or bottom of the container, in
a manner that would lead to the reduction of the integrity of the container.
Defective storage containers shall be removed from service for repair or
disposal in accordance with local, state and federal standards.
   C.   Secondary Containment:
      1.   Where secondary containment is required, it shall be constructed of
a material of sufficient structural integrity and composition to contain the
required capacity of liquids and not be structurally weakened as a result of
contact with the discharge of the regulated substance to be contained. The
material shall be free of cracks, joints, gaps or other imperfections which
would allow leakage through the containment material.
      2.   The secondary containment system shall have sufficient capacity to
contain: a) ten percent (10%) of the volume of all containers and one hundred
percent (100%) of the volume of the largest single container, whichever is
greater; plus b) the design flow rate of the automatic fire extinguishing
system (for 20 minutes) for the area or room in which the storage is located.
If the storage area and/or containment area are open to rainfall, the secondary
containment system must also accommodate the volume of a twenty four (24) hour
rainfall, as determined by a 25-year storm frequency. Liquid that accumulates
in the secondary containment system shall be removed in as timely a manner as
necessary to prevent overflow of the system. Nonhazardous liquids may be
drained in accordance with applicable local, state and federal regulations. If
the collected material is a hazardous waste under title 40, part 261 of the
code of federal regulations, it must be managed as a hazardous waste in
accordance with all applicable requirements of parts 262 through 266 of that
regulation.
      3.   Vacuum suction devices, absorbent scavenger materials or other
devices approved by the department, shall be present on site or available to
facilitate the removal or further containment of spilled regulated substances.
Devices or materials shall be available in sufficient magnitude so as to at
least control and collect the total quantity of regulated substances that the
containment system is designed to contain. Emergency containers shall be
present and of such capacity as to hold the total quantity of regulated
substances, plus absorbent material.
   D.   Regulated Substances Emergency Management Plan: An emergency plan shall
be prepared and filed with the city manager, the fire department, the police
department and the public utilities department, indicating the procedures that
will be followed in the event of the release of a regulated substance so as to
control and collect all such spilled material in such a manner as to prevent it
from discharging into any storm or sanitary drains or the ground. Facilities
which have had, or appear to have had, unauthorized discharges to soil or
ground water shall be required by the department to submit a regulated
substances management plan for the facility. The written plan will be used to
demonstrate to the department that the facility owner or operator understands
the procedures and has the proper equipment to handle regulated substances
within the guidelines of this chapter. The plan should not be implemented
without the approval of the department.
   E.   Reporting Of Spills: Any spill of a regulated substance in excess of
the nonaggregate quantity thresholds established by the list of hazardous waste
(40 CFR part 261, subpart D) 40 CFR appendix VIII, hazardous constituents and
EPA designation reportable quantities and notification requirements for
hazardous substances under CERCLA (40 CFR 302, effective July 3, 1986), shall
be reported by telephone to the city and designated water utility within one
hour of discovery of the spill. Cleanup shall commence immediately upon
discovery of the spill. A full written report shall be submitted to the city
within seven (7) days of discovery of the spill.
   F.   Best Management Practices: Under the provisions of this chapter, all
potential contamination sources within the city boundaries, shall incorporate
and utilize best management practices (BMPs) in their operations. BMPs that
reduce the potential for spills and leaks at a site to occur and enter ground
water shall be construed within the context of this chapter, to include, but
not be limited to, structural and nonstructural practices, conservation
practices, and operation and maintenance procedures as specified by the Utah
department of drinking water quality and the U.S. environmental protection
agency.
   G.   Underground Storage Tanks (USTs):
      1.   Installation of any new underground storage tanks used to store
regulated substances for either residential or nonresidential activities in
recharge areas and protection zones designated under sections
8-2-5 and
8-2-6 of this chapter, shall require a secondary containment system for the
tank and associated underground piping, and an automatic leak detection system.
      2.   A permit from division of environmental remediation and response
shall be required for the removal or closure of USTs. The permit shall require
that leaking tanks be pumped dry and removed from the ground by a state
licensed company. If removal of the UST is not feasible, the lines shall be
disconnected and capped and the tank shall be filled with an inert substance
such as washed sand.
      3.   Best management practices implementation is required for all
underground storage tanks.
   H.   Septic Tank Systems:
      1.   No person shall place, maintain or operate on site sewage disposal
from a septic tank within the primary recharge area, zone 1, zone 2, or within
three hundred feet (300') in which a public sewer is laid. Septic systems in
zones 3 and 4 shall comply with the Utah state department of healthcare of
waste disposal regulations, part IV and part V.
      2.   Nonresidential activities which have septic tank systems shall have
installed a four inch (4") diameter vertical pipe with a locked cap or locked
top in the top of the septic tank. This monitoring pipe shall be located in a
manner which will permit ready access by department personnel to extract
representative samples to check for improper/unauthorized disposal of regulated
substances.
      3.   A septic holding tank that does not discharge into the soil would be
preferred. The contents of a septic holding tank are removed, and can be
treated or disposed of at an appropriate facility.
   I.   Sewage Collection, Transmission And Disposal:
      1.   No person shall discharge treated or untreated sewage in any area
not specifically designated for that purpose by the department. The owner or
operators of any wastewater treatment plant, sanitary sewer, force main,
gravity sewer or lateral shall notify the department within twenty four (24)
hours of discovering a break that may or does result in the leakage of sewage.
Emergency telephone numbers will be prominently displayed on all sewage lift
stations within zones 1, 2, 3, and 4, and the primary recharging area.
      2.   All leaking sewage collection and transmission pipes shall be
repaired or replaced. New sewage collection and transmission pipes shall be
installed according to acceptable construction standards and shall have routine
inspections during and after construction.
      3.   No person shall place, maintain or operate a wastewater treatment
plant within zones 1 or 2, and/or the primary recharge area.
   J.   General Stormwater Management:
      1.   All future stormwater management systems to be constructed and
implemented for facilities within the protection zones and recharge areas shall
be permitted in accordance with applicable local, state and federal laws and
regulations.
      2.   The discharge of stormwater into drainage wells or open sinkholes
shall be prohibited without some form of treatment. This treatment shall be
applied to at least the first one-half inch (1/2") of runoff from the area
tributary to the well or open sinkhole.
3. The clean water and stormwater regulations require municipalities and
industries to identify, monitor and limit urban runoff that may enter rivers,
thus potentially affecting ground water quality.
K. Landfills: Expansion or creation of landfills is prohibited in the primary
recharge area, the secondary recharge area, and zones 1, 2, 3 and 4.
L. Environmental Quality Monitoring: Facilities which have had, or appear to
have had, unauthorized releases to soil or ground water shall be required by
the department to monitor soil and ground water in and adjacent to the
facility. At the request of the department, the facility will submit a
monitoring plan for department review. The plan shall be implemented with the
approval of the department. Facilities that undergo closure may be required to
monitor soil and ground water in and adjacent to the facility subject to
closure. All costs associated with the closing and monitoring of the site will
be paid for by the operator of the facility. (1991 Code § 13.12.060, as
amended)
8-2-8: EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
Exclusions and exemptions shall not pertain to zones 1 and 2 and within one
hundred feet (100') from the well field and in the primary recharge areas.
   A.   Exclusions: The following substances are not subject to the provisions
of this chapter; provided, that these substances are handled, stored and
disposed of in a manner that does not result in an unauthorized release or
cause contamination of the ground water:
      1.   Required substances stored at residences that do not exceed ten (10)
pounds or five (5) gallons and used for personal, family or household purposes;
      2.   Commercial products limited to use at the site solely for office or
janitorial purposes, when stored in total quantities of less than ten (10)
pounds, or five (5) gallons;
      3.   Prepackaged consumer products available through retail sale to
individuals for personal, family or household use, that are properly stored;
      4.   Water based latex paint;
      5.   Fertilizers and treated seed (except as noted in this chapter);
      6.   Required substances stored for residential uses for pesticide
products and materials intended for use in weed abatement, pest control,
erosion control, soil amendment or similar applications when applied in
accordance with manufacturer's instructions, label directions and nationally
recognized standards;
      7.   Compressed gases;
      8.   Substances or mixtures which may pose a hazard, but are labeled
pursuant to the federal food, drug and cosmetic act.
   B.   Continuous Transit: The transportation of any regulated substance
through any protection zone or recharge area shall be allowed; provided, that
the transporting vehicle is in continuous transit.
   C.   Vehicular And Lawn Maintenance Fuel And Lubricant Use: The use of any
petroleum product solely as an operational fuel in the vehicle or lawn
maintenance fuel tank or as a lubricant in such a vehicle shall be exempt from
the provisions of this chapter. These spent products shall be properly disposed
of in compliance with applicable federal, state and local regulations. (1991
Code § 13.12.070, as amended)
8-2-9: INSPECTIONS; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Inspections: The health department shall be granted the right, under
this chapter, to enforce the provisions of this chapter for the city. An
authorized officer of the city or the Bear River health department has the
right to conduct inspections of facilities to determine compliance with this
chapter. The authorized officer or the Bear River health department shall
inform the department and other city entities, as deemed appropriate, of the
results of the inspection and whether violations were noted. The authorized
officer of the city and/or Bear River health department shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter
is a violation. If the facility is not complying with the requirements of this
chapter, penalties (e.g., citations of noncompliance, orders to cease
operations or administrative penalties) may be assessed. This chapter regulates
businesses within the protection zones and primary and secondary recharge areas
within the city.
   B.   Content Of Notice Of Violation: Whenever it is determined that there is
a violation of this chapter or the regulations promulgated pursuant hereto, the
notice of violation shall:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Be dated and signed by the authorized city agent that made the
inspection or determined the violation;
      3.   Specify the violation or violations;
      4.   Provide a specific date that the violations will be corrected by;
      5.   State that if the violation is not corrected by a specific date a
hearing may be requested before the department.
   C.   Written Warning: If a potential contaminant source (PCS) is out of
compliance with the provisions of the chapter, but does not pose an immediate
threat to public health, then a written warning of violation may be issued
within thirty (30) days. The person has the opportunity to show a good faith
effort to correct an unintentional violation within a reasonable amount of
time. A cease and desist order shall be issued by the department if the PCS is
found not to employ BMPs and there is an immediate threat to public health and
safety or if the violation is not corrected within the time frame specified in
a written warning previously issued to the PCS. In the event that the PCS fails
to comply with a cease and desist order within the specified time period, the
department has the authority to file a request for the department to initiate
proceedings for issuance of penalties and other relief as necessary.
   D.   Service Of Notice: Any PCS or person found in violation of any
provisions of this chapter will be served with a written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time frame for compliance.
   E.   Spills, Leaks And Discharges: In the event of a spill, leak or
discharge of a regulated substance, if the department deems the activity to
pose a real and present danger of contaminating surface or ground water which
would normally enter the public water supply, the department has the authority
under this chapter to cause cessation of such activity or use of regulated
substance, require administrative controls to mitigate such danger and/or cause
the provision of pollution control and abatement activities. A facility is in
violation of this chapter if use of regulated substances in a protection zone
or primary or secondary recharge area exceeds twenty (20) gallons or one
hundred sixty (160) pounds at any time. The total use of regulated substances
may not exceed fifty (50) gallons or four hundred (400) pounds in any twelve
(12) month period. (1991 Code § 13.12.080, as amended)
   F.   Penalty: Violations of the provisions of this chapter constitute a
class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code § 13.12.080, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
8-2-10: APPEALS:
   A.   Written Warning: Persons cited under the enforcement provisions of
section
8-2-9 of this chapter shall be afforded a process for appealing the ruling of
the department. If the appeal pertains to a written warning of violation
requesting the PCS to correct an unintentional violation in a reasonable amount
of time, the PCS can submit to the department a written statement demonstrating
compliance or explaining a process for coming into compliance. This written
response is required no later than thirty (30) days from the date of issuance
of the warning.
   B.   Cease And Desist Order: If the appeal pertains to a cease and desist
order issued by the department, the PCS can submit a written appeal response no
later than ten (10) days from the date of issuance of the order. The written
appeal shall contain:
      1.   Documentation of compliance; or
      2.   Response to specific violations cited in the cease and desist order
and the remedial actions planned to bring the facility into compliance; and
      3.   Schedule for compliance.
   C.   Review And Response: Upon receipt of the written appeal, the department
shall be required to review the appeal within ten (10) days of its receipt and
respond to the PCS. If the department determines that the written response from
the PCS is adequate and noncompliance issues are addressed, the PCS will be
notified by mail and no further action is required. If the department
determines that the appeals response is inadequate, the PCS may request a
hearing before the department. This hearing shall be held within thirty (30)
days of receiving the cease and desist order which shall remain in effect until
the hearing is conducted. (1991 Code § 13.12.080, as amended)
8-2-11: DISPUTES:
Disputes arising from the delineation of DWSP zones and primary and secondary
recharge areas shall be directed to the drinking water source protection review
committee to review specific detailed delineation maps showing the boundaries.
(1991 Code § 13.12.090, as amended)
8-2-12: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
other restrictions, including land use codes or development regulations,
conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the most stringent restrictions shall
prevail. (1991 Code § 13.12.090, as amended)
8-2-13: REVIEW OF PROVISIONS:
The city drinking water source protection review committee shall review the
provisions of this chapter at least once every five (5) years, or more
frequently if determined appropriate by the city, to determine its
applicability and may incorporate changes as deemed appropriate. (1991 Code §
13.12.090, as amended)
8-2-14: LIABILITY:
Any person subject to regulation under this chapter shall be liable with
respect to regulated substances emanating on or from the person's property for
all cost of removal or remedial action incurred by the city and/or Bear River
health department, and for damages for injury to, destruction of, or loss of,
natural resources, including the reasonable cost of assessing such injury,
destruction, or loss from the release or threatened release of a "regulated
substance", as defined by section
8-2-4 of this chapter. Such removal or remedial action by the city and/or Bear
River health department may include, but is not limited to, the prevention of
further contamination of ground water, monitoring, containment and clean up, or
disposal of regulated substances resulting from spilling, leaking, pumping,
pouring, emitting or dumping of any regulated substance or material which
creates, or is expected to create, an emergency hazardous situation. (1991 Code
§ 13.12.100, as amended)
8-2-15: GENERIC REGULATED SUBSTANCE LIST:
Acid and basic cleaning solutions.
Animal dips.
Antifreeze and coolants.
Arsenic and arsenic components.
Battery acids.
Bleaches and peroxide.
Brake and transmission fluid.
Brine solution.
Casting and foundry chemicals.
Caulking agents and sealants.
Cleaning solvents.
Corrosion and rust preventatives.
Cutting fluids.
Degreasing solvents.
Disinfectants.
Dyes.
Electroplating solutions.
Engraving and etching solutions.
Explosives.
Fertilizers.
Fire extinguishing chemicals.
Food processing wasters.
Formaldehyde.
Fuels and additives.
Glues, adhesives and resins.
Greases.
Hydraulic fluid.
Indicators.
Industrial and commercial janitorial supplies.
Industrial sludges and stillbottoms.
Inks, printing, and photocopying chemicals.
Laboratory chemicals.
Liquid storage batteries.
Medical, pharmaceutical, dental, veterinary and hospital solutions.
Mercury and mercury compounds.
Metal finishing solutions.
Oils.
Painting solvents.
Paints, primers, thinners, dyes, stains, wood preservatives, varnishing and
cleaning compounds.
Pesticides and herbicides.
Photo development chemicals.
Plastic resins, plasticizers and catalysts.
Poisons.
Polishes.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs).
Pool chemicals.
Processed dust and particulates.
Radioactive sources.
Reagents and standards.
Refrigerants.
Roofing chemicals and sealers.
Sanitizers, disinfectants, bactericides and algaecides.
Soaps, detergents and surfactants.
Solders and fluxes.
Stripping compounds.
Tanning industry chemicals.
Transformer and capacitor oils and fluids.
Wastewater.
Water and wastewater treatment chemicals. (1991 Code § 13.12.120, as amended)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SERVICE SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-3-3: Failure To Connect
8-3-4: Private Wastewater Disposal
8-3-5: Permit Required
8-3-6: Application For Permit
8-3-7: Fees, Rates And Charges; Payments
8-3-8: Sanitary Sewer, Building Sewer And Connection Regulations
8-3-9: Annual Review Of Operational Costs
8-3-10: Discharge Regulations
8-3-11: Damage Or Destruction Of Facilities Prohibited
8-3-12: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-3-13: Violations; Penalty
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
ADDENDUM: The document entitled "Calculations Of User Fees; Sewer Use Charge
System". The addendum is incorporated in this chapter and on file in the city
office.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called house connection.
CESSPOOL: An underground reservoir for liquid waste (as household sewage).
CITY: Wellsville City, Cache County, Utah.
CLASS: A classification of volume of use as described hereinafter.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and stormwater, or
surface water.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
EXTENSION: When a resident or entity requests to connect onto the end of an
existing sewer line, and continues to add additional footage to the sewer
system.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in physical state such that it will separate
by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility. A
wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is properly
pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection system.
GARBAGE: All waste resulting from residences, commercial trades, or businesses
and institutions. Commercial and industrial waste shall be distinct from
domestic or household sanitary wastes.
GOVERNING BODY: The mayor and council members of the city.
HEAVY AND LIGHT COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USERS: Any industrial or commercial
user who discharges waste into the system with a higher than normal biochemical
oxygen demand, or greater than normal total suspended solids.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or business
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
MAY: Is permissive (see definition of Shall).
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
ground water.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7.
PRIVY: A small building having a bench with holes through which the user may
defecate or urinate.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
RESIDENTIAL FLOWS: The calculated average and/or standard flow expected from a
single-family dwelling based on wintertime culinary water usage. A residential
flow volume is normally fifteen thousand (15,000) gallons per month and its
strength is two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) TSS (total
suspended solids) (see definition of Suspended Solids), and two hundred
milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) BOD (biochemical oxygen demand). Rates for
volume and strength of residential flow are as set out in addendum A.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
SEPTIC TANK: A tank in which the solid matter of continuous flowing sewage is
disintegrated by bacteria.
SEWAGE: The spent water of community. The preferred term is "wastewater".
SEWER: A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
SHALL: Is mandatory (see definition of May).
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer
than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty four (24)
hour concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect
the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
STORM DRAIN (SOMETIMES TERMED STORM SEWER): A drain or sewer for conveying
water, ground water, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
SUPERINTENDENT: The city manager of wastewater facilities, and/or of wastewater
treatment works, and/or of water pollution control of the city, or his
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of,
or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering prescribed in "Standard Methods For The
Examination Of Water And Wastewater" and referred to as filterable residue.
SYSTEM: The sewer, wastewater or combined wastewater and stormwater or surface
water facilities of the city.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provide.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes, and dispose of
the effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "water
pollution control plant".
WATERCOURSE: A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water, either
continuously or intermittently. (1991 Code § 13.04.010, as amended; amd. 2009
Code)
8-3-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it is unlawful to construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of wastewater.
   D.   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the
city, or within three hundred feet (300') of the system is required, at the
owner's expense, to install suitable sewer facilities therein, and to connect
such facilities directly with the public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this section, within sixty (60) days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that such sewer is within three hundred feet (300')
of the owner's property line 1 . (1991 Code § 13.04.020, as amended)
   E.   To evidence compliance with the requirements of this section, the city
adopts this penalty and compensatory sanctions, the violation of which shall
constitute a class B misdemeanor. (1991 Code § 13.04.020, as amended; amd. 2009
Code)
      1.   Under the authority of Utah Code Annotated section
10-8-15, as amended, the city exercises a municipality's extraterritorial
jurisdiction to protect its culinary water system and its source from exposure
to underground percolation from any ecological injury, pollution on or
contamination of the watershed or exposure of the system and water polluting
underground perculations influencing the culinary waterworks source, whether
inside or outside the incorporated city. Utah Code Annotated section
10-8-15, as amended, is incorporated as part of this chapter. (1991 Code §
13.04.020, as amended)
      2.   The city, under the authority of Utah Code Annotated section
10-8-38, as amended, declares that all lands (whether inside or outside the
incorporated city) within three hundred feet (300') on either side of, or one
thousand five hundred feet (1,500') above the collection or interceptor line
and the inlet facilities of each and all of the collection, interception and
inlet facilities, or one or any combination of the same (the system), are a
part of the wastewater facilities of the city and the system, and the city
requires that the owner or occupant of any land upon which any structure is
located and on the nearest property line of any kind within three hundred feet
(300') of any lateral, interceptor or collection portion of the system shall
connect to the system, the failure of which shall constitute a public offense
and punishable by law as a class B misdemeanor. Utah Code Annotated section
10-8-38, as amended, is incorporated as part of this chapter. As of December
11, 1996, no dwelling for human occupancy shall be allowed to be built west of
100 East, unless it is on the municipal sewer system, except with the written
approval of the city council and the city engineer. All costs incurred by the
city in considering the request will be reimbursed to the city by the
requester. (1991 Code § 13.04.020, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   F.   Property owners are responsible for all sewage and sewage service lines
until the sewage is in the city sewer main line. (Ord. 2012-03, 4-4-2012)
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1 4-7-3B of this code, section
  8-1E-13 of this title, and subsections
  11-5-7C1 and 11-5-7D of this code for 300 foot connection requirements.
8-3-3: FAILURE TO CONNECT:
It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to fail to connect to the sewer system who
is the owner of any structure whose outermost property line is within three
hundred feet (300') of the sewer system, by a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) for each day of violation and each day of failure to connect
shall be deemed a separate offense. (1991 Code § 13.04.040, as amended; amd.
2009 Code)
8-3-4: PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL:
   A.   When Permitted: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not
available under the provisions of subsection
8-3-2D of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Application: Before commencement of construction of a private
wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain written permission
from the city council, and signed by the city engineer. The application for
such permit shall be made on a form furnished by Bear River health, which the
applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information
as are deemed necessary. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to Bear
River health at the time the application is filed.
   C.   Inspection: Permission to use the system for a private wastewater
disposal system shall not become authorized until the installation is completed
in compliance with the approved plans applicable with all state and local codes
and this chapter. Authorized city employees and employees of Bear River health,
shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction. The
applicant for the permit shall notify Bear River health when the work is ready
for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The
inspection shall be made within forty eight (48) hours of the receipt of notice
by Bear River health.
   D.   Compliance: The type, capacity, location and layout of a private
wastewater disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Utah
state department of environmental quality. No permit shall be issued for any
private wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption
facilities where the area of the lot is less than twelve thousand (12,000)
square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   E.   Connection To Public System: At such time as a public sewer becomes
available to a property served by a private wastewater disposal system, as
provided in subsection
8-3-2D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
within twelve (12) months, in compliance with this chapter, and the private
disposal system shall be disconnected and made inoperable.
   F.   Operation And Maintenance Of Facility: When a public sewer is not
available, the owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the city.
   G.   Additional Requirements May Be Imposed: No statement contained in this
section shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that
may be imposed by the Utah state department of environmental quality. (1991
Code § 13.04.030, as amended)
8-3-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof, without
first obtaining a written permit from the city. (1991 Code § 13.04.040, as
amended)
8-3-6: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Required: In every case, the owner or agent shall make application on a
form obtained from the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by
any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the city manager and public works director.
   B.   Form Of Application:
      1.   The owner of any structure in the city, the property line of which
is within three hundred feet (300') of the sewer line, shall connect to the
sewer system upon an application in the form herein set out. (1991 Code §
13.04.040, as amended)
      2.   Each individual connection to the sewer system shall execute an
application in such form as approved by the city council and on file in the
city office. (1991 Code § 13.04.040, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
8-3-7: FEES, RATES AND CHARGES; PAYMENTS:
   A.   Usage Determination: Usage fees shall be governed by a basic
determinant of the amount of culinary water used at the premises, as measured
by each culinary water meter as follows, based on average usage from October 15
to April 15 each year:
      1.   For residential services, up to fifteen thousand (15,000) gallons
per month;
      2.   Amounts in excess of fifteen thousand (15,000) gallons per month
shall be charged a surcharge based upon the formula set out in addendum A.
   B.   Calculation Of User Fees; Sewer Use Charge System:  Addendum A,
entitled "Calculations Of User Fees; Sewer Use Charge System", is incorporated
by reference and made a part of this chapter and a part of the ordinances of
the city, and its title shall be known and it may be referred to as "Addendum
A, Calculations Of User Fees; Sewer Use Charge System", or merely, addendum A,
in any document, pleading, or proceeding pertaining to the sewer or wastewater
system of the city. References to addendum A shall also be made when there is
ambiguous declaration or statement in this chapter or any ordinance of the
city, and any resolutions or proceedings affecting the city sewer and
wastewater system. The rates for connecting to and use on monthly or any other
basis may be fixed and amended by resolution or ordinance. (1991 Code §
13.04.040, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   C.   Permit And Hookup Fee: A permit and hookup fee of four hundred dollars
($400.00) shall be charged.
   D.   Monthly Rates: Until otherwise provided by resolution or an amending
ordinance, the monthly rates shall be as follows: (1991 Code § 13.04.040, as
amended)
      1. The minimum of twenty four dollars fifty cents ($24.50) per month per
dwelling unit, commercial or industrial user. (Ord. 2015-06, 6-17-2015, eff. 7-
1-2015)
      2. Users in excess of fifteen thousand (15,000) gallons per month: An
overage fee of one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) per one thousand (1,000) gallons
will be charged.
   E.   Operation And Maintenance Costs: The governing body will, to promote
equity in distribution of operation and maintenance costs, and for no other
purpose, establish rates based entirely upon metered winter water usage, and
based on that usage, will be charged that rate for the next twelve (12) months,
effluent strength by or solely upon the basis as defined above, or upon an
equitable combination of any of those so that the costs of operation and
maintenance reflected in rates will be equitably distributed among those based
upon their usage of and benefit received from the system.
   F.   Installation Costs: All costs and expenses incidental to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be associated by the installation of the building sewer.
   G.   Liability For Payment Of Fees And Charges: Irrespective of the
occupant, user, tenant, cotenant, permissive user, or any other person, firm,
partnership, corporation or entity being in possession of the premises to which
a connection is supplied or service made available, the owner of the premises,
according to the records of the Cache County recorder, shall be legally
responsible for the payment of all charges, fees, assessments and any other
payment of all charges, fees, assessments, and any other obligation or
liability of a user. If any delinquent sewer connection, sewer user charge,
repairs, maintenance or any other obligation is imposed against any premises,
property, buildings or structures, the obligation shall be deemed by the city
as a lien upon all of the real property on which any use is made from a sewer
connection. Water service to delinquent property shall be turned off by the
city for failure to pay any and all sewage and wastewater fees, assessments,
charges or liability and will not be turned on again to those premises where a
delinquency occurs unless and until all liabilities to the city for sewer
service are paid in full.
   H.   Interest Charge On Delinquent Or Past Due Connection Fees: The mayor
and city council may, at their discretion and in circumstances that are
equitable, impose interest at the highest legal rate (but not to exceed 11/
2 percent per month) on all past due accounts, either for connection fees, user
charges, maintenance, repair or any other charge which is provided for, imposed
or authorized by this chapter. (1991 Code § 13.04.040, as amended)
8-3-8: SANITARY SEWER, BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Separate Sewer Required: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building.
   B.   Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are examined and tested by the superintendent and
found to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Extensions:
      1.   The cost of any extension of any sewer mainline will be borne
entirely by the individuals or entity to which the service will be provided. On
any paved street, it shall be required to bore under the road for all utility
service lines, which include, but are not limited to, culinary water, sewer,
telephone, natural gas, electrical power and cable television. The city does
not allow the pavement to be cut, then compacted and resurfaced for utility
lines 1 .
      2.   On any extension ("extension" means when an individual or entity
requests to connect onto the existing sewer mainline, and continue to add
additional footage to the sewer system), such individual or entity shall be
required to extend the sewer mainline the entire frontage of the lot or the
entire frontage of the subdivision. All extensions will be completed in
accordance to city specifications.
   D.   Construction Methods: The size, slope, alignment, materials or
construction of all sanitary sewers, including building sewers, and the methods
to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and
backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building
and plumbing codes, or other applicable rules and regulations of the city and
the state. In the absence of these code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
ASTM and WPCF manual of practice no. 9 shall apply.
   E.   Elevation; Exception: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be
brought from the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by
an approved means and discharged to the building sewer. Where such means are
necessary, the owner shall be responsible for all installations, maintenance
and operating costs for their operation.
   F.   Surface Drainage: No person shall make connection of roof downspouts,
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water, to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer, unless such connection is
approved by the city and the state department of environmental quality for
purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   G.   Connection To Comply With Applicable Codes: The connection of the
building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing codes, or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city and the state, or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of nationally recognized publications of which are known as the ASTM and the
WPCF manual of practice no. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and
watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the city before installation.
   H.   Barricades: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(1991 Code § 13.04.040, as amended)
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 7-2-2 and
  7-4-12 of this code, and section
  8-1E-14 of this title.
8-3-9: ANNUAL REVIEW OF OPERATIONAL COSTS:
   A.   The city shall review the total annual cost of operation and
maintenance, long term debt service relating to the wastewater treatment works,
as well as each user's wastewater contribution percentage, not less often than
every year, and will revise the user charge system as necessary to assure
equity of the system established in this chapter and to assure that sufficient
funds are obtained from the city user charge system to:
      1.   Adequately operate and maintain the wastewater treatment works; and
      2.   Cover the debt service. (1991 Code § 13.04.050, as amended)
   B.   The addendum on file in the city office and entitled "Calculations Of
User Fees; Sewer Use Charge System" shall be used for calculating rates. The
addendum shall be used as a formula for calculating rates, fees and charges for
connection use and access to the system. The addendum is adopted and made a
part of this chapter. (1991 Code § 13.04.050, as amended; amd. 2009 Code)
8-3-10: DISCHARGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Unpolluted Waters: No person shall discharge or cause the discharge of
any unpolluted waters such as stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling water to the sewer system.
   B.   Purchase Of Connection Required: No person or entity shall discharge or
cause to be discharged into the public sewer unless they have purchased a
connection onto the sewer system.
   C.   Prohibited Discharges; Liability For Damages:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
         a.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
         b.   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
other wastes, to contaminate or interrupt any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard in or have an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the sewer works;
         c.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the wastewater works; and
         d.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities, such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or
ground by garbage grinders.
      2.   Each user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause damage
to the city treatment works shall be liable to the city for such damage and for
all expenses incurred by the city in repairing those treatment works.
   D.   Limitations: The following described substances, materials, waters or
wastes shall be limited in discharges to the municipal system to concentrations
or quantities which will not harm either the sewers, the sludge of any
municipal system, the wastewater treatment process or equipment, will not have
an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger
lives, public property or constitute a nuisance. The city may set limitations
more severe than the limitations established in the regulations of this
subsection if such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the objectives
of subsections A, B and C of this section. In setting these requirements, the
city will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste
in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent
factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the city are as follows:
      1.   Wastewater having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65o Celsius);
      2.   Wastewater containing more than twenty five milligrams per liter (25
mg/l) of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or products of mineral
oil origin;
      3.   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease;
      4.   Any garbage that has not been "properly shredded", as defined in
section
8-3-1 of this chapter. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers
from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments, or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation
of food in commercial kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises;
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the state for such materials;
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing odor producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the state;
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life of
concentration as may exceed limits established in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
      8.   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both, which constitute a
"slug" as defined in section
8-3-1 of this chapter;
      9.   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
      10.   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   E.   Enforcement Authority Of City: If any water or wastes are discharged,
or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the
substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in subsection C of this
section, and which are determined by the city to have a deleterious effect upon
the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city
may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and/or
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
this section. If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the city and the state department of
environmental quality;
      4.   Require submission of a plot plan of sewers on the user's property
showing sewer and pretreatment facility location;
      5.   Require submission of details of wastewater pretreatment facilities;
      6.   Require details of systems to prevent and control the loss of
materials through spills to the municipal sewer.
   F.   Standards Of Examination: All measurements, tests and analysis of the
characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter
shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods
For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public
Health Association. Sampling methods, location, times, durations and
frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis, subject to approval by
the city.
   G.   Special Agreements And Arrangements: No statement contained in this
section shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment. (1991
Code § 13.04.060, as amended)
8-3-11: DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION OF FACILITIES PROHIBITED:
No persons shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenances or equipment which
is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any persons violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (1991
Code § 13.04.070, as amended)
8-3-12: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Authority To Enter: Duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to discharge to the wastewater collection system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Information Obtained: Duly authorized city employees are authorized to
obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system.
   C.   Interceptors: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts as specified in
subsection
8-3-10D3 of this chapter, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients are introduced into public sewers; except that such interceptors
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All
interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the state plumbing
code, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning
and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captivated material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal which are subject to review by the city. Any removal and hauling of
the collected materials not performed by owner's personnel must be performed by
currently licensed waste disposal firms.
   D.   Maintenance Of Facilities: Where pretreatment or flow equalization
facilities are provided or required for any water or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
his own expense.
   E.   Monitoring Structure: It is required by the city that the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer, other than residential, shall install a
suitable structure, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer, to facilitate observation, sampling, measurements and
recording of the wastes. Such structure shall be accessibly and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the city. The
structure and appurtenances shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and
shall be maintained by the owner so that such is workable, safe and accessible
at all times.
   F.   Determination Of Compliance: The city may require any user of sewer
services to provide information needed to determine compliance with this
chapter. These requirements may include:
      1.   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      2.   Chemical analysis of wastewaters;
      3.   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      4.   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent or
other materials important to sewer control.
   G.   Observance Of Safety: While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in this chapter, duly authorized employees of the city
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees, and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company growing out of
the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence
or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions.
   H.   Private Properties With Easements: Duly authorized employees of the
city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within such easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on such
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved. (1991 Code §
13.04.090, as amended)
8-3-13: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. (1991 Code § 13.04.090, as
amended)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in subsection A of this section, shall be guilty of a class
B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (1991 Code § 13.04.090, as
amended; amd. 2009 Code)
   C.   Liability: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall become liable to the city for the expense, loss or damage occasioned by
the city by reason of such violation. (1991 Code § 13.04.090, as amended)
CHAPTER 4
STORMWATER DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
8-4-1: Created; Purpose
8-4-2: Enterprise Fund
8-4-3: Facilities And Assets
8-4-4: Administration
8-4-5: Powers And Duties
8-4-1: CREATED; PURPOSE:
There is hereby created a department of the city known as the stormwater
department (SWD), which shall have general supervision of the city stormwater
system. (Ord. 2007-13, 11-7-2007)
8-4-2: ENTERPRISE FUND:
The stormwater department is established as an enterprise fund and shall
function independent of departments included in the general fund. The SWD shall
have the same relationship to the city as other city utilities. All SWD service
charges and appurtenant revenues shall be deposited in the SWD enterprise fund;
however, the SWD may pay other city funds for services and expenses directly
attributable to the SWD. The enterprise fund shall be operated according to
state law and city policy. (Ord. 2007-13, 11-7-2007)
8-4-3: FACILITIES AND ASSETS:
Upon creation of the utility, all of the city stormwater facilities and assets
(other than streets, curb and gutters) shall be transferred to the SWD in
consideration for the SWD's agreement to take primary responsibility for the
maintenance and operation of the city stormwater system. (Ord. 2007-13, 11-7-
2007)
8-4-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The SWD shall be administered by the city public works under direct supervision
of the city manager. (Ord. 2007-13, 11-7-2007)
8-4-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city manager and public works personnel shall administer and enforce all of
the requirements of chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 2007-13, 11-7-2007)
CHAPTER 5
STORMWATER DRAINAGE 1
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose
8-5-2: Definitions
8-5-3: Application
8-5-4: Responsibility Of Administration
8-5-5: Ultimate Responsibility
8-5-6: Policies
8-5-7: Stormwater Utility Fee
8-5-8: Billing
8-5-9: Prohibitions
8-5-10: Illegal Discharges And Exemptions
8-5-11: Notice Of Intent (NOI); Exemptions
8-5-12: Stormwater Management Concept Plan
8-5-13: Landscaping Plans Required
8-5-14: Maintenance Agreements
8-5-15: Inspection
8-5-16: Postconstruction
8-5-17: Enforcement
8-5-18: Stormwater Inspector
8-5-19: Compliance And Reinspection
8-5-20: Violation And Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  11-5-5 of this code.
8-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
city residents by maintaining and improving the city stormwater system;
managing and controlling stormwater runoff, protecting public and private
property from damage caused by uncontrolled stormwater runoff or by pollutants
conveyed by stormwater runoff, and preventing polluted water from entering the
city stormwater system and other receiving waters to the maximum extent
practicable as required by federal and state law. The principal objectives of
this chapter are:
   A.   To regulate the discharge of pollutants into the municipal stormwater
system;
   B.   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the system;
   C.   To guide, regulate and control the design, construction, use and
maintenance of any development or other activity that results in the movement
of soil within the city;
   D.   To minimize increases in nonpoint source pollution caused by stormwater
runoff from construction sites, which would otherwise degrade local water
quality;
   E.   To reduce stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion and
nonpoint source pollution, wherever possible, through stormwater management
controls and to ensure that these management controls are properly maintained
and pose no threat to public safety;
   F.   To establish a viable and fair method of financing the construction,
operation and maintenance of the stormwater system;
   G.   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter; and
   H.   To clarify permitting processes and identify responsibility to obtain
certain permits required by the environmental protection agency (EPA), the
state department of environmental quality (DEQ) and the city. (Ord. 2007-14,
11-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following shall mean:
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Includes schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, design standards and other
management practices to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly
or indirectly into the waters of the state or waters of the United States, BMPs
also include treatment requirements, operating procedures, educational
activities and practices to control plant site runoff spillage or leaks, sludge
or waste disposal, or drainage from raw material storage.
BUILDING PERMIT: Permits for alteration or construction (except for fences and
detached accessory buildings as exempted by city code) issued pursuant to the
provisions of title 9, chapter 1 of this code.
CONVEYANCE SYSTEM: Any channel or pipe for collecting or directing the flow of
stormwater.
CULVERT: A covered channel or large diameter pipe that conducts or directs
water flow below the ground surface.
DEGRADATION:
   A.   Biological Or Chemical: The breakdown of chemical compounds into
simpler substances, usually less harmful than the original compound, as with
the degradation of a persistent pesticide.
   B.   Geological: Wearing down by erosion.
   C.   Water: The lowering of the water quality of a watercourse by an
increase in the amount of pollutant.
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY (DEQ): The state of Utah department of
environmental quality.
DISCHARGE: The release of stormwater or other substance from a conveyance
system or storage container.
DRAINAGE: The release of stormwater or other substance from a conveyance system
or storage container.
EQUIVALENT SERVICE UNIT (ESU): The approximate size of impervious surface area
on an average residential lot.
EROSION: The wearing away of land surface by wind or water. Erosion occurs
naturally from weather or runoff but can be intensified by land clearing
practices related to farming, residential or industrial development, road
building or timber cutting.
EXCAVATION PERMIT: Permit issued authorizing excavation within Wellsville City
pursuant to the provisions and regulations found in title 7, chapter 2 of this
code.
FIELD DRAIN: Refers to an underground drainage system installed to drain
agricultural fields and typically ends in an irrigation tail water ditch.
FILL: A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
GRADING: The cutting and/or filling of the land surface to a desired slope or
elevation.
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the
stormwater system, except discharges from firefighting activities and other
discharges exempted by this chapter.
ILLICIT CONNECTION: Any physical connection to the Wellsville City stormwater
system allowing discharge of nonstormwater, which has not been permitted by
this chapter.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A surface which prevents or retards the penetration of
water into the ground, including, but not limited to, roofs, sidewalks, patios,
driveways, parking lots, concrete and asphalt paving, and oiled, macadam or
other surfaces which similarly impede the natural infiltration of stormwater.
INFILTRATION: The downward movement of water from the surface to the subsoil.
The infiltration capacity is expressed in terms of inches per hour.
INGRESS/EGRESS: The points of access to and from a property.
INLET: An entrance into a ditch, culvert or other conveyance structure.
LAND DRAIN: Refers to an underground drainage system installed during the
development of a subdivision that is installed within the public right of way
and designed to meet city standards and is approved by the city engineer to
reduce or limit ground water travel in the vicinity of the drains.
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): See Stormwater System.
NONPOINT SOURCE: Pollution caused by diffuse sources (not a single location
such as a pipe), such as agricultural or urban runoff.
NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI): Permit issued by the state DEQ for stormwater
discharges associated with construction activities under the UPDES General
Permits for Construction Activities.
OFF SITE: Any area lying upstream of the site that drains onto the site and any
area lying downstream of the site to which the site drains.
ON SITE: The entire property that includes the proposed development.
OUTFALL: The point, location or structure where wastewater or drainage
discharges from a stormwater pipe, ditch or other conveyance to a receiving
body of water.
PLAT: A map or representation of a subdivision showing the division of a tract
or parcel of land into lots, blocks, streets or other divisions and
dedications.
POINT SOURCE: Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, including, but
not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete
fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding operation or
vessel from which pollutants are or may be discharged.
POLLUTANT: Generally any substance introduced into the environment that
adversely affects the usefulness of a resource. "Pollutants" may include, but
are not limited to: paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and other automotive
fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish,
garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects and accumulations so
that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides,
herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal
coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes
and residues resulting from the construction of a building or structure; and
noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
RECEIVING WATERS: Bodies of water or surface water systems receiving water from
upstream constructed (or natural) systems.
RIPARIAN: A relatively narrow strip of land that borders a stream or river.
RUNOFF: That part of precipitation, snowmelt or irrigation water that runs off
the land into streams or other surface water with the potential to carry
pollutants from the air and land into the receiving waters.
SEDIMENTATION: The process of depositing soil particles, clays, sands or other
sediments that were picked up by runoff.
SOURCE CONTROL: A practice or structural measure to prevent pollutants from
entering stormwater runoff or other environmental media.
STABILIZATION: The proper placing, grading and/or covering of soil, rock or
earth to ensure its resistance to erosion, sliding or other movement.
STORM DRAIN: An opening leading to an underground pipe or open ditch for
carrying surface runoff.
STORMWATER: Rainfall runoff, snow melt runoff and drainage. It excludes
infiltration.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT CONCEPT PLAN: A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person, business or
developer to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the
actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater
conveyance systems and/or receiving waters.
STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP): A document outlined in the UPDES
General Permits for Construction Activities which describes the general plan
for addressing storm water pollutants at a given site. The plan characterizes
the nature of the potential pollutants, describes methods and concepts for
controlling those pollutants short term and long term and identifies those
responsible for the plan. A SWPPP is required to obtain an NOI.
STORMWATER SYSTEM: A municipally owned and operated stormwater collection
system consisting of the following: curb and gutter, drainage swales, piping,
ditches, canals, detention basins, inlet boxes, land drain systems, field drain
systems, or any other system used to convey stormwater that discharges into
canals, ditches, streams, rivers or lakes not owned and operated by the
municipality.
SWALE: An elongated depression in the land surface that is at least seasonally
wet, is usually heavily vegetated, and is normally without flowing water.
Swales direct stormwater flows into primary drainage channels and allow some of
the stormwater to infiltrate into the ground surface.
UPDES PERMIT: An authorization, license or equivalent control document issued
by the EPA or an approved state agency to implement the requirements of the
NPDES program.
UTAH POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (UPDES): The State of Utah's
program to control the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States.
WATERS OF THE STATE: Surface and ground water within the boundaries of the
state of Utah and subject to its jurisdiction.
WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES: Surface watercourses and water bodies as defined
in 40 CFR section 122,2., including all natural waterways and definite channels
and depressions in the earth that may carry water, even though such waterways
may only carry water during rains and storms, and may not carry stormwater at
and during all times and seasons. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-02,
5-16-2018)
8-5-3: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall apply to all water entering the municipal stormwater system.
(Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-4: RESPONSIBILITY OF ADMINISTRATION:
The city manager, public works employees and city engineer shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or
duties imposed upon the city may be delegated in writing by the city manager to
persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of
the city. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-5: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination or
pollution, nor illegal discharge of pollutants. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd.
Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-6: POLICIES:
The city council may adopt policies consistent with this chapter to assist in
the application, administration and interpretation of this chapter, and any
resolutions related to the stormwater utility. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd.
Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-7: STORMWATER UTILITY FEE:
   A.   Fee Imposed: Each developed parcel of real property, whether
residential, commercial, manufacturing, churches or schools within the city,
shall be charged a stormwater utility fee.
   B.   ESU: The fee shall be based on the number of ESUs contained in the
parcel. The city has concluded that the ESU is the most equitable arid
practical measurement for determining the amount that each parcel contributes
to, benefits from, and otherwise uses the stormwater utility. The city
establishes that one ESU equals three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet
of impervious surface area.
   C.   Basis: The city has determined that each single-family residential
parcel generates approximately the same amount of stormwater runoff; therefore,
each developed single-family residential parcel shall pay a base rate of one
(1) ESU. All nonsingle-family residential parcels shall pay a multiple of this
base rate, expressed in ESUs, according to the number of residential units
located on the parcel. For all commercial and/or manufacturing, the city
manager and public works personnel will measure all impervious surface area of
the lot, and determine the percentage of impervious surface area it has in
relationship to one (1) ESU. That percentage will then be multiplied by the
monthly fee for an ESU. The city council may adopt separate rates for planned
residential developments, condominiums and other uses that do not typically
conform to the ESU standard.
   D.   Charge Per ESU: The amount charged for each ESU shall be established
from time to time by resolution or ordinance of the city council.
   E.   Exemptions And Credits: The city council may establish exemptions and
credits to the stormwater utility fee by resolution or ordinance.
   F   Appeals: Any person or entity that believes that this chapter, or any
stormwater utility rate resolution or ordinance, was interpreted or applied
erroneously may appeal to the city manager. The appeal shall be in writing,
shall state any facts supporting the appeal, and shall be made within ten (10)
working days of the assessment. The city manager's response shall be made
within ten (10) working days of when the appeal is filed. If the person or
entity is not satisfied with the city manager's decision, a further appeal may
be made to the city council within ten (10) working days of the city manager's
decision. The city council's decision shall be final and binding on all
parties. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-8: BILLING:
The city stormwater system, sanitary sewer system, culinary water system, and
solid waste collection system are interrelated services that are part of a
unified city plan to provide for the health, safety and welfare of the city and
its residents in an environmentally responsible manner. Therefore, the
stormwater utility fee shall be included on the city's regular monthly utility
bill for any given property. If there is no regular utility bill for the
property, the stormwater utility fee shall be charged to the owner of the
property. The fee shall be deemed a civil debt owed to the city by the person
or entity paying for the city utility services provided to the property. All
developed properties shall be charged the fee, regardless of whether or not the
owner or occupant of the property requests the utility service. Failure to pay
any portion of the utility bill will result in termination of culinary water
service. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-9: PROHIBITIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Track mud or sediment onto public streets by construction or delivery
vehicles. Provisions shall be made at all construction sites to clean the
vehicles before leaving the site or otherwise prevent the tracking of site
soils onto city streets.
   B.   Wash or rinse concrete trucks within the city right of way or where
concrete or rinse water could enter the municipal stormwater system. Dumping of
excess concrete shall not be allowed anywhere within city right of way or on
public property.
   C.   Use soil or rock ramps in the gutter to provide access to lots fronted
by curb and gutter.
   D.   Stockpile construction materials or debris in the street or in the
gutter in such a manner that the material may be considered a source of
pollution in the stormwater system. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2012-
02, 3-7-2012; Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-10: ILLEGAL DISCHARGES AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into
the municipal stormwater system or watercourses any water or materials
containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable
water quality standards.
   B.   Applicability: This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation,
illicit connections made in the past, regardless of whether said connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection. This prohibition also expressly includes, without limitation,
connections of sanitary sewer lines to the system.
   C.   Notification Of Spills: In the event of a release of hazardous
materials the person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of
the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of
nonhazardous materials, the person shall notify the city in person or by
telephone or email no later than the next business day. Notifications in person
or by telephone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to
the city within three (3) business days of the telephone notice. If the
discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an
on site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least five (5) years.
   D.   Cleanup Of Spills: Within the requirements of the law, as soon as any
person responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency
response for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected
release of materials which are resulting in, or may result in, illicit
discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater and/or the municipal
separate storm sewer system, the person shall take all necessary steps to
ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release.
   E.   Exemptions: The commencement, conduct or continuance of any
nonstormwater discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer system is
prohibited except as described in the current Utah Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (UPDES) General Permit for Discharges from Small Municipal
Separate Storm Sewer Systems (MS4s) permit. Other discharges may also be
specified in writing by the water superintendent as being necessary to protect
public health and safety.
   F.   Dye Testing Requires Approval: Dye testing is an allowable discharge
but requires a verbal notification to the city manager or designee prior to the
time of the test.
   G.   Permitted Discharges: The prohibition shall not apply to any
nonstormwater discharge permitted under an UPDES permit, waiver or waste
discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority
of the federal environmental protection agency, provided that the discharger is
in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and
other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval from
the city manager or designee has been granted for any discharge to the
stormwater system. (Ord. 2012-02, 3-7-2012; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-11: NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI); EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Required: No person shall be granted a building or excavation permit
for land disturbing activity without a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan
(SWPPP) and Notice of Intent (NOI) from the state, unless such activity is
specifically exempted by state law. No building or excavation permit
application will be considered complete until accompanied by proof of the NOI.
Refer to the state DEQ website for information pertaining to the SWPPP and NOI.
   B.   Exemptions: A NOI is generally not required for the following
activities; however, it is the responsibility of the person to confirm any and
all exemptions:
      1.   Emergency activity that is immediately necessary for the protection
of life, property or natural resources.
      2.   Existing nursery and agricultural operations conducted as a
permitted main or accessory use.
      3.   Home gardens for family food production and/or pleasure.
      4.   Disturbances less than one acre that are not part of a larger
development project. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-12: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT CONCEPT PLAN:
   A.   Required: In addition to and independent of the NOI required herein,
and in accordance with the requirements of titles 10 and 11 of this code, a
stormwater management concept plan shall be required with the preliminary plat
for all platted subdivisions, site plans for all multi-family housing projects,
single-family home construction involving soil disturbing activities of one
acre or more, mobile home parks, churches, commercial buildings and sites, and
industrial buildings and sites, and will include sufficient information (e.g.,
maps, hydrologic calculations, etc.) to evaluate the environmental
characteristics of the project site, the potential impacts of all proposed
development of the site, both present and future, on the water resources, and
the effectiveness and acceptability of the measures proposed for managing
stormwater generated at the project site. The intent of this conceptual
planning process is to determine the type of stormwater management measures
necessary for the proposed project, and ensure adequate planning for management
of stormwater runoff from the development. This plan is not a stormwater
pollution prevention plan required for the NOI.
   B.   Previously Developed Sites: For development or redevelopment, when
disturbing one acre or more, occurring on a previously developed site, an
applicant shall be required to include within the stormwater concept plan
measures for controlling existing stormwater runoff discharges from the site in
accordance with the standards of this chapter to the maximum extent
practicable. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-13: LANDSCAPING PLANS REQUIRED:
Landscaping shall conform to the intent of the stormwater management concept
plan. At a minimum, the landscaping plan shall detail vegetation and grading
and shall include any nonstandard maintenance requirements that may be
associated with the landscaping. The extent of the landscaping plan shall
incorporate at a minimum all stormwater facilities and shall be submitted with
the final plat submittal per section
11-3-5  of this code. Additional landscaping plan requirements may be required
by other ordinances. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-14: MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS:
Unless otherwise established in writing and agreed to by the city, the
following stormwater system maintenance arrangements shall be implemented:
   A.   Requirements: Landscape maintenance and preservation of land use
systems such as detention, retention and swale features for stormwater
management are to be maintained by property owners, homeowner associations or
development groups. "Maintenance" in this section is defined as landscaped with
cobble and a weed barrier or grass, mowed, watered and weed free, or a plan
approved by both the planning commission and city council. Stormwater
structures such as pipes, catch basins and sumps will be maintained by the
city. Easements to access and inspect the stormwater system and to perform
maintenance of the system shall be established on the plat or recorded with the
property title in perpetuity.
   B.   Failure To Comply: If a responsible party fails or refuses to meet the
maintenance requirements of this chapter, whether it be the normal or immediate
correction time period, after reasonable notice, the city manager may order the
public works department to abate or procure the abatement of the violation. In
the event that the stormwater management facility becomes a danger to public
safety or public health, the water superintendent shall notify the party
responsible for maintenance of the stormwater management facility in writing.
Upon receipt of that notice, the responsible person shall have ten (10)
calendar days to effect maintenance and repair of the facility in an approved
manner. After proper notice, the city may assess the owner of the facility for
the cost of repair work and any penalties, plus appropriate administrative
charges; and the cost of the work shall be a lien on the property, or prorated
against the beneficial users of the property, and may be placed on the tax bill
and collected as ordinary taxes by the county. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd.
Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-15: INSPECTION:
   A.   Authorized: To verify compliance with the NOI, the city manager, public
works personnel, city engineer or designee may conduct field inspections.
   B.   Access: The city manager, public works personnel, city engineer or
designee shall at all ordinary hours have free access to construction sites
permitted under this chapter or other chapters of this code for the purpose of
inspecting or evaluating the construction, maintenance and performance of
stormwater features. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-16: POSTCONSTRUCTION:
The applicant shall comply with the postconstruction provisions of the NOI and
provisions of this code. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-
2018)
8-5-17: ENFORCEMENT:
In the event that any person holding an excavation permit, building permit or
platted subdivision approval violates the terms of the permit or the ordinances
of this city, or conducts site development in such a manner as to adversely
affect the health, welfare or safety of persons residing or working in the
neighborhood or development site so as to be materially detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the neighborhood,
any of the designated inspectors in subsection
8-5-15 A of this chapter may suspend or revoke the building permit or place a
stop order on all work. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-18: STORMWATER INSPECTOR:
The position of stormwater inspector is hereby created for the purpose of
administering the provisions of this chapter and the powers delegated to it by
laws and statutes relating to the stormwater system in the city.
   A.   Duties Of Inspectors: The stormwater inspector is hereby authorized and
directed to:
      1.   Perform all functions necessary to enforce the provisions of this
chapter;
      2.   Inspect or cause to be inspected, as often as needed, all sites or
places for the purpose of determining whether they are in compliance with all
provisions of this code as outlined in this chapter.
   B.   Violations: If the stormwater inspector determines that any of the
conditions listed in this chapter exist on any property within the limits of
the city, or if the impact of any conditions listed in this chapter exist
outside of this city due to operations within the city, the stormwater
inspector shall:
      1.   Ascertain the names of the owners and occupants of the property
where the conditions exist, together with a description of the property;
      2.   Ascertain the names of the persons conducting operations on the
property in violation of this code and associated information related to the
permit, if issued;
      3.   Issue a written notice to the owner, occupant or persons conducting
operations on the property identifying the conditions violating this chapter
and give notice that they must be corrected within the next ten (10) calendar
days;
      4.   If the situation warrants, issue a stop work order to the owner,
occupant or persons conducting operations on the property, identifying the
conditions violating this chapter and give notice that all operations must stop
immediately, within the confines of public safety;
      5.   All stop work orders shall also state that failure to comply with
this request shall result in the city taking action to remedy the problem by
any means available, including legal action.
   C.   Stop Work Order: The stop work order shall:
      1.   Require the person to whom it is sent to correct the violation
within the time period the stormwater inspector shall designate, which shall be
not less than ten (10) days, nor greater than twenty (20) days, and shall be
known as the correction period. The time given to remedy the violation shall
begin to accumulate the day following the day on which the citation is issued.
      2.   Contain a specific statement of the nature of the violation and
generally describe the premises on which the violation exists.
      3.   Inform the person to whom the notice is issued that if compliance is
accomplished within the correction period and is fully remedied as outlined in
section 8-5-19 of this chapter, the notice will be signed by the stormwater
inspector and filed with the building permit.
      4.   Inform the person that in the event a criminal prosecution is
pursued, the prosecution shall be for a class C misdemeanor. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-
7-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-19: COMPLIANCE AND REINSPECTION:
In the event the person complies with the notice of the stormwater inspector
within the correction period, the person shall notify the stormwater inspector
a minimum of forty eight (48) hours (not including weekends or holidays) prior
to the end of the correction period. A date and time for inspection prior to
the appearance date shall be assigned and the stormwater inspector shall again
inspect the property.
   A.   Compliance: If the property is in compliance with this chapter, the
stormwater inspector shall sign off compliance on the cited person's copy of
the notice.
   B.   Criminal Prosecution: In the event the person in violation has not
received a reinspection indicating compliance with this chapter prior to the
end of the correction period, criminal prosecution of the matter shall proceed.
   C.   Immediate Threats: In the event that the violation is an immediate
threat to the public health, safety or welfare, the stormwater inspector may
require immediate correction within a period of forty eight (48) hours. If this
violation is not corrected and reinspection requested within the required time,
the citation will be referred directly to the city prosecutor.
   D.   Failure To Correct: In the event that the violation listed on the
citation is not corrected within the appropriate time period, whether it be the
normal or immediate correction time period, the inspector may order the public
works department to abate or procure the abatement of the violation. Should the
city abate the violation, the cited person shall still face criminal
prosecution. The actual expenses and the appointed administrative fee for the
city abating the violation shall be collected from the person, firm or
corporation in violation of this chapter and be added to any fine and penalties
set by the court. (Ord. 2007-14, 11-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
8-5-20: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice: Whenever the stormwater inspector finds that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the
stormwater inspector may order compliance by written notice of violation to the
responsible person. Such notice may require, without limitation:
      1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
      2.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      3.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      4.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      5.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
      6.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   B.   Infractions; Penalties:
      1.   Monetary Penalties will be overseen by the stormwater inspector in
conjunction with the City manager and City council.
      2.   Minor Violations: In minor violations a penalty for infractions may
be implemented. Such penalty shall be consistent with the severity of the
violation and shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Penalties
for specific infractions are established by resolution through the city
council.
      3.   Criminal Penalties First Offense: Any person violating the
provisions of this chapter for the first time may be assessed a class C
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) per day for each violation.
      4.   Criminal Penalties Second Offense: Any person violating the
provisions of this chapter for the second time may be assessed a class B
misdemeanor with a maximum fine of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per day
for each violation.
      5.   Measuring Civil Penalties: In assessing a civil penalty, the city
may consider:
         a.   The harm done to the public health or the environment;
         b.   Whether the civil penalty imposed will be a substantial economic
deterrent to the illegal activity;
         c.   The economic benefit gained by the violator;
         d.   The amount of effort put forth by the violator to remedy this
violation;
         e.   Any unusual or extraordinary enforcement costs incurred by the
municipality;
         f.   The amount of penalty established by ordinance or resolution for
specific categories of violations; and
         g.   Any equities of the situation which outweigh the benefit of
imposing any penalty or damage assessment.
      6.   Recovery Of Damages And Costs: In addition to the civil penalty in
subsection B4 of this section, the municipality may recover:
         a.   All damages proximately caused by the violator to the
municipality, which may include any reasonable expenses incurred in
investigating violations of, and enforcing compliance with, this chapter or any
other actual damages caused by the violation.
         b.   The costs of the municipality's maintenance of stormwater
facilities when the user of such facilities fails to maintain them as required
by this chapter.
         c.   Recovery of costs imposed on the city, including attorney fees,
by state or federal entities. Penalties for violations of the UPDES Permit
conditions may reach a civil penalty of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per day
of violation.
   Any person who willfully or negligently violates the UPDES Permit conditions
or the Act is subject to a fine of up to twenty five thousand ($25,000) per day
of violation. Second time violations of the UPDES Permit may be fined up to
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) per day of violation.
      7.   Other Remedies: The municipality may bring legal action to enjoin
the continuing violation of this chapter, and the existence of any other
remedy, at law or equity, shall be no defense to any such actions.
      8.   Remedies Cumulative: The remedies set forth in this section shall be
cumulative, not exclusive, and it shall not be a defense to any action, civil
or criminal, that one or more of the remedies set forth herein has been sought
or granted. (Ord. 2012-02, 3-7-2012; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 5-16-2018)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING AND RELATED CODES; REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Purpose And Intent
9-1-2: Codes Adopted
9-1-3: Successor Codes
9-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish the regulatory codes
and guidelines to govern construction within the city in a thorough and concise
manner while also providing for the adoption of changes to the codes and
guidelines without the necessity of adopting new ordinances for each change or
amendment to said codes and guidelines. (2009 Code)
9-1-2: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Building Code: The international building code (IBC), as adopted by the
state, is hereby adopted as the official building code for the city, subject to
section
9-1-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Fire Code: The international fire code (IFC), as adopted by the state,
is hereby adopted as the official fire code for the city, subject to section
9-1-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Other Codes As Approved: All other building, plumbing, electrical,
mechanical, energy and/or natural gas codes established and adopted as standard
by the state, including amendments thereto, shall hereby become established as
the adopted codes of the city, subject to section
9-1-3 of this chapter. (2009 Code)
9-1-3: SUCCESSOR CODES:
The adoption of any and all codes, as established herein, as the adopted codes
of the city, shall also adopt any replacement or successor codes as they become
adopted by the state and shall become effective by the city immediately upon
passage by the state. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Purpose
9-2-2: Effect On Previous Ordinance
9-2-3: Definitions
9-2-4: Written Impact Fee Analysis
9-2-5: Impact Fee Calculations
9-2-6: Capital Facilities Plans; Reasonable Plans
9-2-7: Impact Fee Schedules And Calculations
9-2-8: Fee Exceptions And Adjustments
9-2-9: Appeal Procedure
9-2-10: Effective Date
9-2-1: PURPOSE:
This impact fee chapter revises and prescribes the city impact fee policies and
procedures and is promulgated pursuant to the requirements of the Utah impact
fees act. Further, this chapter:
   A.   Revises currently assessed impact fees within the service area;
   B.   Describes certain capital improvements to be funded by impact fees;
   C.   Provides a schedule of impact fees for differing types of land use
development; and
   D.   Sets forth direction for challenging, modifying and appealing impact
fees. (Ord. 2008-03, 4-2-2008)
9-2-2: EFFECT ON PREVIOUS ORDINANCE:
The existing impact fee ordinance of the city is superseded and amended to read
as set forth in this chapter; provided, however, that this chapter shall be
deemed a continuation of the previous ordinance, and not a new enactment,
insofar as the substance of revisions of the previous ordinance is included,
whether in the same or in different language; and this chapter shall be so
interpreted upon all questions of construction. (Ord. 2008-03, 4-2-2008)
9-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
Words and phrases that are defined in the act shall have the same definition in
this impact fee policy. The following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
CAPITAL FACILITIES PLAN: The plan or other reasonable plan for capital
improvements, required and allowed by Utah Code Annotated section 11-36-201. In
Utah Code Annotated section 11-36-201(2)(f), there is an exception to the
capital facilities plan for cities of five thousand (5,000) or less in
population, based on the latest census. The city meets this exception, however,
capital facilities plans and/or capital improvement plans have been prepared
and are summarized in exhibit C attached to ordinance 2008-03 and on file in
the city office. Reference to the city capital facilities plans and/or capital
improvement plans shall also refer to any reasonable plan prepared and included
or referenced in said exhibit C.
CITY: A local political subdivision of the state of Utah and is referred to
herein as Wellsville City (the "city").
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY: Any construction or expansion of a building, structure or
use, any change in use of a building or structure, or any change in the use of
land that creates additional demand and need for public facilities.
"Development activity" will include all development that will connect to the
referenced systems.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL: Any written authorization from the city that authorizes
the commencement of development activity.
IMPACT FEE: A payment of money imposed upon development activity as a condition
of development approval. "Impact fee" includes development impact fees, but
does not include a tax, special assessment, hookup fee, building permit fee,
fee for project improvements, or other reasonable permit or application fees.
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS: Site improvements and facilities that are planned and
designed to provide service for development resulting from a development
activity and are necessary for the use and convenience of the occupant or users
of development resulting from a development activity. "Project improvements" do
not include "system improvements", as defined in this section.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE OF THE COST OF PUBLIC FACILITY IMPROVEMENTS: An amount that
is roughly proportionate and reasonably related to the service demands and
needs of development activity.
PUBLIC FACILITIES: System improvements of the city relating to the services for
which impact fees will be assessed.
SERVICE AREA: Refers to a geographic area designated by the city based on sound
planning or engineering principles in which a defined set of the city public
facilities provides service. The "service area", for purposes of this analysis,
is shown in exhibit A attached to ordinance 2008-03 and on file in the city
office.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS: Refer both to existing public facilities designed to
provide services to the service area within the city at large and to future
public facilities identified in a reasonable plan for capital improvements
adopted by the city that are intended to provide service to service areas
within the city at large. "System improvements" do not include "project
improvements", as defined in this section. (Ord. 2008-03, 4-2-2008)
9-2-4: WRITTEN IMPACT FEE ANALYSIS:
   A.   Executive Summary: A summary of the findings of the written impact fee
analysis that is designed to be understood by a lay person is included in the
written impact fee analysis (exhibit B) and demonstrates the need for impact
fees to be charged. A copy of the executive summary is included in the written
impact fee analysis (exhibit B) and has been available for public inspection at
least fourteen (14) days prior to the adoption of this chapter.
   B.   Written Analysis: The city has prepared a written impact fee analysis
(exhibit B) for the impact fees that identifies the impact upon the public
utilities and systems required by the development activity and demonstrates how
those impacts on system improvements are reasonably related to the development
activity, estimates the proportionate share of the costs of impacts on system
improvements that are reasonably related to the development activity and
identifies how the impact fees are calculated. A copy of the written impact fee
analysis (exhibit B) has been available for public inspection at least fourteen
(14) days prior to the adoption of this chapter.
   C.   Proportionate Share Analysis: The city prepared a proportionate share
analysis which analyzes whether the proportionate share of the costs of future
public facilities is reasonably related to new development activity. The
proportionate share analysis identifies the costs of existing public
facilities, the manner of financing existing public facilities, the relative
extent to which new development will contribute to the cost of existing
facilities and the extent to which new development is entitled to a credit for
payment towards the costs of new facilities from general taxation or other
means apart from user charges in other parts of the city. A copy of the
proportionate share analysis is included in exhibit B, written impact fee
analysis and has been available for public inspection at least fourteen (14)
days prior to the adoption of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-03, 4-2-2008)
9-2-5: IMPACT FEE CALCULATIONS:
   A.   Impact Fees Enacted: The city council, by adopting this chapter,
approves and imposes impact fees in accordance with the written impact fee
analysis set forth in exhibit B. Unless otherwise provided by the city council,
impact fees shall be due at the time of an application for a building permit,
and paid to the city prior to the issuance of a building permit by city.
      1.   Elements: In calculating the impact fee, the city has included the
construction contract price, costs of improvements, material costs, fees for
engineering services provided for and directly related to the construction of
system improvements, and debt service charges if the city might use impact fees
as revenue stream to pay principal and interest on bonds or other obligations
to finance the cost of system improvements.
      2.   Notice And Hearing: Before approving the ordinance, the city held a
public hearing on April 2, 2008, and made a copy of the ordinance available to
the public at least fourteen (14) days before the date of the hearing, all in
conformity with the requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-205.
After the public hearing, the city council adopted this impact fee chapter as
presented herein.
      3.   Contents: This chapter adopting or modifying municipal impact fees
contains such detail and elements as deemed appropriate by the city council,
including a designation of the service area within which the impact fee is to
be calculated and imposed. The service area for this impact fee chapter
includes the area shown in exhibit A. This chapter includes: a) a schedule of
impact fees imposed for each type of system improvement; or b) the formula used
or to be used by the city in calculating the impact fees, or both. A copy of
this requirement is included in exhibit B, written impact fee analysis.
      4.   Adjustments: The standard impact fee may be adjusted at the time the
fee is charged in response to unusual circumstances or to fairly allocate costs
associated with impacts created by a development activity or project. The
standard impact fee may also be adjusted to ensure that impact fees are imposed
fairly for affordable housing projects, in accordance with the local
government's affordable housing policy, and other development activities with
broad public purposes.
      5.   Previously Incurred Costs: To the extent that the new growth and
development will be served by previously constructed improvements, the city
impact fees may include public facility and bond costs previously incurred by
the city. These projects are included in the calculation of the impact fees and
are under construction or completed but have not been utilized to their
capacity, as evidenced by outstanding debt obligations, engineering analysis or
otherwise.
   B.   Developer Credits: A developer may be allowed a credit against impact
fees for any dedication of land or, improvement to, or new construction of
system improvements provided by the developer; provided, that: 1) it is
identified in the city capital facilities or other reasonable plan; and 2)
required by the city as a condition of approving the development activity.
Otherwise, no credit may be allowed.
   C.   Impact Fees Accounting: The city will establish separate interest
bearing ledger accounts for each type of public facility for which an impact
fee is collected and deposited into the appropriate ledger account. Interest
earned on each fund or account shall be segregated to that account.
      1.   Reporting: At the end of each fiscal year, the city shall prepare a
report on each fund or account generally showing the source and amount of all
monies collected, earned and received by the fund or account and each
expenditure from the fund or account.
      2.   Impact Fee Expenditures: The city may expend impact fees covered by
the impact fee policy only for system improvements that are: a) public
facilities identified in the city capital facilities plan or other reasonable
plan; and b) of the specific public facility type for which the fee was
collected.
      3.   Time Of Expenditure: Impact fees collected pursuant to the
requirements of this impact fee policy are to be expended, dedicated or
encumbered for a permissible use within six (6) years of the receipt of those
funds by the city, unless otherwise directed by the city council. For purposes
of this calculation, the first funds received shall be deemed to be the first
funds expended.
      4.   Extension Of Time: The city may hold previously dedicated or
unencumbered fees for longer than six (6) years if it identifies in writing: a)
an extraordinary and compelling reason why the fees should be held longer than
six (6) years; and b) an absolute date by which the fees will be expended.
   D.   Refunds: The city shall refund any impact fees paid by a developer,
plus interest actually earned, when: 1) the developer does not proceed with the
development activity and files a written request for a refund; 2) the fees have
not been spent or encumbered; and 3) no impact has resulted. An impact that
would preclude a developer from a refund from the city may include any impact
reasonably identified by the city, including, but not limited to, the city
having sized facilities and/or paid for, installed and/or caused the
installation of facilities based, in whole or in part, upon the developer's
planned development activity even though that capacity may, at some future
time, be utilized by another development.
   E.   Other Impact Fees: To the extent allowed by law, the city council may
negotiate or otherwise impose impact fees and other fees different from those
currently charged. Those charges may, at the discretion of the city council,
include, but not be limited to, reductions or increases in impact fees, all or
part of which may be reimbursed to the developer who installed improvements
that service the land to be connected with the city system.
   F.   Additional Fees And Costs: The impact fees authorized hereby are
separate from and in addition to user fees and other charges lawfully imposed
by the city, such as engineering and inspection fees, and other fees and costs
that may not be included as itemized component parts of the impact fee
schedule. In charging any such fees as a condition of development approval, the
city recognizes that the fees must be a reasonable charge for the service
provided.
   G.   Fees Effective At Time Of Payment: Unless the city is otherwise bound
by a contractual requirement, the impact fees shall be determined from the fee
schedule in effect at the time of payment in accordance with the provisions of
subsection A of this section, and section
9-2-7 of this chapter.
   H.   Imposition Of Additional Fee Or Refund After Development: Should any
developer undertake development activities such that the ultimate density or
other impact of the development activity is not revealed to the city, either
through inadvertence, neglect, a change in plans, or any other cause
whatsoever, and/or the impact fee is not initially charged against all units or
the total density within the development, the city shall be entitled to charge
an additional impact fee to the developer or other appropriate person covering
the density for which an impact fee was not previously paid. (Ord. 2008-03, 4-
2-2008)
9-2-6: CAPITAL FACILITIES PLANS; REASONABLE PLANS:
The city has prepared capital improvement plans or other reasonable plans for
water (based on an existing master plan for water), public safety, a master
plan for parks and trails, and a capital facilities plan for sewer. The plans
have been prepared based on reasonable growth assumptions for the city, general
demand characteristics of future users of each system, and engineering
principles. Furthermore, the plans identify the impact on system improvements
created by development activity and estimate the proportionate share of the
costs of impacts on system improvements that are reasonably related to new
development activity. (Ord. 2008-03, 4-2-2008)
9-2-7: IMPACT FEE SCHEDULES AND CALCULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum Supportable Impact Fees:
      1.   The fee schedules included herein represent the maximum impact fees
which the city may impose on development within the defined service area and
are based upon general demand characteristics and potential demand that can be
created by each class of user. The city reserves the right under the impact
fees act 1 , to assess an adjusted fee to respond to unusual circumstances to
ensure that the fees are equitably assessed.
      2.   This adjustment may result in a higher fee if the city determines
that a user would create a greater than normal impact on the system. The city
may also decrease the fee if the developer provides documentation that the
proposed impact will be less than what could be expected given the type of user
2 .
   WATER IMPACT FEES
 
   Meter SiMultiplier Fee Per Meter
   3/4 inch1.00       $ 3,051.00
   1 inch  2.50       7,629.00
   11/2 inc5.00       15,257.00
   2 inch  8.00       24,412.00
   3 inch  15.00      45,772.00
   4 inch  25.00      76,287.00
 
   SEWER IMPACT FEES
 
   Meter SiMultiplier Fee Per Meter
   3/4 inch1.00       $ 5,856.00
   1 inch  2.50       14,641.00
   11/2 inc5.00       29,282.00
   2 inch  8.00       46,852.00
   3 inch  15.00      87,847.00
   4 inch  25.00      146,412.00
 
   PUBLIC SAFETY IMPACT FEES
 
Zone           Fire/EMS Impact Fee Per Unit/1K Sf
Residential          $154.00 per unit
Nonresidential       37.00 per 1K Sf
 
   PARKS AND RECREATION IMPACT FEES
 
Total parks and recreation impact fee per resident $ 654.00
City persons per household                         3.55
Parks impact fee per household                     2,322.00
 
      3.   Further calculation and presentation is included in exhibit B, the
impact fee analysis. (Ord. 2008-03, 4-2-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 11-36-202(2)(c) and (2)(d).
2 2. UCA § 11-36-202(3)(a).
9-2-8: FEE EXCEPTIONS AND ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Waiver For Public Purpose: The city council may, on a project by
project basis, authorize exceptions or adjustments to the then impact fee
structure for those projects the city council determines to be of such benefit
to the community as a whole to justify the exception or adjustment. Such
projects may include facilities being funded by tax supported agencies,
affordable housing projects, or facilities of a temporary nature.
   B.   Procedures: Applications for exceptions are to be filed with the city
at the time the applicant first requests the extension of service to the
applicant's development or property. (Ord. 2008-03, 4-2-2008)
9-2-9: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Authority: Any person or entity that has paid an impact fee pursuant to
this chapter may challenge the impact fee by filing:
      1.   An appeal to the city pursuant to subsections B through D of this
section;
      2.   A request for arbitration as provided in Utah Code Annotated section
11-36-402(1), as amended; or
      3.   An action in state district court as provided in Utah Code Annotated
section 11-36-401(4)(c)(iii), as amended.
   B.   Application; Time Limit: Any person or entity that has paid an impact
fee pursuant to this chapter may challenge or appeal the impact fee by filing a
written notice of appeal with the city manager within thirty (30) days of the
date that the fee was paid, or within such other time limit as set by Utah Code
Annotated section 11-36-401(4)(b).
   C.   Hearing: Upon receiving the written notice of appeal, the city manager
shall set a hearing date to consider the merits of the challenge or appeal. The
person or entity challenging or appealing the fee may appear at the hearing and
present any written or oral evidence deemed relevant to the challenge or
appeal. Representatives of the city may also appear and present evidence to
support the imposition of the fee.
   D.   Decision: The hearing panel, which shall consist of the city council or
such other body as the city shall designate, shall hold a hearing and make a
decision within thirty (30) days after the date the challenge or appeal is
filed. (Ord. 2008-03, 4-2-2008)
9-2-10: EFFECTIVE DATE:
Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, this impact fee chapter shall
not repeal, modify or affect any other impact fee of the city in existence as
of the effective date hereof. All impact fees established, including amendments
and modifications to previously existing impact fees, after the effective date
hereof shall comply with the requirements of this impact fee chapter. (Ord.
2008-03, 4-2-2008)
CHAPTER 3
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
9-3-1: Statutory Authorization
9-3-2: Findings Of Fact
9-3-3: Statement Of Purpose
9-3-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
9-3-5: Definitions
9-3-6: General Provisions
9-3-7: Administration
9-3-8: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
9-3-9: Penalties For Noncompliance
9-3-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
   The Legislature of the State of Utah, Utah Code Annotated sections 10-3-701
and 17-53-201 delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the Wellsville City
Council, Cache County, State of Utah, does ordain as follows:
   The City of Wellsville elects to comply with the requirements of the
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (PL 90-488, as amended). The National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) is a voluntary program administered by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), a component of the U.S. Department
of Homeland Security, and Wellsville’s community officials have elected to join
the program, participate, and enforce this Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
and the requirements and regulations of NFIP. The NFIP, established in the
aforesaid Act, provides that areas of the City having a special flood hazard be
identified by FEMA and that floodplain management measures be applied in such
flood hazard areas. Furthermore, the City may elect to administer the Flood
Damage Prevention Ordinance to areas not identified as Special Flood Hazard
Areas (SFHAs) by FEMA on the community’s effective Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM), if the community has documentation to support that there is an inherent
risk of flooding in such areas.
(Ord. 2023-02, 4-19-2023)
9-3-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Wellsville City are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 2023-02, 4-19-2023)
9-3-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize damage to public infrastructure, including, but not limited to
utilities, streets, and bridges that are susceptible to flooding;
   C.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions caused by flooding;
   D.   Minimize public expenditures on flood control projects;
   E.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and are generally undertaken at the expense of the public;
   F.   Protect and safeguard the welfare and safety of first responders should
an emergency response be needed;
   G.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   H.   Promote the notification of potential buyers if properties are in a
flood area.
(Ord. 2023-02, 4-19-2023)
9-3-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
   To accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property In times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 2023-02, 4-19-2023)
9-3-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: The point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fam becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD: The land area that would be inundated
by the one percent (1%) annual chance (100-year) flood based on future
conditions hydrology.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one (1') to three feet (31) where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into zones A, AO, AH, AE, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE, or V. For purposes of these regulations, the term “special flood hazard
area” is synonymous in meaning with the phrase “area of special flood hazard”.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD RELATED EROSION HAZARD: The land within a community which
is most likely to be subject to severe flood related erosion losses. The area
may be designated as zone E on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After the
detailed evaluation of the special flood related erosion hazard area; in
preparation for publication of the FIRM, zone E may be further refined.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The water surface elevation of the one percent (1%)
annual chance flood. The height in relation to mean sea level expected to be
reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in the floodplains
of coastal and riverine areas.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (belowground
level) on all sides.
BREAKAWAY WALL: A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A non-basement building (i) built, in case of a building in
Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D to have the top of the elevated
floor, or in the case of a building in Zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have the
bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor elevated
above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear
walls parallel to the floor of the water and (ii) adequately anchored so as not
to impair the structural Integrity of the building during a flood up to the
magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B,
C, X, and D “elevated building” also includes a building elevated by means or
fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with opening sufficient to facilitate
the unimpeded movement of flood waters. In the case of Zones V1-30, VE, or V,
“elevated building” also includes a building otherwise meeting the definition
of “elevated building” even though the lower area is enclosed by means of
breakaway walls if the breakaway walls met the standards of Section 60.3(e)(5)
of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.
EROSION: The process of the gradual wearing away of land masses. This peril is
not per se covered under the program.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1,1975, for FIRMS effective before that date. “Existing
construction” may also be referred to as “existing structures”.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXISTING STRUCTURES: See definition of Existing Construction.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION: A determination by the administrator of the
water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a
one percent (1%) or greater chance of occurrence in any given year.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING:
   A.   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from:
      1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
      3.   Mudslides (i.e. mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding
as defined in subsection A2 of this definition and are akin to a river of
liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when
earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the
current.
   B.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other
body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents
of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in subsection Al of this definition.
   Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source (see
definition of Flood or Flooding).
   Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health
regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a flood plain ordinance,
grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and other applications of
police power. The term describes such state or local regulations, in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.
   Those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized,
appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to
modify flooding to reduce the extent of the areas within a community subject to
a “special flood hazard” and the extent of the depths of associated flooding.
Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs,
levees, or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those constructed
in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOOD PROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES: The lines marking the limits of floodways on
federal, state, and local floodplain maps.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
purposes of floodplain management. “Freeboard” tends to compensate for the many
unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior or
      2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A man-made structure usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water to provide protection from temporary flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built to render the structure in violation of the applicable
non-elevation design requirements of Section 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
“manufactured home1' does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MAP: The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the agency.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, “new construction” means structures for which the start of
construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: See definition of Area of Special Flood Hazard.
SPECIAL HAZARD AREA: An area having special flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), or
flood related erosion hazards, and shown on an FHBM or FIRM as zone A, AO, A1-
30, AE, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, A99, AH, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M,
or E.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act [Pub. L. 97-348]),
includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally aboveground, as
well as a manufactured home. Structure, for insurance purposes, means:
   A.   A building with two (2) or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured
roof, that is affixed to a permanent site;
   B.   A manufactured home (also known as a mobile home), is a structure:
built on a permanent chassis, transported to its site in one or more sections,
and affixed to a permanent foundation; or
   C.   A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed to a
permanent foundation, that is regulated under the community’s floodplain
management and building ordinances or laws.
For the latter purpose, structure does not mean a recreational vehicle or a
park trailer or other similar vehicle, except as described in subsection C of
this definition, or a gas or liquid storage tank.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE:
Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the “start of construction”
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
“substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions or
   B.   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a “historic
structure”.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this ordinance
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefor, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this ordinance. (For full requirements see Section 60.6 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in Section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 2023-02, 4-19-2023)
9-3-6: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands to Which this Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of Wellsville City
limits.
   B.   Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a
scientific and engineering report entitled, “The Flood Insurance Study for
Cache County”, dated May 9, 2023, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
and Flood Boundary Floodway Maps (FIRM and FBFM) and any revisions thereto are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   C.   Establishment of Development Permit: A development permit shall be
required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Compliance: No structures or developments including buildings,
recreation vehicles, or manufactured homes or land shall hereafter be located,
altered, or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this
ordinance and other applicable regulations. Nothing herein shall prevent the
city from taking such lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violations.
   E.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail,
   F.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
State statutes.
   G.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by manmade
or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter, or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
   H.   Severability: If any section, provision, or portion of this ordinance
is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court, the remainder of the
ordinance shall not be affected.
   I.   Stop Work Order:
      1.   Authority: Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other community
official discovers any work or activity regulated by this ordinance being
performed in a manner contrary to the provision of this ordinance, the
Floodplain Administrator is authorized to issue a stop work order.
      2.   Issuance: The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given
to the owner of the property involved, or to the owner’s agent, or to the
person doing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall
immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order,
and the conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to resume.
      3.   Unlawful continuance: Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject
to penalties as prescribed by local or state law, including but not limited to,
the penalties outlined in subsection 9-3- 9. PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   J.   Automatic Adoption: Wellsville City automatically adopts effective FEMA
Flood Insurance Studies (FIS) and automatically adopts effective FEMA Flood
Insurance Rate Maps.
(Ord. 2023-02, 4-19-2023)
9-3-7: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator: The City Manager or his
appointee is hereby appointed the Floodpiain Administrator to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate sections of 44
CFR (National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain
management.
   B.   Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator: Duties and
responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but are not be
limited to, the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building
site, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State, or local governmental
agencies (including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972,33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency which is the Utah National Floodplain Coordinator, prior to
any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      8.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with subsection 9- 3-6B of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall
obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and
floodway data available from a Federal, State or other source, in order to
administer the provisions of section
9-3-8 of this chapter.
      9.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvement,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones Al-30 and
AE on the city’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the community.
      10.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community’s FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot (1'), provided
that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA
(Conditional Letter of Map Revisions).
   C.   Permit Procedures:
      1.   Application for a Development Permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not
be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
         a.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure shall be floodproofed;
         c.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of subsection
9-3-8B2 of this chapter;
         d.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         e.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection B1 of this section.
      2.   Approval or denial of a Development Permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         b.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         c.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         d.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         e.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems;
         g.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         h.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
         j.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
for that area.
   D.   Variance Procedures:
      1.   The Appeal Board as established by the community shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      2.   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      3.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
      4.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and the Utah State Department of Emergency Management upon
issuing a variance.
      5.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection C2 of this
section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
      6.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter.
      7.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      8.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
      9.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
         a.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         b.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (1)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
            (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         c.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that c the structure will be permitted to be built with the
lowest floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      10.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
         a.   The criteria outlined in subsections D1 through D9 of this
section are met, and
         b.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 2023-02, 4-19-2023)
9-3-8: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
      7.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in subsection
9-3-6B or
9-3-7B8 of this chapter or subsection C3 of this section, the following
provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement), elevated to at least one foot (1') above the base flood elevation. A
registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this
subsection as proposed in subsection 9-3-7C1a of this chapter, is satisfied.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to at least
one foot (1') above the base flood level or together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural
design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall certify that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of such
certification which includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the
Floodplain Administrator.
      3.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices if they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      4.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on
a community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over
the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to
applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         b.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites (i)
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, (ii) in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, (iii) in an expansion to an existing manufactured
home park or subdivision, or (iv) in an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a
result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         c.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with
Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of paragraph b of this section be elevated so that either:
            (1)   the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the
base flood elevation; or
            (2)   the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced
piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no
less than thirty-six inches (36") in height above grade and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
      5.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles placed on sites within
Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM shall either:
         a.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred and eighty (180)
consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use; OR
         b.   Meet the permit requirements of 9-3-7C and the elevation and
anchoring requirements for “manufactured homes” of this section.
      A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   C.   Standards For Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with sections
9-3-2,
9-3-3, and
9-3-4 of this chapter.
      2.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of subsections
9-3-6C and
9-3-7C of this chapter, and the provisions of this section.
      3.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions which is greater than fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to
subsection
9-3-6B or
9-3-7B8 of this chapter.
      4.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
      5.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
   D.   Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones): Located within
the areas of special flood hazard established in
9-3-3, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one foot (T) to three feet (3')
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions
shall apply:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet (2') if no depth number is
specified).
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures:
         a.   have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet (2') if no depth number is
specified); or
         b.   together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effect buoyancy.
      3.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section are satisfied.
      4.   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   E.   Floodways: Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard
established in this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the
floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters
which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following
provisions shall apply:
      1.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If
9-3-8E1 above is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements
shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions.
      3.   Under the provisions of 44CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Regulations, a community may permit encroachments
within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in the
base flood elevations, provided that the community first applies for a
conditional FIRM and floodway revisions through FEMA.
(Ord. 2023-02, 4-19-2023)
9-3-9: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for not more than five
(5) days, or both, for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
Wellsville City from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2023-02, 4-19-2023)
CHAPTER 4
FIRE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Districts Designated
9-4-1: DISTRICTS DESIGNATED:
The areas described in this section are established as fire districts or zones:
   A.   Entire Municipality Designated Fire District: The entire municipality
is declared to be and is designated a fire zone for the purposes of the adopted
building code and any ordinances of the municipality relating to building and
fire prevention.
   B.   Fire District Number One: Fire district number one shall include the
following described areas: None.
   C.   Fire District Number Two: Fire district number two shall include all of
those areas of the municipality located in areas zoned commercial or industrial
by the zoning ordinances of the city, except the areas described in subsection
B of this section.
   D.   Fire District Number Three: Fire district number three shall include
all areas of the city not included in fire districts one or two. (1991 Code §
15.44.010, as amended)
TITLE 10
LAND USE REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. INTRODUCTION TO LAND USE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Official Name
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3    Prohibitions
10-1-4: General Plan Mandate
10-1-5: Applicability
10-1-6: Minimum Requirements
10-1-1: OFFICIAL NAME:
The official name of this Title of the Wellsville City Code is the “Land Use
Regulations of the City of Wellsville, Utah,” which may be cited as the “Land
Use Regulations.” When references are made to a “zoning ordinance,” “zoning
code,” “subdivision ordinance,” “subdivision code,” “subdivision regulations,”
or “zoning regulations,” it shall be presumed that the reference is the Land
Use Regulations and all its components, as amended from time to time. (Ord.
2019- 04, 10-16-2019)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
The Land Use Regulations are enacted for the purpose of preserving and
improving the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens and
businesses of the City of Wellsville. The City Council declares the findings
and declares the following purposes for this Title. The Land Use Regulations
are intended to carry out the goals and policies of the General Plan.
   A.   The provisions of this Title manage growth in a way that contributes
positively to the community’s quality of life.
   B.   This Title incorporates policies and programs to maintain and promote
stability within the City’s neighborhoods.
   C.   The provisions of this Title are to be used to protect and enhance the
community’s appearance.
   D.   This Title is intended to encourage business, commerce and economic
development.
   E.   The Land Use Regulations incorporates development and performance
standards to prevent adverse land use impacts.
   F.   The Land Use Regulations promotes predictability and consistency in the
land development process – for neighborhood, business and development
interests.
   G.   This title ensures appropriate opportunities for participation and
involvement by all affected parties.
   H.   The Land Use Regulations ensures that the public recognizes that the
privilege and right of subdividing land with the City of Wellsville is a
discretionary action that requires appropriate levels of review.
   I.   This Title integrates subdivisions with land use and development
regulations to ensure that each newly created lot is buildable and can be
developed in conformance with applicable regulations.
   J.   This Title ensures that all subdivision, construction, and other
development activity conforms to the goals, policies, Wellsville Design
Standards and Specifications, and implementation measures of the Wellsville
General Plan.
   K.   The Land Use Regulations are intended to ensure that regulations are
fair to all. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-1-3: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No lot may be sold, transferred, financed, or otherwise exchanged
unless and until it has been created in conformance with the provisions of this
title and the Utah Code.
   B.   No land, building, or structure may be developed, used, occupied,
erected, moved or altered without conformance with the provisions of this title
and state law. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-1-4: GENERAL PLAN MANDATE:
Land development and capital improvement projects shall be consistent with the
General Plan. The City’s administration shall carry out the mandate of the
General Plan when reviewing project proposals, development plans, and capital
improvement programs.
   A.   Planning Commission Implementation: The Planning Commission    shall
not approve any project for which it cannot substantiate a finding that the
project is consistent with the goals, policies and implementation programs of
the General Plan.
   B.   Board Of Adjustment Implementation: The Board of Adjustment shall not
approve any variance request for which it cannot substantiate a finding that
the project is consistent with the goals, policies and implementation programs
of the General Plan.
   C.   Design Review Committee Implementation: The Design Review Committee
shall not approve any project for which it cannot substantiate a finding that
the project is consistent with the goals, policies and implementation programs
of the General Plan.
   D.   Relationship of the General Plan to the Land Use Regulations: The
General Plan is the adopted policies of the City Council. The General Plan
represents a lengthy public participation process and incorporates long range
goals, identified polices, and an implementation program. The content of the
General Plan may be cited as a basis for making decisions or as a part of the
finding to support actions initiated by this Land Use Regulations. The General
Plan is adopted as a part of this code by reference. The General Plan provides
the policies that enable the specific regulations of the Land Use Regulations
to be carried out. Implementation measures in the General Plan provide
direction for specific measures within the Land Use Regulations. When there is
a conflict between the General Plan and the Land Use Regulations, if the
General Plan provides precise development standards, the General Plan is to be
used. If the General Plan provides policy language and no specific development
standards, the Land Use Regulations specific measures are to prevail. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-1-5: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of the Land Use Regulations apply to all private and public
development within the corporate limits of the City. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-1-6: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
The provisions of the Land Use Regulations represent the minimum requirements
necessary to advance its stated purposes. Unless otherwise specified within the
code, it does not preclude adding standards and requirements necessary to
achieve the policies of the General Plan, the purposes of this Title, or
protect the public health, safety, peace, morals, and general welfare. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 2
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Violations Continue
10-2-2: Nonconformities Under Prior Code
10-2-3:    Permit Issued Before Effective Date Of Ordinance Amendments
10-2-4: Applications Received And Accepted As Complete And Approvals Issued
Prior To Amendments To This Title
10-2-1: VIOLATIONS CONTINUE:
Any violation of these regulations of the City shall continue to be a
violation. Resolving the violation shall require conformance to the regulations
in effect at the time the violation is terminated, not regulations that may
have been in effect at the time the violation was initiated. Any violation that
was not discovered by the City under prior zoning or subdivision codes shall be
resolved under the provisions of this Title. The lack of prior enforcement or
enforcement action shall not constitute any degree of recognition, approval, or
entitlement. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-2-2: NONCONFORMITIES UNDER PRIOR CODE :
Any legally existing land use, structure, or sign shall be allowed to continue
as a legally existing land use, structure, or sign in the conformance with the
provisions of
Chapter 10-59 of this Title. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-2-3:  PERMIT ISSUED BEFORE EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS:
Any building or development for which a permit was issued before an amendment
to this title that affects the regulatory conformance of the permit may be
completed in conformance with the issued permit and other applicable permits
and conditions, even if such building or development does not fully comply with
provisions of the Land Use Regulations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-2-4: APPLICATIONS RECEIVED AND ACCEPTED AS COMPLETE AND APPROVALS ISSUED
PRIOR TO AMENDMENTS TO THIS TITLE:
   A.   Applications Accepted As Complete: Any application accepted by the City
Administration as “complete” prior to an amendment to this Title that affects
the regulatory conformance of the application shall be processed under the
regulations in effect at the time of the application submittal, unless an
amendment was pending at the time a complete application is submitted or the
City can show a compelling reason for exercising its police power retroactively
to the date of the complete application.
   B.   Permits Approved: Any project which has been approved or for which a
permit has been issued prior to an amendment to this Title that affects the
regulatory conformance of the project shall be allowed to proceed under the
terms of the permit as issued by the City, except in those cases where
substantial progress, actions, or improvement toward the completion of the
project has not been made by the proponent the approval or permit shall expire
within one (1) years of approval or permit date. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 3
CONFLICTING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Conflict With Other Local Regulations
10-3-2: Conflict With State Or Federal Regulations
10-3-3: Conflict With Private Restrictions
10-3-4: Severability
10-3-1: CONFLICT WITH OTHER LOCAL REGULATIONS:
If the provisions of the Land Use Regulations are inconsistent with one another
or with other regulations or laws of the City of Wellsville, the more
restrictive provision shall control, unless otherwise stated. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
10-3-2: CONFLICT WITH STATE OR FEDERAL REGULATIONS:
If the provisions of the Land Use Regulations are inconsistent with those of
the State or Federal Government, the more restrictive provision shall control,
to the extent permitted by law. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-3-3: CONFLICT WITH PRIVATE RESTRICTIONS:
It is not the intent of the Land Use Regulations to interfere with, abrogate or
annul any easement, covenant, deed restriction or other agreement between
private parties. If the provisions of the Land Use Regulations impose a greater
restriction than imposed by a private agreement, the provisions of the Land Use
Regulations shall control. If the provisions of a private agreement impose a
greater restriction than the Land Use Regulations, the provisions of the
private agreement shall control. The City of Wellsville does not enforce
private covenants. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-3-4: SEVERABILITY:
If a Court of competent jurisdiction declares any part of the Land Use
Regulations to be invalid, that ruling shall not affect any other provisions of
the Land Use Regulations not specifically included in the ruling. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 4
RESERVED
ARTICLE II. ZONING DISTRICTS LAND USES ESTABLISHED
CHAPTER 5
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS;
ZONING MAP
SECTION:
10-5-1: Zoning Districts
10-5-2: Overlay Zones Established
10-5-3: Relationship Of The General Plan, Specific Plans, And Zoning
10-5-4: Specific Plans Established
10-5-5: Maps
10-5-1: ZONING DISTRICTS:
The following zoning districts are established and existing zoning districts
are modified to more fully meet the land use designation of the General Plan.
Old Zoning District New Zoning District Title Corresponding General Explanation
Title                                         Plan Designation
Old Zoning District   New Zoning District    Corresponding
Title                 Title                  General Plan     Explanation
                                             Designation
RCA    Residential    RCA   Residential      Residential -     
       Critical Area        Critical Area    Critical Area
       Residential          Residential      Residential -
RA 5   Agriculture    RAC5  Agriculture      Farmland          
       5 ac                 Cluster
       Residential          Residential Open Residential Open
RA 1   Agriculture    ROS 1 Space 1 acre     Space 1 ac        
       1 ac
       Residential    ROS   Residential Open Residential Open
RA 1/2 Agriculture    1/2   Space 1/2 acre   Space 1/2 ac      
       1/2 ac
       Residential          Residential      Residential -
R1     Single Family  RSF   Single Family    Town Center 12k   
       12,000 sf            12,000 sf        sf lots
                                                              This zone has
                                                              not been used
                                                              for more than
                                                              twenty years -
                                                              Repealed with
R-2    Residential                                            this ordinance -
       Multifamily 2                                          Multi Family
                                                              residential
                                                              allowed in all
                                                              RSF zoning
                                                              districts by
                         No designation - Repealed         Conditional Use
                                                              This zone has
                                                              not been used
                                                              for more than
                                                              twenty years -
       Residential                                            Repealed with
R-4    Multifamily 4                                          this ordinance -
       or more                                                Multi Family
                                                              residential
                                                              allowed in all
                                                              RSF zoning
                                                              districts by
                                                              Conditional Use
CN     Commercial
       Neighborho od                                          Commercial
                                                              Neighborhood and
                                                              Commercial
                                                              General 1 have
                            Commercial City  Community        been combined in
       Commercial     CC    Center           Commercial       the Commercial
C1     General 1                                              City Center Zone
                                                              to serve
                                                              commercial needs
                                                              within the town
                                                              center.

C2     Commercial
       General 2                                              The existing
C3     Commercial                                             general
       General 3                                              commercial has
                                                              been simplified
                                                              and combined
                                                              into one
                                                              Commercial
                                                            General Zone
                      CG    Commercial       Highway          that serves the
       Commercial           General          Commercial       commercial areas
CH     Highway                                                near Highway 89/
                                                              91 and the new
                                                              commercial land
                                                              use area in the
                                                              northeastern
                                                              portion of the
                                                              city.

                                                              New zoning
                                                             district created
No designation        HT                    American West    for the unique
                            Historic Tourism Heritage Center  uses and
                                                              requirements for
                                                              historic tourism
M1     Manufacturi ng IND   Industrial       Industrial        
No designation        PUB   Public           Public Lands      
                      REC   Recreation       Public Lands      
       Recreational         Recreation al    Special
RPD    Planned        RPD   Planned          Recreational      
       Development          Developme nt
FR4 0  Forest         FR    Forest           Forest/           
       Recreation           Recreation       Agriculture
A      Agriculture    A     Agricultural     Forest/           
                                             Agriculture
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-5-2: OVERLAY ZONES ESTABLISHED:
The following overlay zones are established:
   SP   Drinking Water Source Protection overlay zone (
Chapter 10-25)
   FH   Flood Hazard overlay zone (
Chapter 10-26)
   HD   Historic District overlay zone (
Chapter 10-27)
   FS   Wildland/Urban Interface Fire Safety overlay zone (
Chapter 10-28)
   GF   Greenfield overlay zone (
Chapter 10-29)
   RPD   Recreational Planned Development (
Chapter 10-30)
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-5-3: RELATIONSHIP OF THE GENERAL PLAN, SPECIFIC PLANS, AND ZONING:
Fundamental to the concept of a General Plan is the need of the City to
determine a process for creating an overall, general system of development that
will bring about orderly and sustainable growth. At its most basic, orderly and
sustainable growth is development that:
   A.   Avoids placing incompatible land uses next to each other.
   B.   Does not place undue financial burdens on the City or a particular
neighborhood.
   C.   Assures that adequate public services and amenities are in place to
create a livable community.
      The General Plan is the core document of the city. It establishes the
philosophy and the direction for other more detailed plans used by city
departments to manage quality development. Collectively, these are the guiding
documents of the City used to manage growth. It sets the basic direction and is
implemented through the land development code (zoning), building codes, capital
improvement plans, park plans, street plans, utility plans, etc. In short, it
helps coordinate the efforts and priorities of city departments that affect
land uses. The General Plan is also a critical tool in economic development
conveying the goals and direction of the City to potential businesses and
residents. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-5-4: SPECIFIC PLANS ESTABLISHED:
The following specific plans are established: (to be determined for future
listing). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-5-5: MAPS:
Official maps of the City of Wellsville are kept and available at Wellsville
City Hall. The figures accompanying this section are provided for reference
only.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2659.png]
 
CHAPTER 6
LAND USE CATEGORIES
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-2: Primary Use Characteristics
10-6-3: Accessory Uses
10-6-4: Use Of Examples
10-6-5: Identified Uses
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
Use categories classify land uses and activities into use categories based on
common functional, product, or physical characteristics. Characteristics
include the type and amount of activity, the type of customers or residents,
how goods or services are sold or delivered and site conditions. The use
categories provide a systematic basis for assigning present and future land
uses into appropriate zoning districts and are used primarily in the Use
Tables. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-6-2: PRIMARY USE CHARACTERISTICS:
Primary uses are assigned to the category that most closely describes the
nature of the primary use. The “Characteristics” subsection of each use
category describes the common characteristics of each primary use.
   A.   Considerations Used In Categorizing Primary Uses: The following
considerations are used to determine what category a use is in and whether the
activities are to be considered primary or accessory uses:
      1.   The actual or projected characteristics of the activity in
relationship to the stated characteristics of each use category;
      2.   The relative amount of site area or floor space and equipment
devoted to the activity;
      3.   Relative amounts of sales from each activity;
      4.   The customer type for each activity;
      5.   The relative number of employees in each activity;
      6.   Hours of operation;
      7.   Building and site arrangement;
      8.   Vehicles used with the activity;
      9.   The relative number of vehicle trips generated by the activity;
      10.   Signs;
      11.   How the use advertises itself; and
      12.   Whether the activity is likely to be found independent of the other
activities on the site.
   B.   Developments With Multiple Primary Uses: When all primary uses of a
development fall within one use category, the entire development is assigned to
that use category. A development that contains a coffee shop, bookstore and
bakery, for example, shall be classified in the Sales and Service category
because all of the development’s primary uses are in that category. When the
primary uses of a development fall within different use categories, each
primary use is classified in the applicable category and each use is subject to
all applicable regulations for that category. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-6-3: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are permitted uses in conjunction with a primary use unless
otherwise stated in the regulations. Also, unless otherwise stated, accessory
uses are subject to the same regulations as the primary use. Common accessory
uses are listed as examples in the use category descriptions. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
10-6-4: USE OF EXAMPLES:
The “Examples” subsection of each use category lists common examples of uses
included in the respective use category. The names of these sample uses are
generic. They are based on common meanings and not on what a specific use may
call itself. For example, a use that calls itself “Wholesale Warehouse” but
that sells mostly to consumers, is included in the Sales and Service category
rather than the Wholesale Sales and Service category. This is because the
actual activity on the site more closely matches the description of the Sales
and Service category. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-6-5: IDENTIFIED USES:
The base zoning districts have use tables that identify whether a use is
permitted, conditional, or not permitted (Zoning Districts are shown in
Table 10-14-2). Within each zoning district use table there are listings of
both the use categories and specific identified uses. If a desired primary use
is not listed as a specific use on the use chart, the system established in
this chapter shall be used to determine whether the use is permitted as being
consistent with a use category. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL USE CATEGORIES ZONE
SECTION:
10-7-1: Group Living
10-7-2: Multifamily Living
10-7-3: Single Family Living
10-7-1: GROUP LIVING:
   A.   Characteristics: Group Living is characterized by the residential
occupancy of a structure by a group of people who exceed the maximum occupancy
allowed by the base zoning district. Tenancy is arranged on a monthly or longer
basis. Uses where tenancy may be arranged for a shorter period are not
considered residential. They are considered to be a form of transient lodging
(see the Sales and Service and Community Service categories). Generally, Group
Living structures have a common eating area for residents; structures such as
dormitories may have several eating areas for the tenants of the structure.
Within the Group Living category there are two distinct types. The first is
where the residents of the group living structure receive care, training, or
treatment on site. The second type of group living is where the residents of
the structure do not receive care, training, or treatment on site.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses commonly associated with Group Living
are recreational facilities and parking of vehicles for occupants and staff,
carports, garages, storage buildings, and communal gardens.
   C.   Examples: Examples of Group Living include dormitories; communes;
fraternities and sororities; seminaries with boarding, monasteries, and
convents; nursing and convalescent homes; assisted living centers; and some
group homes for the physically, mentally, and/or emotionally disabled.
   D.   Regulations:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to control any adverse effects of structures where the
occupancy of the dwelling unit exceeds the maximum occupancy allowed by the
base zoning district.
      2.   Permits:
         a.   A Conditional Use Permit is required for all new or expanding
group living structures. The Conditional Use Permit shall be issued in
conformance with the City’s standard Conditional Use Permit approval process
described in
Chapter 10-49. All structures must meet current building code requirements.
Building permits are required when applicable.
         b.   Any violation related to the Conditional Use Permit or Building
Permit may result in the revocation of said permit.
      3.   Location: Group Living is only conditionally permitted in
conformance with sections
10-14-2 and
10-10-2.
      4.   Parking: Parking shall be installed in conformance with
Chapter 10-38. This includes the minimum number of parking stalls and the
location of the parking stalls and driveway.
      5.   Occupancy Limitation: Occupancy is limited by the gross finished
area of the dwelling unit. A structure in this category may be occupied by a
maximum of one occupant for every two hundred (200) square feet of gross
finished floor area, not including attached garages.
   E.   Exceptions:
      1.   Lodging where tenancy may be arranged for periods of less than
thirty (30) days is considered a hotel or motel use and is classified in the
Sales and Service category.
      2.   Lodging where the residents meet the definition of Household and
where tenancy is arranged on a month-to-month basis, or for a longer period, is
classified as Household Living.
      3.   Facilities for people who are under judicial detainment and under
the supervision of sworn officers are included in the Detention Facilities
category.(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-7-2: MULTIFAMILY LIVING:
   A.   Characteristics: Household Living is characterized by the residential
occupancy of an attached dwelling unit by a family or by no more than four (4)
unrelated persons. Tenancy is arranged on a month-to-month or longer basis.
Uses where tenancy may be arranged for a shorter period are not considered
residential. They are considered to be a form of transient lodging (see the
Sales and Service and Community Service categories).
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses commonly associated with Household
Living are recreational activities, raising of pets, hobbies and parking of
occupants’ vehicles; garage or carport; storage buildings; accessory buildings
for home hobbies; and vegetable gardens. Home occupations are accessory uses
that are subject to additional regulations.
   C.   Examples: Uses include occupancy of a dwelling unit attached to another
or other dwelling units not to exceed a total of four (4) dwelling units (i.e.,
duplex, triplex, or fourplex). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-7-3: SINGLE FAMILY LIVING:
   A.   Characteristics: Single Family Living is characterized by the
residential occupancy of one unattached dwelling unit by a family or no more
than three (3) unrelated persons. The occupation is by home ownership or
tenancy arranged on a month-to-month or longer basis. Uses where tenancy may be
arranged for a shorter period are not considered residential but are a form of
transient lodging (see the Sales and Service and Community Service categories).
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses commonly associated with Household
Living are recreational activities, raising of pets, hobbies and parking of
occupants’ vehicles; garage or carport; storage buildings; accessory buildings
for home hobbies; and vegetable gardens. Home occupations are accessory uses
that are subject to additional regulations.
   C.   Examples: Uses include occupancy of a single family detached house
existing on one lot. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL USE CATEGORIES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Entertainment Event, Major
10-8-2: Office
10-8-3: Recreation And Entertainment, Outdoor
10-8-4: Sales And Service
10-8-5: Storage, Self-Service
10-8-6: Storage, Outdoor
10-8-7: Vehicle Repair
10-8-8: Vehicle Service
10-8-1: ENTERTAINMENT EVENT, MAJOR:
   A.   Characteristics: Major Entertainment Event uses are characterized by
activities and structures that draw large numbers of people to specific events
or shows seasonally or periodically. Activities are generally of a spectator
nature.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses may include restaurants, drinking
establishments, concessions, parking and maintenance facilities.
   C.   Examples: Examples include stadiums, sports arenas, coliseums,
auditoriums, exhibition and meeting areas and fairgrounds.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   Exhibition and meeting areas with less than twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet of total event area are classified as Sales and Service.
      2.   Banquet halls that are part of hotels or restaurants are accessory
to those uses, which are included in the Sales and Service category.
      3.   Theaters, including drive-in theaters, are classified as Sales and
Service.
      4.   Recreation or entertainment uses conducted on a continuous basis are
classified as Outdoor Recreation and Entertainment or Sales and Service uses if
primarily indoors. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-8-2: OFFICE:
   A.   Characteristics: Office uses are characterized by activities conducted
in an office setting and generally focusing on business, government,
professional, medical, or financial services.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses may include cafeterias, health
facilities, parking, or other amenities primarily for the use of employees in
the firm or building.
   C.   Examples: Examples include professional services such as lawyers,
accountants, engineers, or architects; financial businesses such as lenders,
brokerage houses, bank headquarters, or real estate agents; data processing;
sales offices; government offices and public utility offices; TV and radio
studios; medical and dental clinics, and medical and dental labs; and blood-
collection facilities.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   Offices that are part of and located with a primary use in another
category are considered accessory to the firm’s primary activity. Headquarters
offices, when in conjunction with or adjacent to a primary use in another
category, are considered part of the other category.
      2.   Contractors and others who perform services off-site are included in
the Office category if equipment and materials are not stored on the site and
fabrication, services, or similar work is not carried on at the site. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-8-3: RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT, OUTDOOR:
   A.   Characteristics: Outdoor Recreation and Entertainment uses are large,
generally commercial uses that provide continuous recreation or entertainment-
oriented activities. They primarily take place outdoors. They may take place in
a number of structures that are arranged together in an outdoor setting.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses may include concessions, restaurants,
parking, caretaker’s quarters and maintenance facilities.
   C.   Examples: Examples include amusement parks, theme parks, golf driving
ranges, miniature golf facilities and zoos.
   D.   Exceptions: Uses that draw large numbers of people to periodic or
seasonal events, rather than on a continuous basis, are classified as major
Entertainment Events. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-8-4: SALES AND SERVICE:
   A.   Characteristics: Sales and Service firms are involved in the sale,
lease or rent of new or used products to the general public. They may also
provide personal services or entertainment, or provide product repair or
services for consumer and business goods.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses may include offices, storage of goods,
manufacture or repackaging of goods for on-site sale, and parking.
   C.   Examples: Examples include uses from the following four groups:
      1.   Sales-Oriented: Stores selling, leasing, or renting consumer goods,
home and business goods including art, art supplies, bicycles, clothing, dry
goods, electronic equipment, fabric, furniture, garden supplies, gifts,
groceries, hardware, home improvements, household products, jewelry, pets, pet
food, pharmaceuticals, plants, printed material, stationary and videos; food
sales and sales or leasing of consumer vehicles including passenger vehicles,
motorcycles, light and medium trucks and other recreational vehicles.
      2.   Personal Service-Oriented: Branch banks; emergency medical care;
medical clinics; laundromats; photographic studios; photocopy and blueprint
services; hair, tanning and personal care services; business, martial arts and
other trade schools; dance or music classes; taxidermists; mortuaries;
veterinarians; and animal grooming.
      3.   Entertainment-Oriented: Restaurants, cafes, delicatessens, bars and
taverns; indoor continuous entertainment activities such as bowling alleys, ice
rinks and game arcades; pool halls; dance halls; indoor firing ranges;
theaters, health clubs, gyms, membership clubs and lodges; hotels, motels,
recreational vehicle parks and other temporary lodging with an average length
of stay of less than thirty (30) days.
      4.   Repair-Oriented: Repair of televisions, audio equipment, bicycles,
clocks, watches, shoes, guns, appliances and office equipment; photo or laundry
drop-off; tailor; locksmith; and upholsterer.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   Lumber yards and other building material sales that sell primarily
to contractors and do not have a retail orientation are classified as Wholesale
Sales and Service.
      2.   Repair and service of consumer motor vehicles, motorcycles and light
and medium trucks is classified as Vehicle Repair. Repair and service of
industrial vehicles and equipment and heavy trucks is classified as Industrial
Service.
      3.   Sales, rental, or leasing of heavy trucks and equipment or
manufactured housing units are classified as Wholesale Sales and Service.
      4.   Hotels, restaurants and other services which are part of a truck
stop are considered accessory to the truck stop which is classified as
Industrial Service. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-8-5: STORAGE, SELF-SERVICE:
   A.   Characteristics: Self-Service Storage uses provide separate storage
areas for individual or business uses. The storage areas are designed to allow
private access by the tenant for storing or removing personal property.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses may include living quarters for a
resident manager or security and leasing offices. Use of the storage areas for
sales, service and repair operations, or manufacturing is not considered
accessory to the Self-Service Storage use. The rental of trucks or equipment is
also not considered accessory to a Self-Service Storage use.
   C.   Examples: Examples include facilities that provide individual storage
areas for rent. These uses are also called mini-warehouses.
   D.   Exceptions: A transfer and storage business where there are no
individual storage areas or where employees are the primary movers of the goods
to be stored or transferred is in the Warehouse and Freight Movement category.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-8-6: STORAGE, OUTDOOR:
Characteristics: The use of open areas of the lot (except the front yard) for
storage of items used for non-retail or industrial trade, the storage of
merchandise inventory, and the storage of bulk materials such as sand, gravel,
and other building materials. Outdoor storage shall also include contractors’
yards and salvage or recycling areas. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-8-7: VEHICLE REPAIR:
   A.   Characteristics: Vehicle Repair firms service passenger vehicles, light
and medium trucks and other consumer motor vehicles such as motorcycles, boats
and recreational vehicles. Generally, the customer does not wait at the site
while the service or repair is being performed.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses may include offices, sales of parts and
vehicle storage.
   C.   Examples: Examples include vehicle repair, transmission or muffler
shop, auto body shop, alignment shop, auto upholstery shop, auto detailing and
tire sales and mounting.
   D.   Exceptions: Repair and service of industrial vehicles and equipment and
of heavy trucks; towing and vehicle storage; and vehicle wrecking and salvage
are classified as Industrial Service. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-8-8: VEHICLE SERVICE:
   A.   Characteristics: Vehicle Service uses provide direct services to
motorists and motor vehicles where services and conveniences are provided for
the driver or passengers.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses may include auto repair and tire sales,
food service, and/or vehicle washing.
   C.   Examples: Examples include full-service, mini-service and self-service
gas stations; car washes; and quick lubrication services and truck stops.
   D.   Exceptions: Refueling facilities for vehicles that belong to a specific
use (fleet vehicles) are considered accessory uses if they are located on the
site of the primary use. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL USE CATEGORIES
SECTION:
10-9-1: Industrial Service
10-9-2: Manufacturing And Production
10-9-3: Warehouse And Freight Movement
10-9-4: Wholesale Sales And Service
10-9-1: INDUSTRIAL SERVICE:
   A.   Characteristics: Industrial Service firms are engaged in the repair or
servicing of industrial, business or consumer machinery, equipment, products or
by-products. Firms that service consumer goods do so by mainly providing
centralized services for separate retail outlets. Contractors and building
maintenance services and similar uses perform services off-site. Few customers,
especially the general public, come to the site.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory activities may include offices, parking and
storage.
   C.   Examples: Examples include welding shops; machine shops; tool repair;
electric motor repair; repair of scientific or professional instruments; sales,
repair, storage, , metal and building materials; towing and vehicle storage;;
heavy truck servicing and repair; tire retreading or recapping; truck stops;
building, heating, plumbing or electrical contractors; printing, publishing and
lithography; exterminators; recycling operations; janitorial and building
maintenance services; fuel oil distributors; solid fuel yards; research and
development laboratories; laundry, dry-cleaning and carpet cleaning plants; and
photo finishing laboratory; concrete batching and asphalt mixing; stocking of
sand, gravel, or other aggregate materials.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   Contractors and others who perform services off-site are included in
the Office category, if major equipment and materials are not stored at the
site and fabrication, or similar work is not carried on at the site.
      2.   Hotels, restaurants and other services which are part of a truck
stop are considered accessory to the truck stop. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-9-2: MANUFACTURING AND PRODUCTION:
   A.   Characteristics: Manufacturing and Production firms are involved in the
manufacturing, processing, fabrication, packaging, or assembly of goods.
Natural, manmade, raw, secondary, or partially completed materials may be used.
Products may be finished or semi-finished and are generally made for the
wholesale market, for transfer to other plants, or to order for firms or
consumers. Goods are generally not displayed or sold on site, but if so, they
are a subordinate part of sales. Relatively few customers come to the
manufacturing site.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory activities may include offices, cafeterias,
parking, employee recreational facilities, warehouses, storage yards, repair
facilities, truck fleets and caretaker’s quarters.
   C.   Examples: Examples include processing of food and related products;
catering establishments; meat packaging; weaving or production of textiles or
apparel; lumber mills, and other wood products manufacturing; woodworking,
including cabinet makers; production of chemical, rubber, leather, clay, bone,
plastic, stone, or glass materials or products; movie production facilities;
production or fabrication of metals or metal products including enameling and
galvanizing; manufacture or assembly of machinery, equipment, instruments,
including musical instruments, vehicles, appliances, precision items and other
electrical items; production of artwork and toys; sign making; and production
of prefabricated structures.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   Manufacturing of goods to be sold primarily on-site and to the
general public are classified as Sales and Service.
      2.   Manufacture and production of goods from composting organic material
is classified as Waste-Related uses.
      3.   Slaughter facilities are not allowed. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-9-3: WAREHOUSE AND FREIGHT MOVEMENT:
   A.   Characteristics: Warehouse and Freight Movement firms are involved in
the storage, or movement of goods for themselves or other firms. Goods are
generally delivered to other firms or the final consumer, except for some will-
call pickups. There is little on-site sales activity with the customer present.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses may include offices, truck fleet parking
and maintenance areas.
   C.   Examples: Examples include separate warehouses used by retail stores
such as furniture and appliance stores; household moving and general freight
storage; cold storage plants, including frozen food lockers; storage of weapons
and ammunition; major wholesale distribution centers; truck, or air freight
terminals; bus barns; parcel services; major post offices; and grain terminals.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   Uses that involve the transfer or storage of solid or liquid wastes
are classified as Waste-Related uses.
      2.   Mini-warehouses are classified as Self-Service Storage uses. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-9-4: WHOLESALE SALES AND SERVICE:
   A.   Characteristics: Wholesale Sales and Service firms are involved in the
sale, lease, or rent of products primarily intended for industrial,
institutional, or commercial businesses. The uses emphasize on-site sales or
order taking and often include display areas. Businesses may or may not be open
to the general public, but sales to the general public are limited. Products
may be picked up on-site or delivered to the customer.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses may include offices, product repair,
warehouses, parking, minor fabrication services and repackaging of goods.
   C.   Examples: Examples include sale or rental of machinery, equipment,
heavy trucks, building materials, special trade tools, welding supplies,
machine parts, electrical supplies, janitorial supplies, restaurant equipment
and store fixtures; mail order houses; and wholesalers of food, clothing, auto
parts, building hardware.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   Firms that engage primarily in sales to the general public or on a
membership basis are classified as Sales and Service.
      2.   Firms that are primarily storing goods with little on-site business
activity are classified as Warehouse and Freight Movement. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019)
CHAPTER 10
INSTITUTIONAL AND CIVIC USE CATEGORIES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Universities, Colleges, Applied Technology Centers
10-10-2: Community Services
10-10-3: Day Care
10-10-4: Hospitals
10-10-5: Parks And Open Areas
10-10-6: Religious Institutions
10-10-7: Safety Services
10-10-8: Schools
10-10-9: Utilities, Basic
10-10-10: Telecommunications Facilities
10-10-1: UNIVERSITIES, COLLEGES, APPLIED TECHNOLOGY CENTERS:
   A.   Characteristics: This category includes colleges and other institutions
of higher learning which offer courses of general or specialized study leading
to a degree or other certification.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses include offices, housing for students,
food service, laboratories, health and sports facilities, theaters, meeting
areas, parking, maintenance facilities and support commercial.
   C.   Examples: Examples include universities, liberal arts colleges,
community colleges, nursing and medical schools not accessory to a hospital or
medical care facilities. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-10-2: COMMUNITY SERVICES:
   A.   Characteristics: Community Services are uses of a public, nonprofit, or
charitable nature generally providing a local service to people of the
community. Generally, they provide the service on-site or have employees at the
site on a regular basis. The service is ongoing, not just for special events.
Community centers or facilities that have membership provisions are open to the
general public to join at any time, (for instance, any senior citizen could
join a senior center). The use may provide special counseling, education, or
training of a public, nonprofit or charitable nature.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses may include offices; meeting areas; food
preparation area; parking, health and therapy areas; and athletic facilities.
   C.   Examples: Examples include libraries, museums, senior centers,
community centers, publicly owned swimming pools, youth club facilities,
hospices, social service facilities, emergency shelter 1 , vocational training
for persons with physical or mental disabilities, temporary shelters and
services for victims of domestic violence, crematoriums, columbaria and
mausoleums.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   Private lodges, clubs and private or commercial athletic or health
clubs are classified as Sales and Service. Commercial museums are classified as
Sales and Service.
      2.   Parks are classified as Parks and Open Areas.
      3.   Uses where tenancy is arranged on a month-to-month basis, or for a
longer period are residential and are classified as Household. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
 
Notes
  1. Emergency shelters for purposes of relocating persons in the event of a
1 local emergency as determined by the Mayor shall not require permit
  approvals.
10-10-3: DAY CARE:
   A.   Characteristics: Day Care uses provide care, protection and supervision
for children or adults on a regular basis away from their primary residence for
less than twenty four (24) hours per day.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses include offices, food preparation,
recreation areas and parking.
   C.   Examples: Examples include childcare centers, nursery schools, latch
key programs and adult day care programs.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   Day Care does not include public or private schools or facilities
operated in connection with an employment use, shopping center or other primary
use, where children are cared for while parents or guardians are occupied on
the premises or in the immediate vicinity.
      2.   Preschools are classified as schools. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-10-4: HOSPITALS:
   A.   Characteristics: Hospitals include uses providing medical or surgical
care to patients and offering overnight care.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses include outpatient clinics, offices,
laboratories, teaching facilities, meeting areas, cafeterias, parking,
maintenance facilities and housing facilities for staff or trainees.
   C.   Examples: Examples include medical centers and hospitals.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   Uses that provide exclusive care and planned treatment or training
for psychiatric, alcohol, or drug problems, where patients are residents of the
program, are classified in the Group Living category. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-10-5: PARKS AND OPEN AREAS:
   A.   Characteristics: Parks and Open Areas are uses of land focusing on
natural areas, large areas consisting mostly of vegetative landscaping or
outdoor recreation, community gardens, or public squares. Lands tend to have
few structures.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses may include clubhouses, maintenance
facilities, concessions, caretaker’s quarters and parking.
   C.   Examples: Examples include parks, golf courses, cemeteries, public
squares, plazas, recreational trails, botanical gardens, nature preserves and
land used for grazing that is not part of a farm or ranch. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019)
10-10-6: RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS:
   A.   Characteristics: Religious Institutions primarily provide meeting areas
for religious activities.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses include Sunday school facilities,
parking, caretaker’s housing and group living facilities such as convents,
monasteries, or seminaries.
   C.   Examples: Examples include churches, temples, synagogues and mosques.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-10-7: SAFETY SERVICES:
   A.   Characteristics: Safety Services are uses that provide public safety
and emergency response services. They often need to be located in or near the
area where the service is provided. Employees are regularly present on-site.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses include offices and parking.
   C.   Examples: Examples include fire stations, police stations and emergency
medical and ambulance stations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-10-8: SCHOOLS:
   A.   Characteristics: This category includes public and private schools at
the primary, elementary, middle, junior high, or high school level that provide
state-mandated basic education.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses include play areas, cafeterias,
recreational and sport facilities, auditoriums and before- or after-school day
care.
   C.   Examples: Examples include public and private daytime schools,
preschools, boarding schools and military academies.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   Business and trade schools are classified as Sales and Service.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-10-9: UTILITIES, BASIC:
   A.   Characteristics: Basic Utilities are infrastructure services that need
to be located in or near the area where the service is provided. Basic Utility
uses generally do not regularly have employees at the site. Services may be
public or privately provided.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses may include parking and control,
monitoring, data or transmission equipment.
   C.   Examples: Examples include, water source facilities and sewage pump
stations; electrical substations; water storage and reservoirs; Storm water
retention and detention facilities; telephone exchanges; and park-and-ride
facilities for public transportation.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   Services where people are generally present are classified as
Community Services, Offices, or Safety Services.
      2.   Utility offices where employees or customers are generally present
are classified as Offices.
      3.   Bus barns are classified as Warehouse and Freight Movement. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-10-10: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   A.   Characteristics: Telecommunications facilities includes all devices,
equipment, machinery, structures or supporting elements necessary to produce
and operate as a discrete unit to produce a signal or message. Facilities may
be self-supporting, guyed, co-located with existing facilities, or mounted on
rooftops, poles, light posts, power poles, buildings or other structures.
Facilities may also include interconnection translators, connections from over-
the-air to cable, fiber-optic, or other landline transmission system.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses may include transmitter facilities or
non-public roadways used to access a telecommunications facility.
   C.   Examples: Examples include broadcast towers, communication towers,
wireless telecommunications facilities, and point-to-point microwave towers.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   Receive-only antennas are not included in this category.
      2.   Radio and television studios are classified in the Office category.
   E.   Wireless Telecommunications Facilities: Wireless telecommunications
facilities are regulated by Chapter 10-45. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 11
OTHER USE CATEGORIES
SECTION:
10-11-1: Agriculture
10-11-2: Family Food Production
10-11-1: AGRICULTURE:
   A.   Characteristics: Agriculture includes activities in which the primary
use involves raising, producing or keeping plants or animals.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses include dwellings for proprietors and
employees for the raising, production, or keeping of plants or animals and
animal.
   C.   Examples: Examples include breeding or raising of fowl or other
animals; dairy farms; stables; riding academies; breeding of domestic animals;
farming, truck gardening, forestry and tree farming; and wholesale plant
nurseries.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   Processing of animal or plant products, including milk and feedlots,
are classified as Manufacturing and Production.
      2.   Livestock auctions are classified as Wholesale Sales and Service.
      3.   Plant nurseries that are oriented to retail sales are classified as
Sales and Service. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-11-2: FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION:
   A.   Characteristics: The raising, care and keeping of limited numbers of
livestock and fowl, excluding swine, for family food production or recreation.
Also barns, corrals, pens and coops and other structures for the care and
keeping of domestic livestock and fowl (see Keeping of Animals, Section
10-44-6).
CHAPTER 12
RESERVED
ARTICLE III. BASE ZONING
CHAPTER 13
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-13-1: General
10-13-2: Residential Zoning Districts Established
10-13-3: Residential Zoning Districts
10-13-4: RCA, Residential Critical Area
10-13-5: RAC-5, Residential Agriculture Cluster
10-13-6: ROS1, Residential Open Space 1 Acre
10-13-7: ROS1/2, Residential Open Space 1/2 Acre
10-13-8: RSF, Residential Single Family 12,000 sf
10-13-1: GENERAL:
This chapter contains regulations for base residential zoning districts. It
includes a list of base residential districts; a brief explanation of each
district’s purpose; tables of allowed uses and structure types and standards
governing development within the residential districts. The provisions of this
chapter are supplemented by other regulations of the Land Use Regulations that
apply to particular uses and development types and to development within
certain combining districts. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-13-2: RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The following districts are base residential zoning districts:
   A.   RCA Residential Critical Area.
   B.   RAC-5 Residential Agriculture Cluster.
   C.   ROS 1 Residential Open Space 1 Acre.
   D.   ROS 1/2 Residential Open Space ½ Acre.
   E.   RSF Residential Single Family 12,000 sf. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-13-3: RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
Residential zoning districts are intended to accommodate residential uses and
other uses as determined in
Table 10-14-2. Density ranges are indicated within each zoning district. Single
family homes in all residential zones shall have a minimum square footage of
one thousand (1,000) sq. ft of live space. The City shall have the discretion
to determine the actual project density as supported in findings based upon
site development standards, site design and layout, and other development
factors specified in these Land Use Regulations and the General Plan.
Conditional uses are evaluated on the basis of the standards for review
contained in
Chapter 10-49. Conditional uses which may be considered within a residential
zone are listed with a “C” in
Table 10-14-2 in Chapter
10-14-2. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-13-4: RCA, RESIDENTIAL CRITICAL AREA:
   A.   Purpose. RCA, Residential-Critical Area district is intended to promote
the health, safety and the public welfare of the city and the inhabitants
thereof, by establishing standards for the critical areas within the city.
Since the critical areas of the city possess different characteristics than the
city's flatland, it is necessary to impose special regulations to minimize soil
and slope instability, erosion, sedimentation and water runoff, and to protect
the water and visual quality and natural character of these important lands.
The purpose of the district shall be to promote the following city standards by
which all development in this district shall be measured:
      1.   Planning of development shall fit the topography, soils, geology,
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site;
      2.   Orientation of all development to site specific details so that
grading and other site preparation shall be kept to an absolute minimum;
      3.   Concentration of dwellings and other structures by clustering or
planned development in such a manner as to preserve large areas of open space
and the natural characteristics of the terrain;
      4.   A safe means of ingress and egress for vehicular and pedestrian
traffic shall be provided to and within areas suitable for development while at
the same time minimizing the scarring effects of critical area street
construction;
      5.   Development shall be allowed only in those areas well suited for
development and construction as evidenced by competent soils, geology, and
hydrology investigations and reports. All other areas shall be reserved for
open space and recreation areas;
      6.   Preservation and enhancement of the natural beauty; and
      7.   The prevention of flooding and deterioration of water quality by
protection of streams, drainage channels, absorption areas and floodplains from
substantial alteration of their natural functions.
   B.   Lot Size and Development Density as established in
Table 10-15-1.
   C.   Site Development Considerations:
      1.   Design Review: Required for planned developments, subdivisions, and
for individual residences above the visual sensitivity area established in the
Land Use Element.
      2.   Onsite Usable Open Space: There shall be at least two thousand
(2,000) square feet of usable open space on each lot or as a part of overall
open space requirements as adopted in design review of the project.
      3.   Standards:
         a.   Grading:
            (1)   No grading, filling or excavation of any kind shall be
accomplished without first having obtained a grading permit from the city, who
shall not issue such permit until the final grading plan, endorsed by a
registered civil engineer, submitted as a part of the preliminary plat, is
approved by the Planning Commission.
            (2)   Land within twenty percent (20%) or greater slope shall not
be graded and must remain in its natural state, except that natural vegetation
may be supplemented by other plant material.
            (3)   Every lot or parcel shall have one buildable area equal to at
least forty percent (40%) of the minimum lot size required by the zone in which
it is located.
            (4)   Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic material,
such as vegetation, rubbish and other material which is detrimental to proper
compaction or otherwise not conducive to stability. No rock or similar
irreducible material with a maximum diameter greater than twelve inches (12")
shall be used as a fill material in fills that are intended to provide
structural strength.
            (5)   All rough street and site grading shall be completed prior to
the installation of utilities.
            (6)   Fills shall be compacted to at least ninety five percent
(95%) of AASHTO T180 density for those areas intended as structural
foundations, including roadways.
            (7)   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two (2) feet horizontal
to one (1) foot vertical. Subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary
for stability.
            (8)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two (2) horizontal to
one vertical.
            (9)   Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from
property boundaries a distance of three (3) feet minimum.
            (10) Borrowing for fill shall be prohibited unless the material is
obtained from a cut borrow area permitted under an approved grading plan.
Borrow (fill) material shall not be taken from any critical area within the
city.
            (11) Cut slopes shall be constructed to eliminate sharp angles of
intersection with the existing terrain and shall be rounded and contoured as
necessary to blend with existing topography to the maximum extent possible. The
city will not accept the dedication and maintenance of cut and fill slopes
except those within the required street rights of way. Where a cut or fill
slope occurs between two (2) lots, the slope shall normally be a part of the
downhill lot.
            (12) Maximum percentage of critical area lots that can be graded
shall not exceed fifty percent (50%), including building pad, parking,
driveways, walls, pools, patios and accessory structures.
      b.   Drainage:
         (1)   Required storm water runoff collection facilities shall be
designed so as to retain storm water runoff on development sites for a
sufficient length of time so as to prevent flooding and erosion during storm
water runoff flow periods.
         (2)   Required storm water runoff collection facilities shall be so
designed as to divert surface water away from cut faces or sloping surfaces of
a fill. French drains are not acceptable.
         (3)   Natural drainage shall be riprapped or otherwise stabilized to
the satisfaction of the city below drainage and culvert discharge points for a
distance sufficient to convey the discharge without channel erosion.
         (4)   Waste material from construction, including soil and other solid
materials, shall not be deposited within a natural or manmade drainage course,
nor within irrigation channels.
         (5)   Sediment catchment ponds shall be constructed downstream from
each development, unless sediment retention facilities are otherwise provided.
         (6)   All storm water design and facilities shall meet local, state
and federal requirements.
      c.   Vegetation and Revegetation:
         (1)   Every effort shall be made to conserve topsoil which is removed
during construction for later use on areas requiring vegetation or landscaping,
e.g., cut and fill slopes.
         (2)   Areas not contained within lot boundaries shall be protected
with adapted, fire resistant species of perennial vegetative cover after all
construction is completed. All revegetation shall follow the standards for
Fire-wise Plants for Utah Landscapes by the Utah State Extension Forester
guidelines. www.utahfireinfo.gov. Additionally, all revegetation plans shall be
submitted to the Wellsville Beautification Committee for a recommendation to
the Planning Commission.
         (3)   New planting shall be protected with organic cover.
         (4)   All disturbed soil surfaces shall be stabilized before final
acceptance of the subdivision by the city.
         (5)   In all areas under the ownership and control of the subdivider,
the subdivider shall be fully responsible for any destruction of native
vegetation which is required to be retained. The subdivider shall carry the
responsibility for such areas both for his own employees and for all
subcontractors from the first day of construction until final acceptance of the
subdivision by the city. The subdivider shall be responsible for replacing such
destroyed vegetation.
      d.   Fire Protection:
         (1)   Lot size and potential placement of buildings thereon shall be
such that adequate clearance of hazardous, flammable vegetative cover may be
accomplished and shall follow requirements of the Wildland/Urban Interface Fire
Safety Overlay Zone
Chapter 10-28.
         (2)   All easements for firebreaks for safety of built up areas shall
encompass access for firefighting personnel and equipment and such easements
shall be dedicated for this specific purpose by being recorded.
         (3)   Fire protection shall be provided as required by local and state
fire authorities.
      e.   Vehicles: A minimum of two (2) parking spaces per dwelling shall be
provided. Parking spaces must be enclosed within a garage or, if not so
enclosed, screened by landscaping such that no parked vehicles are visible from
any public street. Unenclosed parking cannot occupy front or side yard areas.
Vehicle access shall be designed in such a manner as to minimize the number of
intersections with peripheral access roads.
      f.   Critical Lands:
         (1)   Critical Lands set aside in any division of land shall not be
included in the average cross slope analysis. The total acreage of the project
site may be used for dwelling unit density calculations; provided, that all
other applicable provisions of this section are met.
         (2)   Development shall not be permitted within the legally described
boundaries of Critical Lands. However, if utility or service trenches cannot
reasonably be provided without crossing Critical Lands of the site, such
trenches may be permitted, provided they are revegetated.
         (3)   Critical Lands shall be clearly delineated, in a surveyable
manner, on all final plats and development plans.
         (4)   Critical Lands shall be incorporated into the subdivision plat
as either a portion of privately-owned lots or as land parcels under the
ownership of a homeowners' association or other approved ownership entity. Deed
restrictions which prohibit development in Critical Lands shall accompany the
plat. The open space and Critical lands requirements of the subdivision
regulations of Title 10 of this code will apply.
         (5)   Land parcels which include Critical Lands designation shall not
be further divided. Recorded subdivisions within project sites that include
relocated densities due to Critical Lands designation shall not be further
divided.
      g.   Street Design: Streets in critical areas shall reflect a rural
rather than urban character. Street alignments, where possible, should be
parallel to contours, in valleys or on ridges. If a location between a valley
and a ridge is unavoidable, directional pavements should be split, with the
principle of grading being half cut and half fill versus all fill or all cut.
Split streets may be provided by the subdivider according to the following
schedule:
         (1)   One lane in each direction, the split section width of the
pavement shall be sixteen feet (16').
         (2)   Two (2) lanes in each direction, the split section width of the
pavement shall be twenty-two feet (22'). The median between split streets shall
not exceed the slope of two feet (2') horizontal for each one foot (1')
vertical; and such median shall be planted by the subdivider and maintained for
one year, to the satisfaction of the city. Where deemed appropriate by the
city, lots may be located between the split pavement and such lots may front on
both lanes.
         (3)   Streets in critical areas may intersect at a minimum angle of
sixty degrees (60°), provided they meet all other legal requirements relating
to the construction of streets.
         (4)   Grades of streets shall be permitted to exceed eight percent
(8%), to a maximum of ten percent (10%) for a distance not greater than three
hundred feet (300') in any two thousand feet (2,000') of street distance.
         (5)   The following minimum dimensions are to be utilized in the
design of streets:
            (A)   Curb and gutter are required in the RCA zone because of
potential storm water hazards from steep roads. However, curb and gutter may
eliminated where the road grade will allow efficient management of storm water.
If the developer can show a realistic solution for managing storm water in all
or a portion of the property without the installation of curb, gutter, and
underground storm water pipes, these requirements may be modified or eliminated
as a condition of approval;
            (B)   The width of the graded section shall extend three feet (3')
beyond the curb face or edge of sidewalk on the fill side and two feet (2') on
the cut side of the street;
            (C)   Sidewalks of not less than five (5) feet in width may be
required on one side of minor streets and on both sides of a collector street,
except where adjacent to curb, sidewalks shall be six (6) feet in width;
            (D)   Parking lanes, eight feet (8') in width, may be required on
at least one side of all public streets, except where existing topography
renders development adjacent to the street impractical; or where the street
serves solely as an access road; or where an adequate number of off-street
parking spaces are provided on each lot adjacent to the street. Streets without
parking lanes shall be provided with emergency parking stalls adequate to
contain at least two (2) vehicles per lot;
         (6)   The following travel lane widths shall be required in all
critical area zones:
            (A)   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall have a minimum travel lane
of ten feet (10').
            (B)   Collector Streets: Collector streets shall have a minimum
travel lane of twelve feet (12').
      h.   Required Application Information:
         (1)   Total Design Plan: Residential developments and lots under the
provisions of the subdivision regulations codified in Title 10 of this code
shall be guided by a total design plan to include all property owned or
controlled by the applicant. All phases of a project must be drawn conceptually
to scale and must include roads, development parcels, and phasing for the total
project. The city will expect the developer to be the owner or an official
representative of the owner and to provide the city with complete information
about the size and scope of the project. The total design plan shall include
all development requirements as stated in this code. Application and submission
for approval shall meet all requirements.
         (2)   Documents: The Planning Commission shall require the following
reports and plans to be provided by the applicant. Unless the applicant is
notified of deficiencies in such reports and plans within thirty (30) days of
their submission, the reports and plans shall be deemed adequate to complete
the processing of the application. The Planning Commission may waive any
reports and plans it decides are not necessary to determine whether the
development meets the requirements of this article. Required reports shall be
as defined in the subdivision regulations codified in Title 10 . In addition,
the submitted plan shall include, at least, the following information:
            (A)   A map of the entire site showing existing details and
contours of the property and proposed contour modifications using a minimum of
ten foot (10') contour intervals at a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet
(1" = 100');
            (B)   Maps of areas to be graded, showing existing details and
contours at five foot (5') intervals where terrain will not be modified and
proposed details and contours of two foot (2') intervals where terrain
modification is proposed, using a scale of one inch equals twenty feet (1" =
20');
            (C)   An investigation of the effects of high intensity rainstorm
(one hundred (100)-year occurrence according to U.S. Department of Commerce
Weather Bureau Frequency Curves) evaluating how the proposed drainage system
will handle the predicted flows, including effects of drainage areas outside
the development, which drain through the subject area and the anticipated flow
of the drainage leaving the development;
            (D)   The history, including frequency and duration of prior
flooding;
            (E)   Proposed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface
drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other
protective devices to be constructed with or as part of the proposed work,
together with a map showing drainage areas, and the proposed drainageways which
may be affected by the proposed project. Include estimated runoff of the areas
served by the drainage plan;
            (F)   A schedule showing when each stage of the project will be
completed, including the total area of soil surface which is to be disturbed
during each stage and an estimate of starting and completion dates. The
schedule shall be drawn to limit to the shortest possible period the time that
soil is exposed and unprotected. In no event shall the existing natural
vegetation or ground cover be destroyed, removed or disturbed more than fifteen
(15) days prior to commencing grading for development as scheduled;
            (G)   A written statement by the person or firm preparing the
grading and drainage plan identifying any grading and drainage problems of the
development and further stating an opinion as to the ability of the proposed
plan to mitigate or eliminate such problems in a manner as to prevent hazard to
life, hazard to property, adverse effects on the safety, use or stability of a
public way or drainage channel and adverse impact on the natural environment;
            (H)   The vegetation plan and report shall be prepared by a person
or firm qualified by training and experience to have expert knowledge of the
subject and shall include at least the following:
               (i)   A survey of existing trees, large shrubs and ground
covers;
               (ii)   A plan of the proposed revegetation of the site detailing
existing vegetation to be preserved, new vegetation to be planted and any
modifications to existing vegetation;
               (iii)   A plan for the preservation of existing vegetation
during construction activity;
               (iv)   A vegetation maintenance program, including initial and
continuing maintenance necessary;
            (v)   A written statement by the person or firm preparing the
vegetation plan and report identifying any vegetation problems, and further
stating an opinion as to the ability of the proposed plan to mitigate or
eliminate such problems in a manner as to prevent hazard to life or property,
adverse effects on the safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage
channel and adverse impact on the natural environment. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-13-5: RAC-5, RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURE CLUSTER:
The RAC-5, Residential Agriculture Cluster district is intended to provide
permanent areas for small intensive farms, hobby farms and agricultural estate
farms. (1991 Code § 10-52-1, as amended).
   A.   Lot Size and Development Density:
      1.   Minimum area for new lots: As established in
Table 10-15-1, as adopted by the Planning Commission.
      2.   Maximum density in number of units per acre of net land area for new
lots or parcels: As established in Table 10-15-1, as adopted by the Planning
Commission, and not exceeding the maximum density. Maximum density may be
reduced at the discretion of the Planning Commission based on the proposed
subdivision design, neighborhood character, terrain, topography, site-specific
considerations, and other requirements of this Title.
   B.   Site Development Considerations:
      1.   Onsite usable open space: In conjunction with planned development
standards, there shall be at least two thousand (2,000) square feet of usable
open space on each lot or as a part of overall open space requirements as
adopted in design review of the project.
      2.   Design review: Required for planned developments and subdivisions,
but not for individual residences unless located within the Visual Sensitive
Area.
   C.   Maximum Occupancy, Vehicle Limitation:
      1.   One (1) family unit or not more than three (3) unrelated adults.
      2.   Family unit occupancy – Section Reserved.
      3.   Parking shall conform to code (Parking Section
10-38-8). No person shall maintain a number of vehicles in excess of available
conforming parking or parking for which a right-of-way parking permit has been
issued pursuant to the Wellsville City Code. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-13-6: ROS1, RESIDENTIAL OPEN SPACE 1 ACRE:
The ROS1, Residential Open Space district is intended to accommodate household
living in conventional single family detached houses.
   A.   Lot Size and Development Density:
      1.   Minimum area for new lots: As established in
Table 10-15-1.
      2.   Maximum density in number of units per acre of net land area for new
lots or parcels: As established in
Table 10-15-1, and not exceeding the maximum density. Maximum density may be
reduced at the discretion of the Planning Commission based on the proposed
subdivision design, neighborhood character, terrain, topography, site-specific
considerations, and other requirements of this Title.
   B.   Site Development Considerations:
      1.   Onsite usable open space: Single family dwellings, detached: two
thousand (2,000) square feet of usable open space for each dwelling.
      2.   Design review: Required for planned developments, subdivisions, and
in-fill, but not for other individual residences, unless located within the
Visual Sensitive Area.
   C.   Maximum Occupancy, Vehicle Limitation:
      1.   One (1) family unit or not more than three (3) unrelated adults.
      2.   Family unit occupancy – Section Reserved.
      3.   Parking shall conform to code (Parking, Section
10-38-8). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-13-7: ROS1/2, RESIDENTIAL OPEN SPACE 1/2 ACRE:
The ROS 1/2, Residential Open Space district is primarily intended to
accommodate household living in detached houses. The ROS 1/2 district
corresponds to the same land use classification of the General Plan.
   A.   Lot Size and Development Density:
      1.   Minimum area for new lots or parcels: As established in
Table 10- 15-1, as adopted by the Planning Commission.
      2.   Number of units per acre of net land area: As established in
Table 10- 15-1, as adopted by the Planning Commission. Maximum density may be
reduced at the discretion of the Planning Commission based on the proposed
Subdivision design, neighborhood character, terrain, topography, site specific
considerations, and other requirements of this Title. Final density to be
determined through the design review process and with approval of the Planning
Commission.
   B.   Site Development Considerations:
      1.   Design review: Required for planned developments, and subdivisions,
but not for individual residence unless located within a Visual Sensitive Area.
      2.   Onsite usable open space: two thousand (2,000) square feet for each
dwelling unit.
         a.   Onsite usable open space shall be usable for recreation or play.
         b.   Design review shall determine whether or not it shall be
contiguous or in clusters.
   C.   Maximum Occupancy, Vehicle Limitation:
      1.   One family unit or not more than three unrelated adults.
      2.   Family unit occupancy – Section Reserved.
      3.   Parking shall conform to code (Parking Section
10-38-8). No person shall maintain a number of vehicles in excess of available
conforming parking or parking for which a right-of-way parking permit has been
issued pursuant to the Wellsville City Code. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-13-8: RSF, RESIDENTIAL SINGLE FAMILY 12,000 SF:
The RSF, Residential Single Family district is intended to accommodate
household living in traditional single family detached houses.
   A.   Lot Size and Development Density:
      1.   Minimum area for new lots or parcels: As established in
Table 10- 15-1, as adopted by the Planning Commission.
      2.   Number of units per acre of net land area: As established in
Table 10- 15-1, as approved by the Planning Commission. Maximum density may be
reduced at the discretion of the Planning Commission based on the proposed
subdivision design, neighborhood character, terrain, topography, site-specific
considerations, and other requirements of this Title. Final density to be
determined through the design review process and with approval of the Planning
Commission.
      3.   Multiple family dwellings may be approved by Conditional Use Permit.
Refer to Chapter 10-41.
   B.   Site Development Considerations:
      1.   Onsite usable open space: two thousand (2,000) square feet for each
dwelling unit.
         a.   Onsite usable open space shall be usable for recreation or play.
         b.   Design review shall determine whether or not it shall be
contiguous or in clusters.
      2.   Design review: Required for planned developments, subdivisions, and
multi dwelling structures, but not for individual residences unless located in
the Visually Sensitive Area as defined in the General Plan.
   C.   Maximum Occupancy, Vehicle Limitation:
      1.   One (1) family unit or not more than three (3) unrelated adults.
      2.   Family unit occupancy – Section Reserved.
      3.   Parking shall conform to code (Parking Section
10-38-8). No person shall maintain a number of vehicles in excess of available
conforming parking. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 14
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT USE TABLES
SECTION:
10-14-1: Purpose
10-14-2: Primary Uses In Residential Zoning District
10-14-3: Accessory Uses: Residential Zoning Districts
10-14-4: Temporary Uses: Residential Zoning Districts
10-14-5: Residential Structure Types
10-14-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to define the types of uses permitted and
conditionally permitted within Residential Zoning districts. This chapter is
intended to define the categories of uses that are compatible with the
residential zones and to list common uses that are permitted or conditionally
permitted within residential zoning districts. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-14-2: PRIMARY USES IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT:
Table 10-14-2 lists the primary uses permitted within residential zoning
districts. All of the use categories listed in the table are defined in
Chapters 10-6,
10-7,
10- 8,
10-9,
10-10,
10-11.
   A.   Uses Permitted By Right: A “P” indicates that a use type is allowed in
the respective zoning district. These permitted uses are subject to all other
applicable regulations of the Land Use Regulations, including the Supplemental
Use and Development Regulations of Article V.
   B.   Conditional Uses: A “C” indicates that a use type is allowed only if
reviewed and approved as a Conditional Use, in accordance with the Conditional
Use review procedures of
Chapter 10-49. Conditional uses are subject to all other applicable regulations
of the Land Use Regulations, including the Supplemental Use and Development
Regulations of Article V.
   C.   Uses Not Allowed: A “No” indicates that a use type is not allowed in
the respective zoning district, unless it is otherwise expressly allowed by
other regulations of the Land Use Regulations.
Table 10-14-2: Residential Zoning District Uses
Category Description (Excerpt) Residential Zoning Districts
                               RCA RA C-5 RO S 1 ROS 1/2 RSF
                                                                                                                              Residential Zoning
Category                                          Description (Excerpt)                                                       Districts
                                                                                                                              RCA  RA   RO S ROS  RSF
                                                                                                                                   C-5  1    1/2
Residential Uses
                                                  Assisted Living Center2                                                    No3  No5  No5  No5  C
                                                  Nursing Home, Convalescent Home4                                            No5  No5  No5  No5  C
                                                  Group Homes4                                                               C5   C5   C5   C5   C5
Group Living                                      Other types of occupancy of a structure where the occupancy exceeds the
Refer to Sec.                                     maximum occupancy allowed by the base zoning district where care, training, No5  No5  No5  No5  C5
10-7-1                                           or treatment IS provided on site.4
                                                 Dormitories, Fraternities, Sororities4                                     No5  No5  No5  No5  No5
                                                  Other types of occupancy of a structure where the occupancy exceeds the
                                                  maximum occupancy allowed by the base zoning district where care, training, No5  No5  No5  No5  v
                                                  or treatment IS NOT provided on site.4
Multifamily Living                                Occupancy of an attached dwelling unit by a family or by no more than 4
Refer to Sec.                                     unrelated persons which is attached to dwelling units of a not-to exceed    No   No   No   No   C
10-7-2                                            total of two (2), three (3), or four (4) dwellings.
Single Family Living                              Residential occupancy of a dwelling unit on one lot by a family or no more
Refer to Sec.                                     than 3 unrelated persons                                                    P    P    P    P    P
10-7-3
Institutional Uses
College, University, Technical                    Colleges and other institutions of higher learning that offer courses of    No   No   No   No   C
Refer to Sec.                                     general or specialized study leading to a degree
10-10-1                                           Trade, vocational, or commercial schools                                    No   No   No   No   C
Community Services                                Uses of a public, nonprofit, or charitable nature generally providing a
Refer to Sec.                                     local service to people of the community                                    No   No   No   No   C
10-10-2
Family Day Care4 
Refer to Sec.                                     Uses providing care, protection and supervision for children or adults on a P    P    P    P    P
10-10-3                                           regular basis away from their primary residence for less than 24 hours per
                                                  day. For more than 24 hour care, a use permit is required for both
Family Group Care5                                categories                                                                  C    C    C    C    C

Commercial Day Care                               10 or more clients                                                          No   No   No   No   No
Hospital                                          Uses providing medical or surgical care to patients and offering overnight  No   C    C    C    C
Refer to Sec.                                     care
10-10-4                                           Nursing home                                                                No   C    C    C    C
Parks and Open Areas                              Uses of land focusing on natural areas, large areas consisting mostly of
Refer to Sec.                                     vegetative landscaping or outdoor recreation, community gardens, or public  C    C    C    P    P
10-10-5                                           squares
Religious Institutions
Refer to Sec.                                     Uses providing meeting areas for religious activities                       C    P    P    P    P
10-10-6
Safety Service
Refer to Sec.                                     Uses that provide public safety and emergency response services             No   C    C    C    C
10-10-7
                                                  Public schools at the primary, elementary, middle, junior high, or high     State law supersedes
Schools                                           school level that provide state-mandated basic education                    local zoning
Refer to Sec.                                                                                                                 regulations
10-10-8                                           Private schools at the primary, elementary, middle, junior high, or high    No   C    C    C    C
                                                  school level that provide state-mandated basic education
                                                  Preschool                                                                   No   C    C    C    C
                                                  Wireless Telecommunication Facilities: Commercial and private wireless
                                                  telecommunication facilities, such as “cellular” or PCS (personal       C    C    C    C    C
                                                  communications and paging facilities or others as regulated by Chapter 10-
Telecommu nication Facilities                     45
Refer to Sec.                                     Radio, television, or microwave towers                                      No   No   No   No   No
10-10-10                                          Amateur radio towers of 50’ or less in height above the average elevation No   P6   P6   P6   P6
                                                  of the subject property
                                                  All other telecommunication facilities as defined by Sec.                   No   No   No   No   No
                                                  10-10-10 and not regulated by Chapter 10-45
Utilities, basic service delivery and laterals7  Infrastructure services that need to be located in or near the area where
Refer to Sec.                                     the service is provided; physical facilities or structures that are more    C    C    C    C    C
10-10-9                                           than thirty-six inches in height above ground surface or more than a four
                                                  square feet footprint
Utilities, distribution network                   Neighborhood or area distribution network, above ground power lines of less C    C    C    C    C
                                                  than 120 kilovolts
                                                  Regional, intracity, intercity, or interstate distribution lines; above
                                                  ground power of 120 kilovolts or more; power distribution by nonfranchised
                                                  power company; physical facilities or structures that are more than thirty  C    C    C    C    C
Utilities, structures, physical facilities        six inches in height above ground surface or more than a four square feet
                                                  footprint.
                                                   
                                                  Municipal water well, reservoir, or storage tank                            C    C    C    C    C
Commercial Uses
                                                  Activities conducted in an office setting and generally focusing on         No   No   No   No   No
Office                                            business, government, professional, medical, or financial services
Refer to Sec.                                     Bank, savings and loans, or credit union                                    No   No   No   No   No
10-8-2                                            Clinic, medical, dental, or optical                                         No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Laboratory, scientific or research                                          No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Wholesale office                                                            No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Bed and breakfast: ten or fewer rooms and meal service limited to guests.8  C9   C9   C9   C9   C9
Accommod a-tions, Lodging, Bed and Breakfast      Sleeping accommodations for transient occupancy
                                                  Hotel, Motel                                                                No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Facilities providing parking that is not accessory to a specific use;       No   No   No   No   No
Parking, Commercial                               public or private
                                                  Recreational vehicle and vehicle storage parking                            No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Truck storage, outdoor                                                      No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Generally commercial uses that provide recreation or entertainment-oriented No   C    C    C    C
                                                  activities, primarily takes place outdoors
Recreation and Entertainment                      Golf course                                                                 C    C    C    C    C
Outdoor facility                                  RV Parks short term occupancy (less than 30 calendar days)                  No   No   No   No   No
Refer to Sec.                                     RV Parks long term occupancy (more than 30 calendar days)                   No   No   No   No   No
10-8-3                                            Non-vehicle camping (tents) in RV Park                                      No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Tent campground                                                             No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Miniature golf course and accessory recreation                              No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Firms involved in the sale, lease or rent of new or used products to the
                                                  general public…they may also provide personal services or entertainment, oNo   No   No   No   No
                                                  provide product repair or services for consumer and business goods
                                                  Sales and service, large, footprint greater than 100,000 sq. ft.            No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Adult oriented business9                                                   No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Amusement, commercial indoor                                                No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Animal clinic or pet hospital, no outdoor pens                              No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Animal clinic or pet hospital, with outdoor pens                            No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Antique or collectible shop                                                 No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Art supply store                                                            No   No   No   No   No
Sales and Service                                 Barber or beauty shop                                                       No   No   No   No   No
Refer to Sec.                                     Bakery or confectionery shop, retail sales                                  No   No   No   No   No
10-8-4                                            Camera shop                                                                 No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Camping supply store in RV Park                                             No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Carwash                                                                     No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Clothing                                                                    No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Club, private                                                               No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Convenience store                                                           No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Dairy products or ice cream                                                 No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Dancehall or nightclub                                                      No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Department or discount store                                                No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Drug store or pharmacy                                                      No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Dry cleaner                                                                 No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Florist shop                                                                No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Furniture or appliance store                                                No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Garden shop, plant sales, nursery                                           No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Grocery store                                                               No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Handicraft and art object sale                                              No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Hardware store                                                              No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Hobby shop                                                                  No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Kennel                                                                      No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Laundromat                                                                  No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Lithographer or print shop                                                  No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Locksmith or key shop                                                       No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Maintenance or repair service for buildings                                 No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Medical clinics and medical equipment                                       No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Mortuary                                                                    No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Music store                                                                 No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Package liquor store                                                        No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Paint sales                                                                 No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Pawn shop                                                                   No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Personal custom services such as milliner, tailor, etc.                     No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Pet shop for small animals, bird, fish                                      No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Plumbing shop                                                               No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Provisioning and recreational sporting goods sales                          No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Radio or television transmitting stations, commercial                       No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Railroad or bus passenger station                                           No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Repair of appliances, TV, radios                                            No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Restaurant or cafeteria                                                     No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Shoe, boot, saddle, or other leather goods sale and repair                  No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Storage warehouse                                                           No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Studio, decorator, and display                                              No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Studio, health, exercise, massage, reducing or similar service              No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Studio, photographer, artist, music, dance, and drama                       No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Tavern                                                                      No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Tennis or swim club, private                                                C    C    C    C    C
                                                  Theaters                                                                    No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Trailer and mobile home sales                                               No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Vehicle parts sales, new or reconditioned, indoor                           No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Vehicle parts sales, used or reconditioned, outdoor                         No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Vehicle sales                                                               No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Welding or machine shop                                                     No   No   No   No   No
Storage, Self-Service                             Uses providing storage areas for individual or business uses                No   No   No   No   No
Refer to Sec.                                     Commercial storage unit                                                     No   No   No   No   No
10-8-5
Storage, Outdoor                                  Non-retail or industrial trade, the storage of merchandise inventory, and
Refer to Sec.                                     the storage of bulk materials such as sand, gravel, and other building      No10
10-8-6                                            materials
                                                  Service to passenger vehicles, light and medium trucks and other motor
Vehicle Repair                                    vehicles such as
Refer to Sec.                                     motorcycles, boats and recreational                                         No   No   No   No   No
10-8-7                                            vehicles…generally, the customer does not wait at the site while the
                                                  service or repair is being performed
                                                  Services to motor vehicles where the driver or passengers generally wait in No   No   No   No   No
Vehicle Service                                   the car or nearby while the service is performed
Refer to Sec.                                     Gasoline service station                                                    No   No   No   No   No
10-8-8                                            Gasoline, petroleum products storage (home heating exempt) (See Uniform     No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Fire Code Section 7902)
                                                  Truck Stop                                                                  No   No   No   No   No
Industrial Uses
                                                  Firms engaged in the repair or servicing of business or consumer machinery, No   No   No   No   No
Industrial Service                                equipment, products or by-products
Refer to Sec.                                     Industrial machinery storage, sales, repair                                 No   No   No   No   No
10-9-1                                            Contractor supply store                                                     No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Contractor supply store with outdoor storage                                No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Firms involved in the manufacturing, processing, fabrication, packaging, or No   No   No   No   No
Manufactur- ing, Assembly, or Production          assembly of goods
Refer to Sec.                                     Light manufacturing processes which do not emit detectable dust, odor,
10-9-2                                            fumes, or gas beyond the boundary of the property of noises above the       No   No   No   No   No
                                                  ambient level
                                                  Firms involved in the storage, or                                           No   No   No   No   No
Warehouse, Freight Movement Refer to Sec.         movement of goods for themselves of other firms
10-9-3                                            Contractors storage yard of heavy equipment                                 No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Lumberyard                                                                  No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Storage of sand, gravel, earth or stone                                     No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Uses that receive solid or liquid wastes from others for disposal on the
                                                  site or for transfer to another location, uses that collect sanitary        No   No   No   No   No
Waste Management                                  wastes, or uses that manufacture or produce goods or energy from the
                                                  composting of organic material
                                                  Recycling drop off containers                                               No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Wrecking or salvage yards                                                   No   No   No   No   No
Wholesale Sales and Service Refer to Sec.         Firms involved in the sale, lease, or rent of products primarily intended
10-9-4                                            for                                                                         No   No   No   No   No
                                                  industrial, institutional, or commercial businesses
Other Uses
Agriculture                                       Activities that primarily involve raising, producing or keeping crops or    P    No11 No15 No15 No1
Refer to Sec.                                     animals                                                                                         5
10-11-1                                           Gardening – The cultivation or care of fruits, vegetables or flowers for  P    P    P    P    P
                                                  non commercial purposes.
Animal Slaughterin g and/or Processing                                                                                       No   No   No   No   No
                                                  Facilities for the landing and takeoff of flying equipment, arrival and
Passenger Terminals                               departure of vehicles, including loading and unloading areas for            No   No   No   No   No
                                                  passengers, cargo, or freight
Detention Facilities                              Facilities for the judicially required                                      No   No   No   No   No
                                                  detention or incarceration of people
Residential Programs for Drug & Alcohol Treatment                                                                            No   No   No   No   No
Alternative or Post Incarceration Facilities                                                                                 No   No   No   No   No
Mineral Resource Production, Processing, Storage  Mining or extraction of mineral or aggregate resources from the ground for  No   No   No   No   No
                                                  off-site use
Family Food Production                            Keeping of animals for food or recreation                                   P    P    P    P    P
Rail Lines                                        Railroad tracks and lines for the                                           C    C    C    C    C
                                                  movement of trains
 
2   For specific development regulations regarding structures where the
occupancy exceeds the maximum occupancy allowed by the base zoning district see
section
10-7-10D.
3   Except for group living uses for which State or Federal preemption may
require approval in this district.
4   “Family Caregiver” as defined by State law and administrative regulations.
The maximum number of clients (children or elder) in a family daycare are as
established by the state. In 2000, the number was eight (with no more than two
being under the age of 2). If State regulations change this number; this code
is to reflect current State law or regulations.
5   Family Group Daycare as defined by State law and administrative
regulations. In 2000, the maximum number of clients was sixteen persons (no
more than four under the age of 2) with two caregivers onsite. This category,
however in this Title does not establish a maximum number of clients. The
maximum is to be determined as a part of the conditional use permit review
process.
6   Amateur radio towers of more than 50’ (retracted height for retractable
antenna) above average elevation of the subject property require a conditional
use permit.
7   Above and below ground facilities or lines to connect to and from the
distribution system for individual development.
8   The number of guest rooms for bed and breakfast shall be dictated by
available conforming parking, or parking as otherwise approved in the
conditional use permit.
9   Refer to definition in
Chapter 10-62.
10   Outdoor storage of agriculture materials, and equipment is allowed except
in the front yard, when associated agricultural uses of same property.
11   Legally existing nonconforming agricultural uses are permitted to continue
under the provisions of
Chapter 10-59.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-14-3: ACCESSORY USES: RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
Accessory uses and structures shall be permitted within residential districts
in compliance with the Site Development Standards of Section
10-15-1. Accessory uses shall not be permitted to be constructed or occupied
before the establishment of the primary use. Additional regulations apply to
Home Occupations (See Chapter 10-43). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-14-4: TEMPORARY USES: RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
Temporary uses shall be permitted within residential districts for a period not
to exceed twelve (12) calendar months in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and Site Development Standards of Section 10-15-1. Additional
regulations apply to home occupations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-14-5: RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE TYPES:
Table
10-14-5 lists the residential structure types allowed in residential zoning
districts. All of the structure types listed in the table are defined in
Chapter 10-62. These regulations are intended to help maintain the visual
character of residential neighborhoods. At the same time, however, they are
intended to allow a variety of housing choices and promote affordable housing.
Structure types are permitted only in conjunction with an allowed use.
Table 10-14-5: Residential Structure Types Allowed in Residential Districts
Type of Residential Structure Residential Zoning Districts
                              RCA RAC-5 ROS 1 ROS 1/2 RSF
Type of Residential Structure              Residential Zoning Districts
                                           RCA RAC-5 ROS 1 ROS 1/2 RSF
House, Detached                            P   P     P     P       P
House, Attached                            No  No    No    No      C
Twin Home                                  No  No    No    No      C
Duplex                                     No  No    No    No      C
Multi Dwelling Structures: 4 or less units No  No    No    No      C
Manufactured Housing Unit12                C   C     C     C       C
Group Living Structure                     Only as identified in
                                           Table 10-14-2
Group Homes (see 10-42)                    C   C     C     C       C
 
   “P” means the residential structure type is permitted in the zoning
district.
REFERENCE LEGEND FOR ZONING DISTRICTS
   RCA, Residential Critical Area
   RAC-5 Residential Agriculture Cluster
   ROS 1 Residential Open Space 1 Acre
   ROS 1/2 Residential Open Space ½ Acre
   RSF Residential Single Family 12,000 sf
12   All manufactured homes shall be certified as a Utah Class A manufactured
home and installed on a permanent foundation in conformance with applicable
building codes and state law.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 15
SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Residential Site Development Standards
10-15-2: Density
10-15-3: Critical Lands Or Critical Lands Excluded
10-15-4: Density Redistribution In Multiple Zones To Avoid Sensitive Or
Critical Land
10-15-5: Lot Size
10-15-6: On-Site Usable Open Space
10-15-7: Setbacks
10-15-8: Height
10-15-1: RESIDENTIAL SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Table 10-15-1 lists the site development standards that apply within
residential zoning districts. These are “base” standards, not entitlements.
Other regulations of the Land Use Regulations, and the Supplemental
Regulations, may impose other development standards. ‘N’ indicates not
permitted, ‘Y’ indicates permitted.
Table 10-15-1: Residential Site Development Standards
Residential Site Development Standards
Residential Site Development Standards
                                                                                  RAC- 5        ROS 1/ RSF
                                                                           RCA    (5     ROS 1  2      (12k
                                                                                  ac.)   (1 ac) (1/    sf)
                                                                                                2 ac)
LOT REQUIREMENTS
Minimum lot area for single family dwelling after open space and critical  20,000 20,000 12,000 12,000 12,000
land set-aside                                                             sf     sf     sf     sf     sf
Minimum lot size per dwelling unit with approved multifamily after open                                6,000
space and critical land set-a-side (see                                    N      N      N      N      sf
10-41-2 )                                                                                              /D.U.
DENSITY Maximum dwelling units per acre1                                   .40    .18    .86    1.80   2.85
Residential Site Development Standards
                                                                                  RAC- 5        ROS 1/ RSF
                                                                           RCA    (5     ROS 1  2      (12k
                                                                                  ac.)   (1 ac) (1/    sf)
                                                                                                2 ac)
LOT CONFIGURATIONS
Coverage (max.), total footprints of buildings                             25%    25%    25%    35%    35%
Width (min.) in feet at the front property line. Width of lot not to be
less than minimum from front property line to front of primary structure   100    100    100    82.5   82.5
(see
10-62 Lot – width)
Width, corner lot, in feet at the front setback2                          120    120    120    100    90
Width (min.) at front property line on cul-de-sacs                         70     70     70     60     60
                                                                           Size, footprint, square footage
Non-residential buildings approved with a C.U.P.                           shall comply with underlying
                                                                           zones.
OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS
Set-aside for open space and/or critical lands (min)                       50%    50%    40%    35%    015A
Useable open space per lot (min). Open space from set aside may be used    30%    30%    30%    30%    30%
for all or part of this requirement.
PARKING AND LANDSCAPING
Parking requirement, Space per unit (Refer to Figure                       2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
10-39-12-B Parking Separation)
Parking lot interior landscaping required (multifamily only)               Yes    Yes    Yes    Yes    Yes
DESIGN REVIEW3                                                             N15    N15    N15    N15    N15
16 Distances shown in feet from property line unless noted
SETBACKS
Primary Uses
Front yard, feet from property line                                        20     30     30     30     30
Front yard for lots with multiple street frontage other than a declared    20     20     20     20     20
“front” (corner lots)
Side yard (porches, decks, overhangs – setbacks are 5’)                10     10     10     10     10
Residential Site Development Standards
                                                                                  RAC- 5        ROS 1/ RSF
                                                                           RCA    (5     ROS 1  2      (12k
                                                                                  ac.)   (1 ac) (1/    sf)
                                                                                                2 ac)
Side yard for garage if set back 35’ beyond front plane of house may be  10     10     10     10     10
(in feet)17
Front yard for front porches                                               20     20     20     20     20
Rear yard                                                                  30     30     30     30     30
Setback from US Highway 89/91                                              150    150    150    150    150
Accessory Uses                                                             Distances shown in feet from
                                                                           property line unless noted
Front yard                                                                 10 feet behind deepest portion of
                                                                           front plane of primary structure.
Side yard if building height6 is 12' or less. A lean-to structure may be
added to an accessory building with this sideyard setback if the height of 5      5      5      5      2
the lean-to, only, Is 12' feet or less,(see
10.62.1 for definition of structure, lean-to)
Side yard if building height is greater than 12', setback shall be at      one    one    one    one    one
least one half of the building height. Building height measured from grade half   half   half   half   half
to mid-point of roof height.                                               bldg.  bldg.  bldg.  bldg.  bldg.
                                                                           ht..   ht.    ht.    ht.    ht.
Distance between accessory structure and primary structure                 6      6      6      6      6
Driveway setback from side property line (in feet from property line)7     10     10     10     2      2
Rear yard                                                                  10     10     10     10     10
Setback from US Highway 89/91                                              150    150    150    150    150
HEIGHT8
Principal structures, feet not to exceed                                   35     35     35     35     35
Accessory structures, feet not to exceed                                   25     309    3021   25     25
FENCES10, WALLS, and RETAINING WALLS                                       Height shown in feet measured from
                                                                           the low point of grade
Front yard, feet within minimum setback (no chain link) see                3 or 4 3 or 4 3 or 4 3 or 4 3 or 4
10.44.2.1.to determine height allowed.
Lots with side and rear street frontage, feet within minimum setback       3      3      3      3      3
Within sight distance triangle along any side of property                  3 or 4 3 or 4 3 or 4 3 or 4 3 or 4
Residential Site Development Standards
                                                                                  RAC- 5        ROS 1/ RSF
                                                                           RCA    (5     ROS 1  2      (12k
                                                                                  ac.)   (1 ac) (1/    sf)
                                                                                                2 ac)
Lots with side and rear street frontage, feet, 12’ from right-of-way23   6      6      6      6      6
Rear yard                                                                  6      6      6      6      6
Side yard (front setback excluded)                                         6      6      6      6      6
Fences for privacy and security between property and side setback24        6      6      6      6      6
Fences for privacy and security within setback lines25                     6      6      6      6      6
Fences constructed on retaining walls within front setback26 (total height 3 or 4 3 or 4 3 or 4 3 or 4 3 or 4
of fence and wall not to exceed)
 
   REFERENCE LEGEND FOR ZONING DISTRICTS
   RCA, Residential Critical Area
   RAC-5 Residential Agriculture Cluster
   ROS 1 Residential Open Space 1 Acre
   ROS 1/2 Residential Open Space ½ Acre
   RSF Residential Single Family 12,000 sf
13   Density calculated using total acreage less Critical lands.
14   At least one of the street frontages shall be equal to or greater than the
corner frontage width; the other frontage shall be equal to or greater than the
standard street frontage width.
15   Required for individual single family dwellings located above 5000’
elevation.
15A   30% open space is required for subdivisions with 10 lots or more or
developments with 10 units or more (Table 10.35.030).
16   Standard setbacks apply to the perimeter lot boundaries prior to
subdivision for planned development. The interior setbacks on lots within
planned developments shall be as approved by the Planning Commission on the
approved site plan. Standard setbacks shall apply to public roads within
planned developments. The Planning Commission may allow other than standard
setbacks if it substantiates a finding that the road is classified as a “local
street” and is not a through road.
17   Applies only to new construction.
18   If the side yard is adjacent to a street, the accessory structure must be
a minimum of 20’ away from the street side property line.
19   Driveway setback may be 2’ at the front setback line and beyond.
20   All heights measured at mid gable or mid slope if shed roof (see “height”
10.62 Definitions).
21   Agricultural uses, such as silos, grain storage, and other agriculture
buildings may exceed with the approval of the Building Inspector and Fire
Chief.
22   Maximum fence height in feet from lowest side of the fence ground surface;
and also subject to the standards of
10-44-2.
23   Landscaping shall be planted and maintained between the fence and the
right-of-way line by owner or home owners association.
24   Fences over 6’ high require a building permit.
25   Fences surrounding tennis courts may be 10’ high with approval of a design
review permit
26   Height measured from the low side of the retaining wall to top of fence.
Combined height shall not exceed allowed height (see
10.44.2.1 to determine total height allowed).
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019; amd. Ord. 2020-03, 6-17-2020; Ord. 2022-01, 3-2-
2022; Ord. 2022-02, 3-2-2022)
10-15-2: DENSITY:
   A.   The maximum density standard of
Table 10-15-1 (expressed in units per acre of land area [U/A] when density
permits one or more units per acre; density is expressed either in number of
acres per unit when more than one acre is required for one dwelling unit, or as
a fraction of a dwelling unit per acre) apply to all residential uses. A
density of five acres per dwelling unit is expressed as either 5 ac/unit or 0.2
units/acre.
   B.   Exception to Calculate Density. A density multiplier of 1.0 may be used
to calculate the allowed density of a property, whenever one of the following
conditions exist (see
Table 10-15-1):
      1.   A lot or lots are legally existing and the lot size equals or
exceeds the required base lot size of the zone in which the parcel exists. The
base lot sizes are ROSS - 5.0 acres, ROS1-1.0 acre, ROS 1/2 - .5 acre, and RSF
- 12,000 square feet; or
      2.   A lot or lots are legally existing and no dedication of public
right-of-way is required for subdivision approval.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-10, 9-21-2022)
10-15-3: CRITICAL LANDS OR CRITICAL LANDS EXCLUDED:
Critical Lands Excluded: The area used to determine the number of allowed
dwelling units for any parcel of land shall exclude all Critical lands.
However, when a parcel of land contains highly productive agricultural soils or
community visual amenities, the maximum amount of land area to be excluded
shall not exceed the amount required for open space within the respective zone.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-15-4: DENSITY REDISTRIBUTION IN MULTIPLE ZONES TO AVOID SENSITIVE OR
CRITICAL LANDS:
Allowance for variation in location of dwellings within multiple zones: Any
project containing land with more than one residential zoning designation shall
be allowed the total number of dwelling units calculated. The distribution of
the dwellings within the zones may be modified if, in the opinion of the
Planning Commission, dwellings may be more appropriately located to avoid
critical lands, or may be so located for the greater benefit of the
neighborhood or community. In no case may the total dwelling allowance exceed
the density allowance of this title. The Planning Commission shall determine
the extent and the distribution of dwellings within the zones. (1991 Code §
17.04.063, as amended). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-15-5: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Area: In order to develop a use other than one single family dwelling,
the subject property shall be at least equal to the minimum lot size defined in
Table 10-15-1.
   B.   Width: The minimum frontage standards of
Table 10-15-1 apply to all uses allowed within the residential districts.
   C.   Exception: A single detached house may be built upon an official lot of
record that existed prior to April 15 1972 and does not comply with the minimum
size standards of
Table 10-15-1 upon approval of the Board of Adjustment and provided that the
development of the lot shall comply with all other applicable site development
standards. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-15-6: ON-SITE USABLE OPEN SPACE:
   A.   The minimum on-site space standards of
Table 10-15-1 apply only to residential uses allowed within the residential
districts. Required on-site open space shall be provided on the same lot as the
residential use it is intended to serve. It may be provided on or above the
ground. It may be covered with a roof structure, but it cannot be fully
enclosed, unless approved by the Planning Commission as a commonly owned
recreation center or public recreation facility owned and operated by the City.
   B.   When a project is developed with combined open space areas, the open
space shall be held in common undivided ownership and shall be managed through
the property owner or homeowner association as prescribed in
Chapter 10-35.
   C.   Usable open space is not intended to be a defined size, but the
majority of usable open space must be sited and sized in such a manner to
provide practical and useful purposes for the residents of the development. The
City Manager may call upon the Planning Commission of Parks and Recreation for
assistance in determining whether proposed “usable” open space is of a size and
nature that can be utilized by the property owners and residents. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
10-15-7: SETBACKS:
The minimum setback standards of
Table 10-15-1 apply to all uses allowed within the residential districts. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-15-8: HEIGHT:
The maximum height standards of
Table 10-15-1 apply to all primary, accessory uses and structures, fences, and
walls, allowed within residential districts, except that the following may
exceed the stated limits: water towers; utility poles; public safety
facilities; solar collectors, louvers and reflectors; penthouse structures for
elevators, stairways, HVAC facilities or similar equipment; skylights;
steeples; flagpoles; chimneys; silos; barns; or other similar structures. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 16
BUSINESS AND OTHER ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-16-1: Business And Other Districts Established
10-16-2: CC, Commercial City Center
10-16-3: CG, Commercial General District
10-16-4: CGC, Commercial General Cluster District
10-16-5: HT, Historic Tourism
10-16-6: IND, Industrial District
10-16-7: RPD, Recreational Planned Development Overlay Zone
10-16-8: PUB, Public District
10-16-9: REC, Recreation District
10-16-10: AG, Agricultural District
10-16-11: FR, Forest Recreation
10-16-12: OSC, Open Space Conservation District
10-16-1: BUSINESS AND OTHER DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The following districts are base zoning districts:
   CC, Commercial City Center.
   CG, Commercial General.
   CGC, Commercial General Cluster.
   HT, Historic Tourism.
   RPD, Recreational Planned Development.
   IND, Industrial.
   PUB, Public.
   REC, Recreation.
   AG, Agricultural.
   FR, Forest Recreation
   OSC, Open Space Conservation. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-16-2: CC, COMMERCIAL CITY CENTER:
The CC, Commercial City Center district is primarily intended to accommodate
downtown Wellsville retail and service businesses that have a limited market
area. The CC district corresponds to the land use classification of the General
Plan. The CC zone permits small-scale retail development in old downtown city
center. Its uses are intentionally limited in scope and development size, and
are to be generally supported by customers from within the community, however
uses that attract outside dollars would be welcomed and should be promoted.
   A.   Site Development Considerations:
      1.   Design review: Required.
      2.   Residential land use: Conditionally permitted conforming with the
standards for density, site development, and landscaping which is consistent
with the highest intensity residential zoning district that is nearest the
property proposing development. However, residential uses should not take
valuable retail and commercial space on the street level and adjacent to Main
Street.
      3.   Accessory dwellings associated with residential permits: Not
permitted.
      4.   Parking shall conform to code (Parking
10-38-8 ).
      5.   Signs shall conform to code (Signs,
Chapter 10-40 ). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-16-3: CG, COMMERCIAL GENERAL DISTRICT:
The CG, Commercial General district is primarily intended to accommodate
retail, service, office, and other commercial uses that have a Citywide or
regional market area. The CG district corresponds to the CG land use
classification of the General Plan.
   A.   Site Development Considerations:
      1.   Design review: Required.
      2.   Residential land use: Conditionally permitted conforming with the
standards for density, site development, and landscaping for the applicable
residential zoning district and approved multifamily residential.
      3.   Accessory dwellings associated with residential permits: Not
permitted.
   4.   Parking shall conform to code (Parking
10-38-8 ).
      5.   Signs shall conform to code (Signs,
Chapter 10-40 ). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-16-4: CGC, COMMERCIAL GENERAL CLUSTER DISTRICT:
The CG, Commercial General Cluster district is primarily intended to
accommodate retail, service, office, and other commercial uses that have a
Citywide or regional market area which are clustered around approved lighted
intersections on US Highway 89/91. The Tax ID numbers of the specific
properties that are included in this zoning district are as follows:
   • 11-090-0007
   • 11-089-0007
   • 11-087-0008
   • 11-087-0007
   • 11-088-0022
   • 11-091-0012
   • 11-091-001111-091-0010
The CGC district does not corresponds to a specific land use in the General
Plan but it does fulfill the purposes of the General Plan to concentrate
commercial activities at approved lighted intersections.
   A.   Site Development Considerations:
      1.   Design review: Required.
      2.   Residential land use: Conditionally permitted conforming with the
standards for density, site development, and landscaping for the applicable
residential zoning district and approved multifamily residential.
      3.   Accessory dwellings associated with residential permits: Not
permitted.
      4.   Parking shall conform to code (Parking
10-38-8 ).
      5.   Signs shall conform to code (Signs,
Chapter 10-40 ). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-16-5: HT, HISTORIC TOURISM:
The HT, Historic Tourism district is primarily intended to accommodate the
American West Heritage Center or other future uses similar, where land is uses
to attract citizens and tourists to enjoy (AWHC) historical venues and
attractions. The land in this district is dominated by agricultural uses mixed
with entertainment venues for tourists and local patrons. The HT district
corresponds to the AWHC land use classification of the General Plan.
   A.   Site Development Considerations:
      1.   Design review: Required.
      2.   Residential land use: Conditionally permitted conforming with the
standards for density, site development, and landscaping for the applicable
residential zoning designation.
      3.   Accessory dwellings associated with residential permits: Not
permitted.
      4.   Parking shall conform to code (Parking
10-38-8 ).
      5.   Signs shall conform to code (Signs,
Chapter 10-40 ). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-16-6: IND, INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
The IND, Industrial district is primarily intended to accommodate industrial,
manufacturing, warehousing, transportation, and high-intensity commercial uses.
The IND district corresponds to the IND land use classification of the General
Plan.
   A.   Site Development Considerations:
      1.   Design review: Required.
      2.   Residential land use: Not permitted 27 .
      3.   Accessory dwellings associated with residential permits: Not
permitted.
      4.   Parking shall conform to code (Parking, Section
10-38-8).
      5.   Signs shall conform to code (Signs,
Chapter 10-40). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
 
Notes
27 A single mobile home may be considered as a conditional use for a caretaker
   or security personnel.
10-16-7: RPD, RECREATIONAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE:
The RPD, Recreational Planned Development district is to provide a zone to
allow sensitive utilization of land in mountainous areas. It is intended to
allow the preservation of open spaces by clustering of built facilities. These
provisions are to protect the beauty and desirable environments of the
mountains within the city. This chapter also intends to protect all land
resources which are sensitive to the impacts of development. The RPD overlay
zone is not intended to become primarily, a residential zoning district. The
RPD district corresponds to the RPD land use classification of the General
Plan.
   A.   Unique Site Development Considerations for RPDs:
      1.   Design review: Required.
      2.   Residential land use is limited by the requirement of
Chapter 10-30. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-16-8: PUB, PUBLIC DISTRICT:
The PUB, Public district’s purpose is to classify lands on which public
facilities, public schools, and other existing or identified publicly-owned
facilities or uses are or will be located. Some public lands, such as parks,
community centers, educational facilities, and nature preserves are also
classified as open space. The Public zoning district is appropriate for
publicly owned lands, lands owned by public utilities, schools, or Utah State
University. Utah State University properties are classified “PUB-USU” for
purposes of identifying the University’s property and indicating that
University-owned projects are exempt from local zoning requirements. Private
projects on University lands shall be subject to City development standards and
permitting requirements.
   A.   Site Development Considerations:
      1.   Design Review: Required.
      2.   Landscaping: Publicly accessible facilities shall comply with
landscaping standards designated in
Chapter 10-39.
      3.   Parking shall conform to code (Parking, Section
10-38-8). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-16-9: REC, RECREATION DISTRICT:
The REC, Recreation districts are intended to be applied to publicly-owned
recreation and park facilities. The classification may also be used
conditionally for privately owned recreation facilities, such as a recreation
vehicle park, campground, or similar accommodation facility.
   A.   Site Development considerations:
      1.   Design Review: Required.
      2.   Landscaping: Publicly accessible facilities shall comply with
landscaping standards designated in
Chapter 10-39.
      3.   Parking shall conform to code (Parking
10-38-8). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-16-10: AG, AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT:
The AG, Agricultural district is intended to (1) accommodate agricultural land
uses; (2) protect environmentally sensitive areas of the community; (3) provide
an interim zoning classification for lands annexed into the City; or (4)
accommodate household living uses in detached houses. The AG district
corresponds to the AG land use classification of the General Plan.
   A.   Lot Size and Development Density:
      1.   Minimum area for new lots or parcels after subdivision: As
established in
Table 10-18-1, as adopted by the Planning Commission.
      2.   Maximum density in number of units per acre of net land area for new
lots or parcels: As established in
Table 10-18-1, as adopted by the Planning Commission. Maximum density may be
reduced at the discretion of the Planning Commission based on the proposed
subdivision design, neighborhood character, terrain, topography, site specific
considerations, and other requirements of this Title.
   B.   Site Development Considerations:
   1.   Design review: Required for planned developments and subdivisions, and
for individual residences above the visual sensitivity area established in the
Land Use Element.
      2.   Onsite usable open space: In conjunction with planned development
requirements, there shall be at least two thousand (2,000) square feet of
usable open space on each lot or as a part of overall open space requirements
as adopted in design review of the project. In the zoning district, there is no
reduction for additional units.
   C.   Maximum Occupancy, Vehicle Limitation:
      1.   One (1) family unit or not more than three (3) unrelated adults.
      2.   Family unit occupancy – Section Reserved.
      3.   Parking shall conform to code (Parking, Section
10-38-8). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-16-11: FR, FOREST RECREATION:
The FR, Forest Recreation district is intended to be applied to mountain lands.
   A.   Site Development considerations:
      1.   Design Review: Required.
      2.   Landscaping: Publicly accessible facilities shall comply with
landscaping standards designated in
Chapter 10-39.
      3.   Parking shall conform to code (Parking
10-38-8).
      4.   Maximum density in number of units per acre of net land area for new
lots or parcels: As established in
Table 10-18-1, as adopted by the Planning Commission. Maximum density may be
reduced at the discretion of the Planning Commission based on the proposed
subdivision design, neighborhood character, terrain, topography, site specific
considerations, and other requirements of this Title.
   B.   Site Development Considerations:
      1.   Design review: Required for planned developments and subdivisions,
and for individual residences above the visual sensitivity area established in
the General Plan.
      2.   Onsite usable open space: In conjunction with planned development
requirements, there shall be at least two thousand (2,000) square feet of
usable open space on each lot or as a part of overall open space requirements
as adopted in design review of the project. In the zoning district, there is no
reduction for additional units.
   C.   Maximum Occupancy, Vehicle Limitation:
      1.   One (1) family unit or not more than three (3) unrelated adults.
      2.   Family unit occupancy – Section Reserved.
      3.   Parking shall conform to code (Parking Section
10-38-8). No person shall maintain a number of vehicles in excess of available
conforming parking. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-16-12: OSC, OPEN SPACE CONSERVATION DISTRICT:
The OSC, Open Space Conservation district is intended to (1) accommodate
agricultural land uses; (2) protect environmentally sensitive areas of the
community including but not limited to steep slope, flood plains, etc. (3) or
accommodate a very limited number of detached houses. The OSC district
corresponds to the OSC land use classification of the General Plan. This land
use is located primarily in the flood plain of the Little Bear River and is
downstream of the Hyrum Dam and Reservoir. This zone is to have limited
residential uses and requires flood mitigation to obtain approval of any
residential units. Development shall also be constrained by other local, state,
and federal requirements.
   A.   Lot Size And Development Density:
      1.   Minimum area for new lots or parcels after subdivision: As
established in
Table 10-18-1, as adopted by the Planning Commission.
      2.   Maximum density in number of units per acre of net land area for new
lots or parcels: As established in
Table 10-18-1, as adopted by the Planning Commission. Maximum density may be
reduced at the discretion of the Planning Commission based on the proposed
subdivision design, neighborhood character, terrain, topography,
considerations, and other requirements of this Title.
   B.   Site Development Considerations:
      1.   Design review: Required for planned developments and subdivisions,
and for individual residences above the visual sensitivity area established in
the Land Use Element.
      2.   Onsite usable open space: In conjunction with planned development
requirements, there shall be at least two thousand (2,000) square feet of
usable open space on each lot or as a part of overall open space requirements
as adopted in design review of the project. In the zoning district, there is no
reduction for additional units.
   C.   Maximum Occupancy, Vehicle Limitation:
      1.   One family unit or not more than three unrelated adults.
      2.   Family unit occupancy – Section Reserved.
      3.   Parking shall conform to code (Parking, Section
10-38-8). No person shall maintain a number of vehicles in excess of available
conforming parking. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 17
BUSINESS AND OTHER ZONING DISTRICT USE TABLES
SECTION:
10-17-1: Purpose
10-17-2: Primary Uses In Business And Other Zoning Districts
10-17-3: Residential Structure Types
10-17-4: Accessory Uses: Business And Other Zoning Districts
10-17-5: Temporary Uses: Business And Other Zoning Districts
10-17-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to define the types and scope of uses permitted
and conditionally permitted within Business and Other Zoning Districts. This
chapter is intended to define the categories of uses that are compatible with
these zones and to list common uses that are permitted or conditionally
permitted within Business and Other Zoning Districts. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-17-2: PRIMARY USES IN BUSINESS AND OTHER ZONING DISTRICTS:
Table 10-17-2  lists the primary uses allowed within commercial and industrial
zoning districts. All of the use categories listed in the table are defined in
Chapters 10-6 ,
10-7 ,
10-8 ,
10-9 ,
10-10 ,
10-1 1.
   A.   Uses Permitted By-Right A “P” indicates that a use type is allowed by
right in the respective zoning district. These permitted uses are subject to
all applicable regulations of the Land Use Regulations, including the
Supplemental Use and Development Regulations of Article V.
   B.   Conditional Uses: A “C” indicates that a use type is allowed only if
reviewed and approved as a Conditional Use, in accordance with the Conditional
Use review procedures of
Chapter 10-4 9. Conditional Uses are subject to all other applicable
regulations of the Land Use Regulations, including the Supplemental Use and
Development Regulations of Article V.
   C.   Uses Not Allowed: An “N” indicates that a use type is not allowed in
the respective zoning district, unless it is otherwise expressly allowed by
other regulations of the Land Use Regulations.
   Table 10-17-2: Primary Uses Allowed in Business and Other Zoning Districts
Category Description Business Zoning Districts Other Zoning Districts
                     CC CG /C GC HT IN D       RP D PU B RE C A FR OS C
                                                                                                                          Business       Other Zoning
Category                                           Description                                                            Zoning         Districts
                                                                                                                          Districts
                                                                                                                              CG
                                                                                                                          CC  /   HT IN  RP PU  RE A FR OS
                                                                                                                              C      D   D  B   C       C
                                                                                                                              GC
Residential Uses
                                                   Assisted Living Center28                                               P   N   N  N   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Nursing Home, Convalescent Home28                                      P   N   N  N   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Group Homes28,29                                                       P   N   N  N   N  N   N  N N  N
Group Living Refer to Sec.                         Other types of occupancy of a structure where the occupancy exceeds
10-7-1                                             the maximum occupancy allowed by the base zoning district were care,   C   N   N  N   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   training, or treatment IS provided on site.29
                                                   Other types of occupancy of a structure where the occupancy exceeds
                                                   the maximum occupancy allowed by the base zoning district where care,  C   N   N  N   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   training, or treatment IS NOT provided on site.29
Multifamily Living                                 Occupancy of an attached dwelling unit by a family or by no more than
Refer to Sec.                                      4 unrelated persons which is attached to dwelling units of a not to-   C   C   N  N   C  N   N  N N  N
10-7-2                                             exceed total of two (2), three (3), or four (4) dwellings.29
Single Family Living                               Residential occupancy of a dwelling unit by a family or no more than 3
Refer to Sec.                                      unrelated persons on one lot.                                          N   N   N  N   C  N   N  P P  P
10-7-3
Institutional Uses
College, University, Technical                     Colleges and other institutions of higher learning that offer courses  P   P   N  C   N  C   C  N N  N
Refer to Sec.                                      of general or specialized study leading to a degree
10-10-1                                            Trade, vocational, or commercial schools                               P   P   N  C   N  C   C  N N  N
Community Services Refer to Sec.                   Uses of a public, nonprofit, or charitable nature generally providing  P   P   N  C   N  C   C  N N  N
10-10-2                                            a local service to people of the community
Family Day Care30 
Refer to Sec.                                      Uses providing care, protection, and supervision for children or       P   P   C  C   C  C   C  N N  N
10-10-3                                            adults on a regular basis away from their primary residence for less
Family Group Care31 Refer to Sec.                  than 24 hours per day. For more than 24 hour care, a use permit is
10-10-3                                            required for both categories                                           P   P   N  C   C  C   N  N N  N

Commercial Day Care                                10 or more clients                                                     P   P   C  C   N  N   N  N N  N
Hospital                                           Uses providing medical or surgical care to patients and offering       P   P   N  C   N  C   N  N N  N
Refer to Sec.                                      overnight care
10-10-4                                            Nursing home                                                           P   P   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
Parks and Open Areas Refer to Sec.                 Uses of land focusing on natural area, large areas consisting mostly
10-10-5                                            of vegetative landscaping or outdoor recreation, community gardens, or P   P   P  P   P  P   P  P P  P
                                                   public squares
Religious Institutions
Refer to Sec.                                      Uses providing meeting areas for religious activities                  N   N   N  N   N  N   N  N N  N
10-10-6 
Safety Service
Refer to Sec.                                      Uses that provide public safety and emergency response services        P   P   C  P   C  P   N  N N  N
10-10-7 
                                                   Public schools at the primary,                                         State law supercedes local
Schools                                            elementary, middle, junior high, or high school level that provide     zoning regulations
Refer to Sec.                                      state mandated basic education
10-10-8                                            Private schools at the primary, elementary, middle, junior high, or    C   C   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   high school level that provide state mandated basic education
                                                   Preschool32                                                           C   C   C  N   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Wireless Telecommunication Facilities: Commercial and private wireless
                                                   telecommunication facilities, such as “cellular” or PCS (personal
                                                   communications system) communications and paging facilities or others  P33 P44 N  P44 N  P44 N  N N  N
Telecommunication Facilities                       as regulated by
Refer to Sec.                                      Chapter 10-45
10-10-10                                           Radio, television, or microwave towers                                 C   C   N  C   N  C   N  N N  N
                                                   Amateur radio towers                                                   C   C   N  C   N  C   N  N N  N
                                                   All other telecommunication facilities as defined by Sec.
                                                   10-10-10 and not regulated by                                          C   C   N  C   N  C   N  N N  N
                                                   Chapter 10-45
Utilities, basic service delivery and laterals34  Infrastructure services that need to be located in or near the area
Refer to Sec.                                      where the service is provided; physical facilities or structures that  C   C   C  C   C  C   C  C C  C
10-10-9                                            are more than thirty-six inches in height above ground surface or more
                                                   than a four square feet footprint
Utilities, distribution network                    Neighborhood or area distribution network, above ground power lines of C   C   C  C   C  C   C  C C  C
                                                   less than 120 kilovolts
                                                   Regional, intracity, intercity, or interstate distribution lines;
                                                   above ground power of 120 kilovolts or more; power distribution by
Utilities, structures, physical facilities         nonfranchised power company; physical facilities or structures that    C   C   C  C   C  C   C  C C  C
                                                   are more than thirty-six inches in height above ground surface or more
                                                   than a four square feet footprint.
                                                   Municipal water well, reservoir, or storage tank                       C   C   C  C   C  C   C  C C  C
Commercial Uses
                                                   Activities conducted in an office setting and generally focusing on    P   P   C  P   C  P   C  N N  N
Office                                             business, government, professional, medical, or financial services
Refer to Sec.                                      Bank, savings and loans, or credit union                               P   P   N  P   N  N   N  N N  N
10-8-2 34                                          Clinic, medical, dental, or optical35                                 P   P   N  P   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Laboratory, scientific or research                                     P   P   N  P   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Wholesale office36                                                    P   P   N  P   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Bed and breakfast: ten or fewer rooms and meal service limited to      P   P   C  P   C  N   N  N N  N
Accommodations, Lodging, Bed and Breakfast         guests. Sleeping accommodations for transient occupancy
                                                   Hotel, Motel                                                           P   P   N  P   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Facilities providing parking that is not accessory to a specific use;  N   N   N  N   N  N   N  N N  N
Parking, Commercial                                public or private
                                                   Recreational vehicle and vehicle storage parking37                    N   N   N  N   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Truck storage, outdoor                                                 N   N   N  N   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Generally commercial uses that provide recreation or entertainment     P   P   P  P   P  C   C  N N  N
Recreation and Entertainment Outdoor facility      oriented activities, primarily takes place outdoors
Refer to Sec.                                      Golf course                                                            N   N   C  N   C  C   P  N N  N
10-8-3                                             RV Parks short term occupancy (less than 30 calendar days)             N   N   N  N   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   RV Parks long term occupancy (more than 30 calendar days)              N   N   C  C   C  C   C  N N  N
                                                   Non-vehicle camping (tents) in RV Park (no more than 14 days)          N   N   C  C   C  C   C  N N  N
                                                   Tent campground                                                        N   N   C  C   C  C   C  N N  N
                                                   (no more than 14 days)
                                                   Miniature golf course and accessory recreation                         C   C   N  P   C  N   C  N N  N
                                                   Firms involved in the sale, lease or rent of new or used products to
                                                   the general public…they may also provide personal services or        C   P   C  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   entertainment, or provide product repair or services for consumer and
Sales and Service                                  business goods
Refer to Sec.                                      Sales and service, large, footprint greater than 100,000 sq. ft.       C   P   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
10-8-4 34                                          Adult oriented business                                                N   N   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Amusement, commercial indoor                                           C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Animal clinic or pet hospital, no outdoor pens                         C   C   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Animal clinic or pet hospital, with outdoor pens                       C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Antique or collectible shop                                            P   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Art supply store                                                       P   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Barber or beauty shop                                                  P   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Bakery or confectionery shop, retail sales                             P   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Camera shop                                                            P   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Camping supply store in RV Park                                        N   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Carwash                                                                C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Clothing                                                               C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Club, private                                                          C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Convenience store                                                      C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Dairy products or ice cream                                            C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Dancehall or nightclub                                                 C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Department or discount store                                           C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Drug store or pharmacy                                                 C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Dry cleaner                                                            C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Florist shop                                                           C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Furniture or appliance store                                           C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Garden shop, plant sales, nursery                                      C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Grocery store                                                          C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Handicraft and art object sale                                         C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Hardware store                                                         C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Hobby shop                                                             C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Kennel                                                                 N   P   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Laundromat                                                             C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Lithographer or print shop                                             C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Locksmith or key shop                                                  C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Maintenance or repair service for buildings                            C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Medical clinics and medical equipment                                  C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Mortuary                                                               C   P   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Music store                                                            C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Package liquor store                                                   State controlled Land Use
                                                   Pawn shop                                                              C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Personal custom services such as milliner, tailor, etc.                C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Pet shop for small animals, bird, fish                                 C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Provisioning and recreational sporting goods sales                     C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Radio or television transmitting stations, commercial                  C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Railroad or bus passenger station                                      C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Repair of appliances, TV, radios                                       C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Restaurant or cafeteria                                                C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Shoe, boot, saddle, or other leather goods sale and repair             C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Storage warehouse                                                      N   N   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Studio, decorator, and display                                         C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Studio, health, exercise, massage, reducing or similar service         C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Studio, photographer, artist, music, dance, and drama                  C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Tavern                                                                 N   C   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Tennis or swim club, private                                           C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Theaters                                                               C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Trailer and mobile home sales                                          N   C   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Vehicle parts sales, new or reconditioned, indoor                      C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Vehicle sales                                                          C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Welding or machine shop                                                C   P   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
Storage, Self Service                              Uses providing storage areas for individual or business uses           N   N   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
Refer to Sec.                                      Commercial storage unit                                                N   N   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
10-8-5
Storage, Outdoor                                   Non-retail or industrial trade, the storage of merchandise inventory,
Refer to Sec.                                      and the storage of bulk materials such as sand, gravel, and other      N   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
10-8-6                                             building materials
Vehicle Repair                                     Service to passenger vehicles, light and medium trucks and other motor
Refer to Sec.                                      vehicles such as motorcycles, boats and recreational                   N   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
10-8-7                                             vehicles…generally, the customer does not wait at the site while the
                                                   service or repair is being performed
                                                   Services to motor vehicles where the driver or passengers generally    N   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
Vehicle Service                                    wait in the car or nearby while the service is performed
Refer to Sec.                                      Gasoline service station                                               C   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
10-8-8                                             Gasoline, petroleum products storage (home heating exempt) (See        N   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Uniform Fire Code Section 7902)
                                                   Services to the trucking industry, including dispensing of fuel,
Truck Stop or Travel Center                        repair shops, automated washes restaurants, and motels; fuel and       N   P   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   conveniences for travelers all as part of the facility.
Truck Terminal                                     Goods are transferred between trucks, or trucks and railroads.         N   C   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
Industrial Uses
                                                   Firms engaged in the repair or servicing of business or consumer       N   C   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
Industrial Uses                                    machinery, equipment, products or by-products
Industrial Service Refer to Sec.                   Industrial machinery storage, sales, repair                            N   C   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
10-9-1                                             Contractor supply store                                                N   C   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Contractor supply store with outdoor storage                           N   C   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Firms involved in the manufacturing, processing, fabrication,          N   C   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
Manufacturing, Assembly, or Production             packaging, or assembly of goods
Refer to Sec.                                      Light manufacturing processes which do not emit detectable dust, odor,
10-9-2                                             fumes, or gas beyond the boundary of the property of noises above the  N   C   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   ambient level
                                                   Firms involved in the storage, or movement of goods for themselves of  N   C   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
Warehouse, Freight Movement                        other firms
Refer to Sec.                                      Contractors storage yard of heavy equipment                            N   C   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
10-9-3                                             Lumberyard                                                             N   C   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Storage of sand, gravel, earth or stone                                N   C   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Uses that receive solid or liquid wastes from others for disposal on
                                                   the site or for transfer to another location, uses that collect        N   C   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
Waste-Related Use                                  sanitary wastes, or uses that manufacture or produce goods or energy
                                                   from the composting of organic material
                                                   Recycling drop off containers                                          N   C   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Wrecking or salvage yards                                              N   N   N  N   N  N   N  N N  N
Wholesale Sales and Service                        Firms involved in the sale, lease, or rent of products primarily
Refer to Sec.                                      intended for industrial, institutional, or commercial businesses       C   C   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
10-9-4
Other Uses
                                                   Activities that primarily involve raising, producing or keeping crops  N   P   P  P   P  C   C  P P  P
Agriculture Refer to Sec.                          or animals
10-11-1                                            Gardening – The cultivation or care of fruits, vegetables or flowers P   P   P  P   P  P   P  P P  P
                                                   for non commercial purposes.
Animal Slaughteringand/or Processing                                                                                     N   N   N  N   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   Facilities for the landing and takeoff of flying equipment, arrival
Passenger Terminals                                and departure of vehicles, including loading and unloading areas for   N   C   N  C   N  C   N  N N  N
                                                   passengers, cargo, or freight
Detention Facilities                               Facilities for the judicially required detention or incarceration of   N   N   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   people
ResidentialPrograms for Drug & Alcohol Treatment                                                                         N   N   N  C   C  N   N  N N  N
Alternative or Post Incarceratio n Facilities                                                                            N   N   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
Mineral Resource Production, Processing, Storage   Mining or extraction of mineral or aggregate resources from the ground N   N   N  C   N  N   N  N N  N
                                                   for off-site use
Rail Lines                                         Railroad tracks and lines for the movement of trains                   N   C   C  C   N  N   N  N N  N
 
28   For specific development regulations regarding structures where the
occupancy exceeds the maximum occupancy allowed by the base zoning district see
section
10-7-1D.
29   New residential living (including the addition of dwelling units) is
conditionally permitted only when floor space adjacent to the street or front
of the building is comprised of commercial uses; the residential use is limited
to space within the building or internal to the project. Renovation of existing
residential properties does not require a Conditional Use Permit so long as the
number of residential units(s) does not increase beyond the number that
currently exists.
30   “Family Caregiver” as defined by State law and administrative regulations.
The maximum number of clients (children or elder) in a family daycare are as
established by the State. In 2000, the number was eight (with no more than two
being under the age of 2). If State regulations change this number; this code
is to reflect current State law or regulations.
31   Family Group Day Care as defined by State law and administrative
regulations. In 2000, the maximum number of clients was sixteen persons (no
more than four under the age of 2) with two caregivers onsite. This category,
however in this Title does not establish a maximum number of clients. The
maximum is to be determined as a part of the Use Permit review process.
32   Uses providing care, protection, and education for children on a regular
basis away from primary residence for less than 24 hours per day.
33   monopoles only.
34   No more than 15% of industrial and manufacturing space shall be used for
any combination of retail sales, showroom, or office space. Items offered for
sale must be manufactured in the respective industrial facilities.
35   The preparation of products, including laboratories, related to medical,
dental, or optical use.
36   An office for a business that is a wholesale business is permitted as an
“office,” but the warehousing of products, storage of inventory, or similar
warehousing uses are not permitted.
37   Does not include overnight recreational use.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-09, 7-20-2022)
10-17-3: RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE TYPES:
   A.   Commercial Zoning Districts: Residential uses for which a conditional
use permit has been approved may be constructed in conformance with the
equivalent residential zoning districts identified in this section. Refer to
Table 10-17-2.
      1.   CC: Residential equivalent zoning district shall be consistent with
the highest intensity residential use.
      2.   CG: Residential use allowed consistent with requirements for
residential districts allowing multiple unit structures.
      3.   New household living (including the addition of dwelling units) is
conditionally permitted only when floor space adjacent to the street or front
of the building is comprised of commercial uses; the residential use is limited
to space within the building or internal to the project. Renovation of existing
residential properties does not require a Conditional Use Permit so long as the
number of residential units(s) does not increase beyond the number that
currently exists.
   B.   Industrial Zoning Districts: Mobile homes and other types of dwelling
units used as on-site housing for security guards or caretakers may be allowed
in industrial zoning district if reviewed and approved in accordance with the
conditional use permit procedures of
Chapter 10-49. Only one such dwelling shall be allowed per lot. No other
residential uses are permitted in an industrial zoning district. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
10-17-4: ACCESSORY USES: BUSINESS AND OTHER ZONING DISTRICTS:
Accessory uses shall be permitted within districts if the establishment of the
use or construction of a structure for the accessory use complies with the Site
Development standards of
Chapter 10-18. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-17-5: TEMPORARY USES: BUSINESS AND OTHER ZONING DISTRICTS:
Temporary uses shall be permitted within Business and Other Zoning Districts
for a period not to exceed twelve calendar months in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and Site Development Standards of
Chapter 10-18. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 18
SITE DEVELOPMENT: BUSINESS AND OTHER ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-18-1: Site Development Standards Established
10-18-2: Height
10-18-1: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS ESTABLISHED:
Table 10-18-1  lists the site development standards that apply within
commercial and industrial zoning districts. These standards are “base”
standards, not entitlements. Other regulations of the Land Use Regulations,
including the Supplemental Regulations of Article III, may impose greater
restrictions. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
Table 10-18-1: Business Development District Site Development Standards
Business and Other Zoning District Site Development Standards
Non-Residential Uses CC CG CGC HT IND RPD PUB REC A FR OSC
Business and Other Zoning District Site Development Standards
Non-Residential Uses      CC  CG   CGC  HT   IND  RPD  PUB  REC  A    FR   OSC
LOT SETBACKS
Primary uses and structures
The following are standards that may be adjusted as a part of the design review
permit, only when a superior design and development product is provided.
Building setbacks shall be consistent with surrounding and adjacent development
setbacks or to continue a development pattern. During Design Review permitting,
the Planning Commission shall utilize setbacks between the road right-of-way
and parking lots for buildings, landscaping and other development amenities.
Parking setback: Minimum
setback between property  30  150  30   200  50   20   30   30   100  30   30
line and parking, feet
38,39
Front yard, feet          0   150  30   200  50   30   3040 3041 3041 30   30
Side yard/except when     0/  5    5    5    5    10   0-25 20-  0    50   50
adjacent to residential   10                                50
Corner lots, feet         0/0 5-25 5-25 5-25 5-25 30   8    8-20 0    20   20
Rear yard, feet           0   10   10   10   5    30   0-25 20-  0    30   30
                                                            50
Setback from US Highway   NA  150  30   200  150  150  150  150  0    150  150
89/9140
Accessory uses and structures
All setbacks for an accessory use and structures shall be the same as for
primary use and structure.
MAXIMUM HEIGHT (For measuring height see
Chapter 10-62 )
Principal uses, feet      35  4042 4042 40   5042 35   35   35   35   35   20
Accessory uses, feet,     35  40   40   40   50   35   35   35   3542 35   35
maximum height
FENCES AND WALLS (Height in feet)43
Front and corner lots,    0   0    0    5    0    0    0    0    5    4    5
feet44 
Side and rear property    6   6    6    6    8    6    6    6    6    6    6
lines, feet 45,46,47,48 
DENSITY
Maximum residential       NA  NA   NA   NA   NA   .5/  NA   NA   1/40 1/40 1/40
density (unit/ac) 48                              1 ac           ac   ac   ac
 
   REFERENCE LEGEND FOR ZONING DISTRICTS
   CC, Commercial City Center          PUB, Public
   CG, Commercial General          REC, Recreation
   CGC, Commercial General Cluster       A, Agricultural
   HT, Historic Tourism             FR, Forest Recreation
   RPD, Recreational Planned Development    OSC, Open Space Conservation
   IND, Industrial
38   The Planning Commission may consider reduction of this by not more than
25% provided the proponent’s provides landscaping with at least 50% more plants
and at least 50% increase in plant size than required for the separation of
street and parking.
39   See section
10-39-12 for additional parking setback regulations.
40    See section
10-38-4F
41    For agricultural buildings and structures only. Does not include fields
and pastures.
42    Heights over the feet listed may be permitted subject to approval of a
conditional use permit.
43   No fence shall exceed 3 feet in height within the site distance triangle.
44   Razor wire, barbed wire (except for livestock fences), or other security
features shall not be allowed in the front setback.
45   Razor wire, barbed wire (except for livestock fences), or other security
features shall be positioned facing into the property and shall not cross or
extend over property lines.
46   Three strand security wire at top of fence. Must be vertical or angled
inwards to the property. Must be approved by the City Manager on the basis of
the security purpose; property protection inventory protection; personnel
security. No permitted for undeveloped land.
47   All residential uses require approval of a conditional use permit.
48   No fence shall exceed 6 feet in height when abutting residential uses.
10-18-2: HEIGHT:
The maximum height standards of
Table 10-18-1 apply to all primary and accessory uses allowed within commercial
and industrial districts, except that the following may exceed the stated
limits: water towers; utility poles; solar collectors, louvers and reflectors;
penthouse structures for elevators, stairways, HVAC facilities or similar
equipment; skylights; steeples; flagpoles; chimneys; silos; barns; sport
towers, amusement rides, or other similar structures. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
CHAPTERS 19 - 22
RESERVED
ARTICLE IV. OVERLAY ZONING
CHAPTER 23
OVERLAY ZONES ESTABLISHED
SECTION:
10-23-1: Overlay Zones Established
10-23-2: Use Of Overlay Zones
10-23-1: OVERLAY ZONES ESTABLISHED:
The following overlay zones are established for application with base zone:
   A.   SP, Drinking Water Source Protection overlay zone,
Chapter 10-25 .
   B.   FH, Flood Hazard overlay zone,
Chapter 10-26  
   C.   HD, Historic District overlay zone,
Chapter 10-27 .
   D.   FS Wildland/Urban Interface Fire Safety overlay zone.
Chapter 10-28 .
   E.   GF, Greenfield overlay zone,
Chapter 10-29 .
   F.   RPD, Recreational Planned Development overlay zone, Chapter 10. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-23-2: USE OF OVERLAY ZONES:
   A.   Nomenclature: An Overlay Zoning classification is appended to a base
zoning district so that the lands are classified as Base Zoning District-
Overlay District. As an example, property in the Commercial City Center (CC)
may be designated with a Historic District Overlay to form a zone titled (CC-
HD).
   B.   Multiple Overlay Districts: Property within the City may be included in
more than one Overlay District. For example, a property may be within the Base
Zoning District of Residential-Critical Area and may also be designated as a
Drinking Water Source Protection Overlay and a Greenfield Overlay. In this
case, the property would be enumerated as RCA-SP-GF. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 24
RESERVED
CHAPTER 25
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION (SP) OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
10-25-1: Purpose
10-25-2: Establishment Of Drinking Water Source Protection zones
10-25-3: Prohibited Uses
10-25-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the Drinking Water Source Protection Overlay Zone is to ensure
the provision of a safe and sanitary drinking water supply for Wellsville City
by establishing drinking water source protection zones surrounding the
wellheads and springs for all wells and springs which are the supply sources
for the Wellsville City water system, and by the designation and regulation of
property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such zones. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-25-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION ZONES:
In accordance with Utah State Regulations R309-600, the following source
protection zones are hereby established:
   A.   Zone 1: The area within one hundred feet (100’) of radius from the
wellhead or spring.
   B.   Zone 2: The area within a two hundred fifty (250)-day groundwater time
of travel to the wellhead or spring, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which
supplies water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater divide, whichever
is closer.
   C.   Zone 3: The area within a three (3)-year groundwater time of travel to
the wellhead or spring, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies water to
the groundwater source, or the groundwater divide, whichever is closer.
   D.   Zone 4: The area within a fifteen (15)-year groundwater time of travel
to the wellhead or spring, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies water
to the groundwater source, or the groundwater divide, whichever is closer.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-25-3: PROHIBITED USES:
Excepting uses legally established before the effective date of this Chapter
and used continuously and in the same manner thereafter, the following uses are
prohibited:
   A.   Zones 1 and 2.
      1.   Sanitary sewer lines within one hundred fifty feet (150') of a
wellhead or spring collection area;
      2.   Underground storage tanks;
      3.   Storm water infiltration structures;
      4.   Geothermal wells;
      5.   Application of Fertilizers, herbicides or pesticides;
      6.   Sanitary landfills; and
      7.   Any pollution source as defined herein or in R309-600 of the Utah
Administrative Code.
   B.   Zones 1, 2, and 3. Agriculture industries including, but not limited
to, intensive feeding operations such as feed lots, dairies, fur breeding
operations, poultry farms, etc.
   C.   All Zones:
      1.   Surface use, storage, or dumping of hazardous waste or material,
expressly including industrial or commercial uses of agricultural pesticides
(except when such pesticides are used in farming applications within strict
compliance of the manufacturer’s recommendations of use);
      2.   Hazardous waste or material disposal sites;
      3.   Septic tanks/drainfield systems;
      4.   Geothermal wells deeper than thirty feet (30’);
      5.   Manure piles;
      6.   Uncontrolled salt piles; and
      7.   Class V underground injection wells. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 26
FLOOD HAZARD (FH) OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
10-26-1: Purpose
10-26-2: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
10-26-3: Definitions
10-26-4: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
10-26-5: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
10-26-6: Compliance
10-26-7: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-26-8: Interpretation
10-26-9: Establishment Of Development Permit
10-26-10: City Engineer - Appointment
10-26-11: City Engineer - Duties
10-26-12: Variances - Procedure In Relation To The FH Overlay District
10-26-13: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
10-26-14: Construction Materials And Methods
10-26-15: Development Proposals
10-26-16: Specific Standards
10-26-17: Floodways
10-26-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately flood proofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-26-2: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in increased
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring the uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
   D.   Controlling, filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-26-3: DEFINITIONS:
In conformance with the requirements of the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA), definitions are set forth in
Chapter 10-62 , which expressly apply to the provisions of this chapter. Unless
specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have as defined first,
in this title, and second, as defined in common usage, and to give this chapter
its most reasonable application. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-26-4: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the City. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-26-5: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the scientific and engineering report entitled “The Flood
Insurance Study for the City of Wellsville, with an accompanying Flood
Insurance Rate Map is adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-26-6: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-26-7: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easement, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
10-26-8: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body;
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes;
   D.   Warning and disclaimer of liability;
   E.   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may increase by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not imply
that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted within
such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of the City, any officer or employee thereof, or
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-26-9: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard. Application for a development
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the City Engineer and may include,
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or
proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the
location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required;
   A.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all structures;
   B.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has been
modified or constructed to prevent flood intrusion;
   C.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the flood prevention methods for any nonresidential structure meet the flood
hazard reduction criteria of
10-26-13  and
10-26-14 .
   D.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-26-10: CITY ENGINEER – APPOINTMENT:
The City Engineer is appointed to administer and implement this chapter by
granting or denying development permit applications in accordance with its
provisions. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-26-11: CITY ENGINEER – DUTIES:
Duties of the City Engineer shall include, but not limited to:
   A.   Permit Review:
      1.   The City Engineer shall review all development permits to determine
that the permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      2.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from agencies from which prior approval is required;
      3.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
encroachment provisions of Section
10-26-15 (A) are met.
   B.   Use of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with Section
10-26-9 , the City Engineer shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any
base flood elevation data available from a federal, state or other source, in
order to administer Section
10-26-14 (A) and (B).
   C.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
      1.   Obtain from builder’s/owner’s engineer and record the actual
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new substantially improved structures;
      2.   For all new or substantially improved structures to reduce flood
hazard:
         a.   Verify and record the actual elevation as provided (in relation
to mean sea level);
         b.   Maintain the flood proofing certifications required in
Section 10-26-8 (C);
      3.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Alteration of Watercourses:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities, and the State Office of Emergency
Management prior to any alteration or relocation of a water course, and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      2.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      3.   City shall receive appropriate permits form governing agencies.
   E.   Interpretation of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of
the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in Section
10-26-11 . (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-26-12: VARIANCES – PROCEDURE IN RELATION TO THE FH OVERLAY DISTRICT:
   A.   Application for a Hearing: The Board of Adjustment shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variance from the requirements of this chapter.
It shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination made by the City Engineer or any
administrative officer in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
Any aggrieved party who has participated in the administrative process required
within this chapter may have standing to appeal. The procedures shall be as
defined for the Board of Adjustment in
Chapter 10-53 .
   B.   Findings: In addition to the requirements for variances established in
Chapter 10-53 , the board shall consider all technical evaluations, all
relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and
shall substantiate the following findings:
      1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations, for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      8.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      9.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      10.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets, and bridges.
   C.   Conditions: Upon consideration of the above factors and the purpose of
this chapter, the Board of Adjustment may attach conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of the chapter.
   D.   General Standards and Considerations:
      1.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship as defined in
Chapter 10-53  to the applicant; and
         c.   A termination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   E.   Certificate of Approval: Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built
with a lowest floor elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost
of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-26-13: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
In all flood hazard zoning districts the following standards are required:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   B.   All manufactured homes to be placed within a flood hazard zone shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by providing over-
the-top and frame ties to ground anchors. Specific requirements shall be that:
      1.   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations,
with manufactured homes less than fifty feet long requiring one additional tie
per side;
      2.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured homes less
than fifty feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
      3.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of four thousand eight hundred pounds;
      4.   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored; and
      5.   The manufactured home shall be elevated above the base flood level
and anchored to the elevated foundation. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-26-14: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND METHODS:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   B.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   C.   For all new construction and substantial improvements, fully enclosed
areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement
shall either be certified by registered professional engineer or architect or
shall meet or exceed the following minimum criteria: a minimum of two openings
having a total net area of not less than one square inch or every square foot
of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all
openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped
with screens, louvers, or other coverings or devices provided that they permit
the automatic entry and exit of flood waters.
   D.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air-conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
   E.   Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      2.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharge from the
systems into flood waters; and
      3.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-26-15: DEVELOPMENT PROPOSALS:
   A.   All development proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage.
   B.   All development proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   C.   All development proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
   D.   Base flood elevation data shall be provided by developer proposals for
proposed development. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-26-16: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in Sections
10-26-7 (B) or
10-26-10 (B), the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the base flood elevation.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
      1.   Be flood proofed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with wall substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certifications shall be
provided to the official as set forth in Section
10-26-10 (C)(1).
   C.   Manufactured Homes: Manufactured homes shall be anchored in accordance
with Section
10-26-13 (A)(2).
      1.   For new manufactured home parks and manufactured home subdivisions;
for expansions to existing manufactured home parks and manufactured home
subdivisions where the repair, reconstruction or improvements of the streets,
utilities and pads equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the value of the
streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement
has commenced; and for manufactured homes not placed in a manufactured home
park or manufactured home subdivision require that:
         a.   Pads or lots are elevated on compacted fill or on pilings so that
the lowest floor of the manufactured home will be at or above the base flood
level;
         b.   Adequate surface drainage and access for hauler are provided; and
         c.   In the instance of elevation on pilings, that:
            (1)   Lots are large enough to permit steps,
            (2)   Piling foundations are placed in stable soil not more than
ten feet apart as designed by P.E., and
            (3)   Reinforcement is provided for pilings more than six feet
above the ground level.
         d.   No manufactured home shall be placed in floodway, except in an
existing manufactured home park or existing manufactured home subdivision.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-26-17: FLOODWAYS:
Located within areas of special flood hazard established in Section
10-26-7 (B) are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry
debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions
apply:
   A   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development unless certification by a registered
professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that encroachments
shall not result in any increase in flood level during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge;
   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 27
HISTORIC DISTRICT (HD) OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
10-27-1: Purpose
10-27-2: Modifications Of Historic District Boundaries
10-27-3: Recognition Of Individual Structures/Sites Outside Of The Historic
District
10-27-4: Establishment Of A Review Authority Of Historic Districts
10-27-5: Reserved
10-27-6: Design Review Within The HD Overlay Zone
10-27-7: Certificate Of Appropriateness
10-27-8: Standards For Certificate Of Appropriateness
10-27-9: Signs Within The Historic District Overlay Zone
10-27-1: PURPOSE:
The Historic District (HD) Overlay Zone is intended to identify those
properties in the City which are included within the defined boundaries of a
designated National Historic District. The City of Wellsville does not
currently, at the time of adoption of this chapter, designate a historic
district. In the event that the City chooses to form an historic district, this
overlay shall take effect by formal adoption by the City Council. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
10-27-2: MODIFICATIONS OF HISTORIC DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Procedure: The City Council may initiate a survey to include outlying
areas of the district in order to determine the appropriateness of modifying
the district boundaries. The results of the survey for the outlying area(s) as
well as the proposed boundaries shall be submitted to the State Historic
Preservation Office and the National Trust for Historic Preservation for review
and recommendation.
   B.   Adoption: The City Council may modify district boundaries upon
presentation of the results of the survey and any comments from Historic
Preservation Committee and the State Historic Preservation Office. A public
hearing shall be held prior to action by the Council. The City Council may
approve or deny the request for modification of the Center Street National
Historic District. The Council shall enact changes in boundaries by ordinance.
   C.   Findings:
      1.   The district boundaries may be expanded if it is found that a
concentration of historic structures or sites exist in areas neighboring
current boundaries and a recommendation for expansion is received from the
State Historic Preservation Office and/ or the National Trust for Historic
Preservation.
      2.   The district boundaries may be reduced if it is found that such a
reduction is necessary to maintain the status of the overall district. This may
occur if properties within an area of the district have ceased to meet criteria
provided by the State Historic Preservation Office or the National Trust of
Historic Preservation and therefore threaten the overall integrity of the
district.
      3.   Non-contiguous districts may be created if it is found that the area
has a concentration of contributory historic structures or sites and a
recommendation for creation is received from the Historic Preservation
Committee and the State Historic Preservation Office. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-27-3: RECOGNITION OF INDIVIDUAL STRUCTURES/SITES OUTSIDE OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT:
Individual structures and sites outside of the Historic District may apply for
individual nomination to the National Register of Historic Places. The State
Historic Preservation Office reviews all requests for individual nomination.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-27-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF A REVIEW AUTHORITY OF HISTORIC DISTRICT:
Upon establishment of a Historic District, the City Council may assign the
duties of
Chapter 10-27 to the Historic Preservation Committee or the Planning
Commission. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-27-5: RESERVED:
10-27-6: DESIGN REVIEW WITHIN THE HD OVERLAY ZONE:
   A.   New Construction:
      1.   New construction within the HD Overlay Zone shall be subject to
obtaining a Certificate of Appropriateness and a Design Review permit prior to
the issuance of a building permit.
      2.   Prior to the design review hearing, the project shall be presented
to the Historic Preservation Committee for its recommendation.
      3.   New construction is subject to all requirements of the Uniform
Building Code, Public Works Standards and Specifications, and development
requirements of other appropriate departments.
   B.   Remodeling, Renovation, Restoration:
      1.   Interior changes are not subject to design review;
      2.   Exterior changes:
         a.   If the structure is a “landmark” historic structure, the exterior
changes shall be presented to the Historic Preservation Committee for its
Certificate of Appropriateness.
         b.   If the structure is “contributory,” routine maintenance and
upkeep, repainting or replacing roofing, shutters, trim, or similar decorative
items with similar or lie materials shall not require presentation to the
Historic Preservation Committee under the procedures in Section
10-27-7(B)(1).
         c.   If the structure is “contributory” or “non-contributory” and the
changes involve additions, renovation, exterior remodeling, or major changes in
color, material, texture, or size, the project shall be presented to the
Historic Preservation Committee for a Certificate of Appropriateness prior to
the issuance of a building permit or commencement of work, if no permit is
required. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-27-7: CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS:
   A.   Required: No alteration in the exterior appearance of a structure, site
or streetscape affecting a property or properties within the HD Overlay
District shall be made or permitted to be made without the issuance of a
Certificate of Appropriateness by the Historic Preservation Committee or
Planning Commission as applicable pursuant to Section
10-27-7(B). Certificates of Appropriateness shall be required for:
      1.   New construction;
      2.   Any demolition;
      3.   Any exterior construction needing a building permit, unless
otherwise determined by the Planning Commission to be eligible for
administrative review;
      4.   Removal or replacement/alteration of architectural detailing, such
as porch columns, railing, window moldings, window sash replacements, cornices;
      5.   Construction of additions;
      6.   Construction or alterations of accessory structures, such as garages
and sheds;
      7.   Construction or alterations of porches and decks;
      8.   Exterior masonry work including, and not limited to, sandblasting
and chemical cleaning;
      9.   Installation of new siding and roof materials;
      10.   Alteration of streetscape features including, and not limited to,
curb, gutter and canals;
      11.   Installation or alteration of any exterior sign; and
      12.   Construction or alterations of site features including, and not
limited to, fences and retaining walls.
   B.   Procedure:
      1.   All projects shall be reviewed by the Historic Preservation
Committee prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Appropriateness. An
application for a Certificate of Appropriateness shall be made on the
appropriate application and submitted to the City. The City shall determine the
completeness of the application to be considered by the Historic Preservation
Committee.
      2.   The Committee may approve, conditionally approve or deny the
application after reviewing all materials submitted, the recommendation of the
Planning Commission and conducting a field inspection if necessary.
Applications shall be reviewed to determine consistency with design standards
provided in the City of Wellsville Historic District Design Standards and the
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation. The Committee shall
make written findings of all its decisions.
   C.   Application Materials: In addition to the appropriate application form,
the application shall include all documentation required by the Historic
Preservation Committee.
   D.   Public Notice: Certificates of Appropriateness are processed under the
provisions of Chapter 10-63 and the requirements of this chapter. Applications
for Certificates of Appropriateness are heard before the Historic Preservation
Committee.
   E.   Appeals:
      1.   All administrative decisions may be appealed to the Historic
Preservation Committee within fifteen (15) days following the administrative
decision.
      2.   Decisions of the Historic Preservation Committee may be appealed to
the Planning Commission within fifteen (15) days following the Committee’s
decision. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-27-8: STANDARDS FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS:
   A.   Adoption of the City of Wellsville Historic District Design Standards:
Prior to the adoption of the Historic District Design Standards, the Historic
Preservation Committee shall utilize the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards
for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings as
standards for project review.
   B.   Review of Certificates of Appropriateness: In approving an application
for a Certificate of Appropriateness, the Historic Preservation Committee shall
find that the project substantially complies with standards outlined in the
Historic District Design Standards and the Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic
Buildings, including the following standards:
      1.   A property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed in a
new use that requires minimal change to the defining characteristics of the
building and its site and environment.
      2.   The historic character of a property shall be retained and
preserved. The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and
spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.
      3.   Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place, and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development,
such as adding conjectural features or architectural elements from other
buildings, shall not be undertaken.
      4.   Most properties change over time; those changes that have acquired
historic significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved.
      5.   Distinctive features, finishes, and construction techniques or
examples of craftsmanship that characterize a historic property shall be
preserved.
      6.   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired or restored rather
than replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of
distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color,
texture, and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement
of missing features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or
pictorial evidence.
      7.   Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that cause
damage to historic materials shall not be used. The surface cleaning of
structures, if appropriate, shall be undertaken using the gentlest means
possible.
      8.   Significant archeological resources affected by a project shall be
protected and preserved. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation
measures shall be undertaken.
      9.   New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new
work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the property and its environment.
      10.   New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-27-9: SIGNS WITHIN THE HISTORIC DISTRICT OVERLAY ZONE:
   A.   Signs within Residential Areas of the Historic District Overlay Zone
Sign requirements for businesses in the residential areas of the Historic
District are subject to the following standards and specifications and are not
subject to the standards in
Chapter 10-40, Signs.
      1.   Signs shall be single sided and located on private property;
      2.   Signs shall be flush mounted on the structure or fence, as approved
by the Historic Preservation Committee and shall not exceed two feet in sign
area.
      3.   Signs may be illuminated by a single external light source mounted
in the ground. The light shall be shielded so that the source of light is not
visible from adjoining property or a street.
   B.   Signs within Commercial Areas of the Historic District Overlay Zone:
      1.   No pole mounted signs shall be permitted within the commercial
portions of the Historic District.
   C.   Signs Displaying Historic Information of Site or Structure: Signs
displaying historic information of site or structure are subject to the
standards to be identified in the City of Wellsville Historic District Design
Standards and are not subject to the standards in
Chapter 10-40, Signs. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 28
WILDLAND/URBAN INTERFACE FIRE SAFETY (FS) OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
10-28-1: Scope
10-28-2: Requirements For Submission Of A Fire Prevention And Control Plan
10-28-3: Access
10-28-4: Emergency Water Supplies
10-28-5: Structural Design And Construction
10-28-6: Manufactured Homes
10-28-7: Vegetative Clearance
10-28-8: Storage Of Firewood And Combustible Materials
10-28-9: Fireworks
10-28-1: SCOPE:
This code applies to all development activities including: Recreational Planned
Developments, Recreational Resorts, and Subdivisions in the Urban/Wildland
Interface lands, and structures not included within a platted development. The
specific needs for fire prevention in these high-fire prone areas are provided
in addition to other building requirements. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-28-2: REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMISSION OF A FIRE PREVENTION AND CONTROL PLAN:
See
10-34-9 Development Standards for Lands with Wildfire Threats. All subdivisions
and development project shall submit a Fire Prevention and Control Plan as part
of the project approval. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-28-3: ACCESS:
   A.   Driveways: Driveways shall be provided when any portion of an exterior
wall of the first story of a building is located more than one hundred fifty
feet (150') from a fire apparatus access road. Driveways shall provide a
minimum unobstructed width of twelve feet (12') and a minimum unobstructed
height of thirteen feet (13') six inches (6"). Driveways in excess of one
hundred fifty feet (150') in length shall be installed and maintained with
turnarounds. Driveways in excess of two hundred feet (200') in length and less
than twenty feet (20') in width shall be installed and maintained with turnouts
in addition to turnarounds. A driveway shall not serve in excess of five (5)
dwelling units. Driveway turnarounds shall have inside turning radii of not
less than thirty feet (30') and outside turning radii of not less than forty-
five feet (45'). Driveways that connect with a road or roads at more than one
(1) point may be considered as having a turnaround if all changes of direction
meet the radii requirements for driveway turnarounds. Driveways surfaces and
base shall be sufficient to support the weight of fire prevention apparatus as
approved by the fire chief.
   B.   Grade: The gradient for fire apparatus access roads and driveways shall
not exceed the maximum approved by the fire chief. It will be up to the fire
chief to ascertain the maximum grade based on specifications of the fire
equipment providing fire protection, provided that the maximum grade shall not
exceed ten percent (10%) unless a steeper grade is specifically approved and
record in a letter by the fire chief. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-28-4: EMERGENCY WATER SUPPLIES:
   A.   Notwithstanding Section 508 and Appendix B of the International Fire
Code and because of a greater exposure of fire in Urban Interface areas, an
approved water supply capable of supplying the required fire flow for fire
protection shall be provided to all premises upon which facilities, buildings,
structures or portions of buildings are hereafter constructed or moved into
clustered large scale developments in the Urban Interface.
   B.   The minimum fire flow and flow duration shall meet the requirements of
the International Fire Code.
   C.   A reduction in required fire flow of up to seventy five percent (75%),
as approved by the Fire Chief, is allowed when the building is provided with a
fire extinguishing system in accordance with Appendix B sections B103 and B105
of the International Fire Code, and when an adequate vegetation clearance in
accordance with Section
10-28-7 of the City of Wellsville Code is maintained.
   D.   The above restrictions shall not apply to any dwelling outside of a
legally existing subdivision which is in the Urban Interface and is provided
with a fire break as defined herein and as such firebreak is maintained by the
owner - occupant. Also excluded are any "B” “E”, “F", “M”, and “S-2"
occupancies under nine hundred (900) square feet, and farm buildings.
   E.   Water storage supplies shall likewise be calculated to provide the
required daily culinary supply for each building lot plus the required fire
flow for the building having the greatest demand.
   F.   The fire flow requirements of this section shall not be applied in
developments approved prior to establishment of zoning regulations. Facilities,
buildings, and structures constructed or expanded after the effective date of
this paragraph, in said developments, which fail to comply with the emergency
water requirements of this section shall not exceed fifteen hundred (1500)
square feet of Floor Area as defined by the International Fire Code unless a
fire extinguishing system in accordance with Section 904 of the International
Fire Code or listed automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section
10-28-5B is installed or adequate fire flow is provided. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-28-5: STRUCTURAL DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
The International Fire Code is hereby amended to include the following
provisions:
   A.   Structures shall not be constructed on slopes exceeding twenty percent
(20%).
   B.   Homes shall meet all National Fire Protection Association (N.F.P.A.)
13D requirements, modified as follows:
      1.   Provide Fire Sprinklers in all garages, and mechanical (furnace)
rooms.
      2.   Provide Fire Sprinklers in covered decks and walkways greater than
four feet (4') wide.
      3.   All remodeling of existing homes shall provide fire protection
devices consistent with or superior to the fire protection standards of the
existing nonconforming use.
   C.   Roof Coverings: Roof coverings shall be constructed of UL listed Class
A or B materials in accordance with the International Building Code or shall be
constructed of an approved non-combustible roof covering. No wood roof
coverings are permitted in the Urban Interface. For roof coverings where the
profile allows a space between the roof covering and roof decking, the space at
the eave ends shall be fire stopped to preclude entry of flames or embers. When
one-half or more of an existing non-conforming roof covering needs to be
replaced, the entire roof shall be brought into compliance with this code.
   D.   Protection Of Eaves: Combustible eaves, facias and soffits shall be
enclosed with solid materials with a minimum thickness of 3/4 inch. No exposed
rafter tails shall be permitted unless constructed of heavy timber materials.
   E.   Gutters And Down Spouts: Gutters and down spouts shall be constructed
of noncombustible material.
   F.   Exterior Walls: The exterior side walls of buildings or structures
shall be constructed with approved non-combustible materials or with materials
approved for a minimum of 1-hour fire-resistance rated construction installed
over an approved noncombustible backing. Such material shall extend from the
top of the foundation to the underside of the roof sheathing. When one-half or
more of an existing nonconforming exterior wall needs to be replaced, the
entire exterior wall shall be brought into compliance with this code.
Exception: Heavy timber or log wall construction, with a minimum thickness of 8
inches.
   G.   Unenclosed Underfloor Protection: Buildings or structures shall have
all underfloor areas enclosed to the ground, with exterior walls in accordance
with Section
10-28-5F.
Exception: Complete enclosure may be omitted where the underside of all exposed
floors and all exposed structural columns, beams and supporting walls are
protected as required for exterior 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction or
heavy timber construction, or are protected by an approved outside sprinkler
system.
   H.   Appendages And Projections: Unenclosed accessory structures attached to
buildings with habitable spaces and projections, such as decks, shall be a
minimum of 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction, heavy timber
construction, constructed with approved noncombustible materials, or protected
by an approved outside sprinkler system. When the attached structure is located
and constructed so that the structure or any portion thereof projects over a
descending slope surface greater than ten percent (10%), the area below the
structure shall have all underfloor areas enclosed to within six inches (6") of
the ground, with exterior wall construction in accordance with Section
10-28-5 F or shall be protected by an approved outside sprinkler system.
   I.   Exterior Glazing: Exterior windows, window walls and glazed doors,
windows within exterior doors, and skylights shall be tempered glass,
multilayered glazed panels, glass block or have a fire-protection rating of not
less than twenty (20) minutes.
   J.   Exterior Doors: Exterior doors shall be approved non-combustible
construction, solid core wood not less than 1 3/4-inches thick or have a fire
protection rating of not less than twenty (20) minutes. Windows within doors
and glazed doors shall be in accordance with Section
10-28-5 I.J.
Exception: Vehicle access doors.
   K.   Vents: Attic ventilation openings, foundation or underfloor vents or
other ventilation openings in vertical exterior walls and vents through roofs
shall not exceed one hundred forty four (144) square inches each. Such vents
shall be covered with noncombustible corrosion-resistant mesh with openings not
to exceed 1/4 inch. Attic ventilation openings shall not be located in soffits,
in eave overhangs, between rafters at eaves, or in other overhang areas. Gable
end and dormer vents shall be located at least 10 feet from property lines.
Underfloor ventilation openings shall be located as close to grade as
practical.
   L.   Detached Accessory Structures: Detached accessory structures located
less than fifty feet (50') from a building containing habitable space shall
have exterior walls constructed with materials approved for a minimum of 1-hour
fire-resistance-rated construction, heavy timber, log wall construction, or
constructed with approved noncombustible material on the exterior side. When
the detached structure is located and constructed so that the structure or any
portion thereof projects over a descending slope surface greater than 10
percent, the area below the structure shall have all underfloor areas enclosed
to within 6 inches of the ground, with exterior wall construction in accordance
with Section 10-31-50 F or underfloor protection in accordance with Section
10-28-5 G.
Exception: The enclosure may be omitted where the underside of all exposed
floors and all exposed structural columns, beams and supporting walls are
protected as required for exterior 1-hour fire resistance-rated construction or
heavy timber construction. See Section
10-28-5 C for roof requirements. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-28-6: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
Where manufactured homes are permitted, they shall meet all applicable
construction and safety standards and shall be provided with full skirting
constructed of noncombustible materials. Any porches and sun-decks shall be
constructed of non-combustible or listed fire-retardant materials. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
10-28-7: VEGETATIVE CLEARANCE:
   A.   Notification: The City of Wellsville Fire Chief shall be notified, in
writing, and a site plan submitted for approval before development or
construction of any structure commences so that vegetation can be evaluated and
ample clearance around structure(s) can be determined.
   B.   Minimum Requirements. Unless otherwise specified by the Fire Chief,
minimum vegetation clearance will be as follows:
      1.   Groups of dwelling (cluster). Each cluster shall be located to
provide a fire break of a width of one hundred feet (100') or more, depending
on topography and fuels, constructed around the development. This area shall be
free of all dead and downed material. Mature trees within the break shall be
pruned up to a minimum of six feet above the ground so that no limbs are
contiguous with ground fuels. The remaining ground vegetation shall be trimmed
not to exceed six inches (6") in height.
      2.   Structures. Vegetation shall be cleared and maintained to a maximum
of 4 in. in height within thirty feet (30') of the structure and a maximum of
eighteen inches (18") from thirty (30) to fifty feet (50'). Areas beyond fifty
feet (50') shall be determined by the Fire Chief.
      3.   Trees. Trees within fifty feet (50') of a structure shall comply
with the following:
         a.   Canopies shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') apart.
         b.   Canopies shall not be permitted to extend within ten feet (10')
from under eaves, decks, or balconies or chimney openings.
         c.   Trees within fifty feet (50') of a structure shall be pruned to a
height of ten feet (10') above the ground, trees less than thirty five feet
(35') in height shall have the entire lower half pruned.
         d.   All trees within fifty feet (50') of a structure shall be kept
free of dead or dying materials.
      4.   Dead Vegetative Material. All dead vegetative material shall be
removed and maintained clear within fifty feet (50') of any structure.
      5.   Propane or Fuel tanks. Ground vegetation around tanks shall be
maintained no higher than four inches (4") for a minimum of a ten feet (10')
radius. Trees and brush shall be trimmed maintaining a minimum of three feet
(3') above the tank.
      6.   Fire Hydrants. Vegetation or other obstructions shall be maintained
below 4 inches high. Clearance shall be provided three feet on all sides of the
hydrant and extend to the roadway.
      7.   Disposal of Flammable Vegetation and Fuels. Disposal, including
chipping, burying, or removal to an approved landfill shall be completed prior
to final inspection of a building permit. Open Burning of these materials is
prohibited.
   C.   Recreational Fires:
      1.   Recreational open fires shall be located a minimum of twenty five
feet (25') from a structure or combustible material unless contained in an
approved barbecue pit located a minimum of ten feet (10') from combustible
foliage, walls, or roofs. An opening in the overhead canopy shall be provided
to prevent the pyrolysis of the foliage.
      2.   The pile of fuel to be burned in the fire area for recreational
fires shall not be larger than three feet (3') in diameter and two feet (2')
high.
      3.   A garden hose connected to a water supply or other approved fire-
extinguishing equipment shall be readily available for use at recreational
fires.
      4.   Recreational fires are required to be constantly attended by a
person knowledgeable in the use of the fire- extinguishing equipment. The
attendant shall supervise the burning material until the fire has been
extinguished. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-28-8: STORAGE OF FIREWOOD AND COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS:
   A.   Firewood and combustible material shall not be stored in unenclosed
spaces beneath buildings or structures, or on decks or under eaves, canopies or
other projections or overhangs. When required by the Fire Chief, storage of
firewood and combustible material stored in the defensible space shall be
located a minimum of thirty (30) feet from structures and separated from the
crown of trees by a minimum horizontal distance of fifteen (15) feet.
   B.   Storage for off-site use. Firewood and combustible materials not for
consumption on the premises shall be stored so as to not pose a hazard. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-28-9: FIREWORKS:
Fireworks shall not be used or possessed within the Urban-Wildland Interface
Overlay Zone. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 29
GREENFIELD (GF) OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
10-29-1: Purpose
10-29-2: Greenfield Overlay Zone Established
10-29-1: PURPOSE:
The Greenfield Overlay zone is intended to provide complete residential
neighborhoods in undeveloped land; neighborhoods with parks and trails
connecting churches, schools, employment, and conveniences. The GF Overlay
zones will avoid development on critical lands, preserve the qualities of the
land, and provide diversity of residents, housing types, and income levels. The
Greenfield Overlay Zone is provided for development in the future as Wellsville
becomes larger and opportunities increase for satellite neighborhoods outside
of the City Center. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2661.png]
 
10-29-2: GREENFIELD OVERLAY ZONE ESTABLISHED:
The Development of Greenfields ensures that undeveloped properties within the
City are planned and developed to provide more complete neighborhood
developments. These developments are intended to be viable and sustainable
residential neighborhoods containing a mix of uses, housing densities and types
catering only to local neighborhoods. Greenfield areas may include
appropriately-scaled neighborhood centers. A foundational purpose of allowing a
mix of uses in GF neighborhoods is to prevent the proliferation of sprawling
near-identical subdivisions, reduce the impact of new development on
infrastructure systems, and allow residents to work, shop, and play closer to
home.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2663.png]
 
The requirements of the GF Overlay are applied in addition to the base zone of
the property. Unless otherwise shown on the General Plan, the GF zone may be
applied in any base residential zone. Specific Development Plans for each area
must be prepared and adopted as an overlay zone amendment by the City Council
prior to development.
Greenfield developments may be initiated by a developer, but an adopted
Specific Plan of the larger area must precede zoning of a development property.
Specific Plans will serve as the guiding master plan approval for properties
with a Greenfield Overlay, ensuring implementation of the concept at the site-
specific level. Specific Plans for GF properties will include:
   A.   A street system plan must be consistent with Wellsville's policies and
standards to extend the city's grid into newly developed areas.
   B.   A connected system of blocks, mini-blocks and off-street pedestrian
ways.
   C.   Land uses and design supportive of transit, existing and proposed.
   D.   Appropriately scaled mixed use neighborhood centers, where local
shopping and services are within a five (5) - ten (10) minute walk of
neighborhood residents.
   E.   A variety of residential densities, so that choices in housing are
provided.
   F.   A variety of housing types and lots sizes within each density category,
to add visual interest and avoid a repetitious sprawl pattern.
   G.   Provision for parks, open spaces and community facilities such as
schools.
   H.   Protection, restoration and enhancement of environmental resources,
such as wetlands.
   I.   Environmental areas planned as amenities to the neighborhoods.
   J.   Design standards consistent with this Code's requirements for complete
and walkable streets, building orientation, architectural detailing, and all
other quality design requirements.
   K.   New design standards as needed to foster innovation and sustainable
development, provided they meet or exceed the performance of Wellsville's
adopted base standards. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 30
RECREATIONAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (RPD)
SECTION:
10-30-1: Purpose
10-30-2: Design Review
10-30-3: Density
10-30-4: Reserved
10-30-5: Minimum Parcel Size
10-30-6: Parking Shall Conform To Code
10-30-7: Signs Shall Conform To Code
10-30-8: Preliminary Development Plan
10-30-9: Planning Commission And City Council Action
10-30-10: Failure To Submit Final Development Plan
10-30-11: Final Development Plan
10-30-12: City Council Action On Final Development Plan
10-30-13: Requirements And Development Standards
10-30-1: PURPOSE:
The RPD, Recreational Planned Development district is to provide a zone to
allow sensitive utilization of land in mountainous areas. It is intended to
allow the preservation of open spaces by clustering of built facilities. These
provisions are to protect the beauty and desirable environments of the
mountains within the city. This chapter also intends to protect all land
resources which are sensitive to the impacts of development. The RPD district
corresponds to the RPD land use classification of the General Plan. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
10-30-2: DESIGN REVIEW:
Required. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-30-3: DENSITY:
   A.   Maximum: The maximum base density shall not exceed one occupied unit
for every two (2) acres of buildable area. The maximum gross floor area allowed
for retail and other support use shall not exceed one percent (1%) of the
buildable area.
   B.   Determination Of Buildable Area: The buildable area shall be determined
by subtracting the following from the total area of the RPD:
      1.   All areas having a slope of twenty percent (20%) or greater;
      2.   All areas where native soils are classified by the Natural Resources
Conservation Service (NRCS), as having severe limitations for foundations for
low buildings and all native soils having no interpretations. Soil types
classified as having severe limitations may be included for maximum base
density; provided, however, the developer submits with his application an
engineering report that defines the soils limitations and detailed engineering
plans that will reduce the possible hazard to an acceptable standard as
determined by the city and recommended by a professional geotechnical engineer.
These soils include high water table, soils with high shrink-swell potential,
areas subject to flooding, and areas having a high degree of slope.
      3.   All Critical lands as described in subsection
Chapter 10-34 of this code. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-30-4: RESERVED:
10-30-5: MINIMUM PARCEL SIZE:
The minimum size of an RPD shall not be less than ten (10) acres. The City
Council may, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, allow an RPD on
smaller parcels if the City Council finds that the proposed RPD meets the
standards of Article V, and that the benefits of such action outweigh any
potential negative effects on surrounding properties. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-30-6: PARKING SHALL CONFORM TO CODE:
Parking, Section
10-38-8. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-30-7: SIGNS SHALL CONFORM TO CODE:
Signs,
Chapter 10-40. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-30-8: PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Form And Content: The form and content of the preliminary development
plan shall be as follows:
      1.   Zone Changes: Any written requests for proposed changes to existing
zoning district boundaries or zoning classifications that are necessary for
approval of the RPD.
      2.   Scale Of Site Plan: The site plan shall be drawn to a scale not
smaller than one inch equals sixty feet (1" = 60'), and shall be on standard
twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x 36") paper or smaller.
      3.   Information Required: The preliminary development plan shall contain
the following information:
         a.   The proposed name of the RPD;
         b.   Where the submitted plan covers only a part of the RPD's tract,
or is part of a larger area, the plan shall show the location of the proposed
RPD within the larger tract or parcel of land. In such case, a sketch of the
prospective future street system of the remaining parts shall be submitted, and
the street system of the part submitted shall be considered in light of
adjustments and connections with the future street system of the larger area;
         c.   A vicinity map containing sufficient information to accurately
locate the property shown on the plan and map;
         d.   The names and addresses of the owner, the developer, the engineer
or surveyor of the RPD, and the owners of all lands or parcels immediately
adjoining the land to be included in the RPD as shown on the records of the
city;
         e.   A contour map drawn at two foot (2') intervals on all plans,
unless waived in writing by the city planner;
         f.   The boundary lines of the tract to be developed;
         g.   All lot sizes or development parcels shall be indicated in square
feet, or acres to the nearest tenth;
         h.   Existing curbs, gutters, sidewalks, sanitary sewers and manholes,
storm drains and manholes, water supply main valves, culverts and fire hydrants
within the tract or within two hundred feet (200') of the boundaries of the
proposed RPD. The dimensions of all such improvements shall also be indicated;
         i.   The location, width and other dimensions of lots or parcels,
proposed curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streets, easements, parks, land to be
dedicated to the city, and other open spaces with proper labeling;
         j.   The location, principal dimensions and names of all existing or
proposed streets, alleys and easements, both within the proposed RPD and
adjacent to the boundary thereof, whether recorded or claimed by usage; the
location of and distance to the nearest existing bench mark (or monument) and
section line; and the location and principal dimensions of all watercourses,
ditches, public utilities, and other important features; and existing
structures within the land adjacent to the tract to be included in the RPD,
with railroads and exceptional topography;
         k.   The location of existing bridges, culverts, surface or subsurface
drainageways, utilities, public buildings, pumping stations or appurtenances,
within the RPD or within two hundred feet (200') thereof;
         l.   Proposed water facilities, sanitary sewers, storm drainage
facilities and fire hydrants, located either within or without the RPD;
         m.   A plan by which the developer proposes to handle, within the RPD,
the storm water drainage. This system must be adequate to handle a one hundred
(100)-year storm with provisions to prevent storm water damage to adjacent
properties;
         n.   Each sheet of the development plan shall contain the name of the
RPD, the scale of the drawing (not less than sixty feet (60') to the inch), the
sheet number, an arrow indicating north and a vicinity map;
         o.   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of land, showing ownership and
property monuments;
         p.   A tabulation of each proposed use by acreage and its percentage
of the total acreage;
         q.   Parks, playgrounds, common areas and facilities, limited common
areas and facilities, and other improvements within the RPD;
         r.   Location of all residential structures and other structures in
the RPD, the common areas, limited common areas and other areas of ownership;
         s.   Typical landscape planting plan for each landscaped area of the
RPD, which will be held in common or limited common ownership;
         t.   Building elevations and basic floor plans for all buildings
within the RPD or guarantees in the form of covenants that the buildings will
be compatible in value and design with other buildings in the RPD;
         u.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the
subject property to effectuate the proposed plan as submitted.
   B.   Submission Of Documents: Submit three (3) sets of twenty four inch by
thirty six inch (24" x 36") drawings and one set of all documents (including
reduced drawings) at eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (8-1/2" x 11")
to the city offices, not later than fourteen (14) days prior to the date of the
next public meeting which the RPD will be considered.
   C.   Fees: An application fee and a fee for each occupied unit shall be
assessed for the processing of an RPD. The amount of all fees shall be based on
a fee schedule adopted and amended by resolution or ordinance of the City
Council. The applicant shall also reimburse the city, prior to issuance of
building permit, for all professional fees incurred to review and process the
RPD.
   D.   Conditions May Be imposed; Disapproval: The Planning Commission may
recommend and the City Council may impose such conditions on the development
plans as they deem appropriate to meet the goals and objectives of this title,
or may disapprove an RPD which is found to be deficient in meeting the intent
of these provisions. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-30-9: PLANNING COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
The City Council may, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, approve
in concept, the preliminary development plan for the RPD plan; provided, that
they find:
   A.   The RPD project will provide more efficient use of the land and more
usable open space than a conventional development pattern permitted under the
subdivision regulations;
   B.   No portion of the RPD will create increased unreasonable hazards to the
health, safety and general welfare of the occupants of the proposed RPD and
adjacent areas or residents of the city;
   C.   All Critical lands, as specified in the subdivision ordinance and the
master plan are reasonably preserved in the RPD (Chapter 10-34). (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
10-30-10: FAILURE TO SUBMIT FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
Failure to submit a final development plan within one year of the date of
approval of the preliminary development plan shall terminate all proceedings
and render approval of the preliminary development plan null and void. In
projects that are constructed in successive phases, the submission of final
development plans for one phase will continue in effect and approval for the
balance of the project for one year from the date of approval of the most
recently submitted final development plan. This process can be repeated as
often as necessary until final development plans have been submitted and
approved for all of the proposed project. Failure to submit additional final
development plans for successive phases within one year from the date of
approval for the most recent final development plan at any one point in the
process will render the balance of the development plan null and void.
Resubmission to and approval of a preliminary development plan by the City
Council, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, will be required prior
to any additional final development plan approvals in order for the project to
continue. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-30-11: FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Required; Time Limit; Extension: A final development plan of all or
part of the RPD shall be prepared by the developer and submitted to the city
manager, together with the required fees. All final development plans must be
signed by a licensed surveyor and must conform to city design standards. The
one (1)-year time limit for submission and approval of the final development
plan may be extended by the Planning Commission for up to one additional year.
   B.   Requirements for Submission: The following shall be submitted for
review for the final development plan:
      1.   Plan Details: The final development plan shall be submitted on white
bond paper having outside or trim line dimensions of twenty-four inches by
thirty-six inches (24" x 36"). The plan shall be drawn so that the top of the
drawing faces north. The plan shall be made to a scale large enough to clearly
show all details and in any case not smaller than one inch equals sixty feet
(1" = 60'). Plats requiring submission to the county recorder must be prepared
by a licensed surveyor. All buildings must be prepared by an architect or
engineer licensed to practice in the State of Utah. All other plans shall be
prepared by an architect, landscape architect or engineer licensed to practice
in the state within the realm for which they are licensed. The finished drawing
shall be readable and shall be in conformance with the format approved by the
city and the county recorder.
      2.   Contents of Plan: The final development plan shall contain the
following information:
         a.   The name of the RPD;
         b.   A north arrow (point), the scale of the drawing and the date of
preparation of the plan;
         c.   All lot sizes, which shall be indicated in square feet;
         d.   Accurately drawn boundaries, showing the proper bearings and
dimensions of all boundary lines of the RPD, properly tied by reference to two
(2) public survey monuments. These lines shall be heavier than street and lot
lines;
         e.   The names, widths, lengths, bearings and curve data of proposed
streets, public utility and irrigation easements; also, the boundaries,
bearings and dimensions of all portions within the RPD intended to be dedicated
to the use of the public; also, the lines, dimensions, bearings and numbers of
all lots, blocks and parts reserved for any reason within the RPD. All lots,
blocks and streets shall be numbered in accordance with the street numbering
system adopted by the city. In the case of corner lots, an address will be
assigned for each part of the lot having frontage. Streets may be named;
however, each street must have a number;
         f.   A licensed land surveyor's certificate of survey;
         g.   The description of the boundaries of the RPD, together with a
certification by the developer's engineer or land surveyor stating that the
lots described fu\\y comply with the requirements of this title;
         h.   The owner's certificate of dedication as required by the county;
         i.   The signature of every person who owns property within the RPD
and a notary public's acknowledgment of all such signatures;
         j.   The Planning Commission approval of the development plan, with
the signature of the Planning Commission chairperson;
         k.   The City Council's approval shown by the signature of the mayor
and attested to by the city recorder;
   I.   The city engineer's approval and signature;
         m.   A notice of all covenants, conditions and other restrictions
which may be relevant and applicable to the property contained in the plan;
         n.   Designation of common areas, limited common areas and private
ownership areas;
         o.   Identification of landscaped areas, parking areas, driveways and
other features required by this section, and a detailed landscape planting plan
and irrigation system plan for each landscaped area of the RPD, which is to be
held in common or limited common ownership;
         p.   Three-dimensional drawings of multi-storied buildings and
building elevations where required;
         q.   Restrictions and other information required by the Planning
Commission and/or the City Council;
         r.   All required construction drawings, including profile plans and
other required construction drawings, which shall be submitted to the city
engineer. These drawings must be approved by the city engineer prior to the
City Council review of the final development plan, and shall be submitted at
least fourteen (14) days prior to the Planning Commission review of the final
development plan;
         s.   Complete declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions,
bylaws and all other required documents shall be submitted for approval by the
city attorney at least fourteen (14) days prior to Planning Commission review
of the final development plan. Condominium ortimeshare documents shall also be
submitted if condominium ownership is allowed within the RPD. The developer
shall be required to pay an additional fee for such review in an amount
sufficient to reimburse the city for all costs (including the city attorney's
time) incurred in reviewing said documents;
         t.   Copies of any required agreements with property owners adjacent
to the proposed RPD, or any other person;
         u.   Written approval of adjoining ditch or canal companies to
authorize mandatory fencing (if such approval is required).
      3.   Statement of Intent: A statement of intent shall be submitted with
each final development plan. A statement of intent is a narrative describing
the intangible concepts the developer proposes to implement with the RPD. The
statements shall be descriptive and shall include, but may not be limited to:
         a.   Market analysis;
         b.   Design theme of entire project, to include architectural,
landscaping, signage, lighting, roads and walkways;
         c.   Common area amenities not detailed on the plan;
         d.   Proposed budget for common area amenities and landscaping;
         e.   Maintenance and repair of common, limited common and private
areas;
         f.   Project construction phasing;
         g.   A time schedule for the completion of common area facilities,
including landscaping, parking, parks and other improvements.
      4.   Submission Of Documents: Submit three (3) sets of twenty-four inch
by thirty-six inch (24" x 36") drawings and one set of all documents (including
drawings) at eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (8-1/2" x 11") to the
city offices no later than fourteen (14) days prior to the date of the next
public meeting which the RPD will be considered.
      5.   Fees: An application fee and a fee for each occupied unit shall be
assessed for the processing of an RPD. The amount of all fees shall be based on
a fee schedule adopted and amended by resolution or ordinance of the City
Council. The applicant shall also reimburse the city, prior to issuance of
building permit, for all professional fees incurred to review and process the
RPD. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-30-12: CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Findings Required For Approval: The City Council may, upon
recommendation of the Planning Commission, approve the final development plan
of the RPD, provided they find:
      1.   All of the conditions of approval of the preliminary development
plan have been incorporated into the final development plan;
      2.   All construction drawings of the RPD have been approved by the city
engineer and city planner.
   B.   Variation from standards permitted: Variations from the development
standards of the RPD zone may be permitted by the City Council, provided the
variations are specifically adopted by the City Council as part of the approved
development plans or approved supporting documents. Variations, however, shall
not include changes in the permitted uses, except to the extent set forth in
this chapter. Variations shall not create increased unreasonable hazards to the
health, safety and genera! welfare of the occupants of the proposed RPD and
adjacent areas or residents of the city. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-30-13: REQUIREMENTS AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following requirements and standards shall guide the application, design
and construction of an RPD:
   A.   Recreational planned developments shall comply with the requirements of
this title along with the stipulations and requirements of the Planning
Commission, City Council, general plan and subdivision specifications for
roads, sewer and water facilities. The requirements and standards set forth in
this chapter shall apply to any RPD.
   B.   No building shall be allowed within three hundred feet (300') of a
public roadway.
   C.   Buildings will be located to maintain maximum open land and reduce the
visibility of built facilities.
   D.   Building setbacks along the peripheral property lines of an RPD shall
be the same as that required in the zone for the abutting residential
properties.
   E.   All land within an RPD shall be either common area, limited common
area, dedicated to public use, privately owned or a combination of the above.
   F.   Any slope greater than twenty percent (20%) may be used as parks or
playground areas but shall not be included in open space calculation
requirements. Additionally, buildings may not be placed on such slopes.
   G.   All facilities shall be served by a public water system. A
comprehensive sewer collection and treatment system or other sewer disposal
system shall serve RPDs, as approved by the City Council, state division of
water quality, the state health department, and others as required. All
utilities shall be placed underground. Each building shall be served by a
separate sewer connection. Each building will also be required to install
backflow prevention valves in accordance with the applicable plumbing code.
   H.   The required front setbacks and side setbacks adjacent to a public
street shall be landscaped or maintained in native vegetation and shall not be
used for parking.
   I.   All parking shall be provided in off street lots or structures with
landscaping and screening. Parking will not be allowed on any private access
roads or public roads within the RPD. Limited parking may be allowed by the
Planning Commission, perpendicular to a roadway (minimum twenty four feet (24')
in width) when it is apparent that excessive grading and loss of site amenities
will adversely affect the site. The amount of parking to support occupied
units, and other on-site services and facilities must be provided on the plans
to accommodate peak parking demands in off street parking facilities. All
parking spaces, parking areas and driveways shall be hard surfaced and properly
drained.
   J.   Drainage shall not be channeled or caused to flow across pedestrian
walkways.
   K.   All streets within an RPD will generally be required to have a paving
width of twenty-four feet (24'). However, a minimum width of twenty feet (20')
of paving may be approved in certain instances where in the opinion of the City
Council such factors as the volume of traffic served by the street may warrant
a lesser standard. Streets must be designed to city specifications by a civil
engineer licensed to practice in the state.
   L.   All streets which are shown on the city master road plan shall be
developed according to the size and general location as shown on the road plan.
   M.   A private street will not extend to or provide service to another
property or parcel not included in the RPD. The street will not provide access
or travel between, or otherwise connect with, two (2) public streets. The City
Council may waive this requirement upon recommendation of the Planning
Commission if circumstances warrant.
   N.   The minimum street width may be increased when, in the judgment of the
city, a greater standard is warranted to adequately serve the RPD.
   O.   All private streets shall be shown on the final development plan as a
perpetual public access and utilities easement.
   P.   Common areas of an RPD shall be developed according to the plan
approved by the city and maintained in accordance with the provisions of this
title.
   Q.   All land not covered by roads, parking areas, pedestrian walkways or
buildings shall be permanently landscaped with trees, shrubs, lawn or ground
cover and maintained in accordance with good landscaping practices. Wherever
practical, natural areas should be maintained or enhanced in their native
state. Not less than sixty percent (60%) of the net acreage shall remain in
permanently landscaped areas or natural open space.
   R.   For areas disturbed by construction, there shall be required at least
two (2) deciduous trees of at least two inches (2") caliper in size, one
evergreen tree, and two (2) shrubs for every two thousand five hundred (2,500)
square feet of disturbed area, planted and maintained.
   S.   All storage and solid waste receptacles which are not located within a
building shall be enclosed within a sight obscuring structure or fence
compatible with the design of the RPD.
   T.   All documentation, including covenants, restrictions, easements,
declarations, guarantees or agreements, shall be submitted for review by the
city attorney, the Planning Commission and the City Council. Said agreements
shall be submitted for staff review, signed and prepared prior to
recommendation of a final development plan by the Planning Commission and final
approval by the City Council.
   U.   Prior to the issuance of any building permit on ground covered by an
RPD, a bond or other security, sufficient in amount to cover the cost of all
off site and on-site improvements required by this title and all stipulations
and requirements of the Planning Commission and City Council, shall be
required. The bond shall be a guarantee that the proper installation of all
required improvements shall be completed within one year of the approval of the
final development plan. This bond or other security shall also assure that the
improvements shall remain free from defects for one year from the date of final
inspection or until April 15 of the following year, whichever is longer, and
shall not be released until improvements are accepted by the City Council and
the city engineer. Said bond shall be in the form and amount as required by the
City Council and as specified in title 11, chapter 4 (Subdivisions) of the
Wellsville City Code.
   V.   The final development plan shall be recorded only after all signatures
are obtained, all approvals are given, and all bonds or other security and fees
are posted with the city. Building permits will not be issued until all of
these requirements are fulfilled. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 31 - 33
RESERVED
ARTICLE V. SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 34
CRITICAL LANDS
SECTION:
10-34-1: Purpose
10-34-2: Regulations
10-34-3: Review And Approval Required
10-34-4: Land Classifications
10-34-5: Official Maps
10-34-6: Development Standards For Floodplain Corridor Lands
10-34-7: Development Standards For Riparian Preservation Lands
10-34-8: Development Standards For Erosive And Slope Failure Lands
10-34-9: Development Standards For Lands With Wildfire Threats
10-34-10: Development Standards For Severe Constraint Lands
10-34-11: Highly Productive Agricultural Lands
10-34-12: Essential Views
10-34-1: PURPOSE:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2665.png]
 
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for safe, orderly and beneficial
development of areas characterized by development hazards and valuable natural
conditions shown on the Official Critical Lands Maps; to limit alteration and
to reduce encroachment upon such areas. Critical Land conditions include, but
are not limited to the following:
   A.   Floodplain Corridor Lands.
   B.   Riparian Preservation Lands.
   C.   Erosive and Slope Failure Lands.
   D.   Wildfire Threats.
   E.   Severe Constraint Lands.
   F.   Agricultural lands.
   G.   Essential Views.
   H.   Wetlands.
   I.   Wildlife Habitat.
   J.   Development proximate to canals.
   K.   Valuable Physical Characteristics of Wellsville as defined in the
Wellsville General Plan. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-34-2: REGULATIONS:
The type of regulation applicable to the land depends upon the classification
in which the land is placed, as provided in Section
10-34-4. If those regulations conflict with other regulations of Title 10 of
the City Code - Land Use Regulations, the more stringent of the regulations
shall govern. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-34-3: REVIEW AND APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   A Critical Lands Review is required for any development, proposed on a
site within or including lands defined in Section
10-34-4 as Critical Lands, and identified as Floodplain Corridor Land, Riparian
Preserve, Erosive and Slope Failure land, or Severe Constraint land.
   B.   If the proposed development is required to obtain a Design Review
Permit, Conditional Use Permit, subdivision, or other regulatory process, the
review shall be conducted simultaneously with the regulatory process and no
additional fee shall be charged.
   C.   If a development is exclusive of any other regulatory process, as noted
in Section
10-34-3 B, then the Critical Lands Review shall be processed by the Planning
Commission.
   D.   Information Required: The following information shall be required for
any development requiring a Critical Lands Review:
      1.   A site plan containing the following:
         a.   Project name, and name of the developer.
         b.   Vicinity map.
         c.   Scale 1"=50' or larger (the scale shall be at least one inch
equals fifty feet).
         d.   North arrow.
         e.   Date of submittal.
         f.   Street names and locations of all existing and proposed streets
within or on the boundary of the proposed development.
         g.   Lot layout with dimensions for all lot lines.
         h.   Location and use of all proposed and existing buildings, fences
and structures within the proposed development. Indicate which buildings are to
remain and which are to be removed.
         i.   Location and size of all public utilities within the proposed
development.
         j.   Location of drainage ways or public utility easements in and
adjacent to the proposed development.
         k.   A topographic map of the site at a contour interval of two feet
or less.
         l.   Location of all parking areas and spaces, ingress and egress on
the site, and onsite circulation.
         m.   Locations of all existing natural features including, but not
limited to, all trees of a caliper greater than six inches (6"); natural
drainages or creeks on the site, and outcroppings of rocks, boulders, etc. In
forested areas, it is necessary to identify only those trees which will be
affected or removed by the proposed development. Indicate any contemplated
modifications to a natural feature.
         n.   The proposed method of erosion control, water runoff control, and
tree protection for the development.
         o.   Building envelopes for all existing and proposed new parcels that
contain only buildable area, as defined by this Chapter.
         p.   If the applicant desires to challenge the extent or
classification of any critical lands within the applicant's property a
technical report may be submitted with the application that is prepared by an
appropriately qualified professional providing technical data to justify a
modification to critical lands.
      2.   Additional plans and studies as required in Sections
10-34-6,
10-34-7,
10-34-8 and
10-34-10 of this Chapter.
   E.   Criteria For Approval: A Critical Lands Review shall be permitted when
the Applicant demonstrates the following:
      1.   That the development will not cause damage or hazard to persons or
property upon or adjacent to the area of development.
      2.   That the development is in compliance with the requirements of this
chapter and all other applicable requirement of the City Code.
   F.   The Planning Commission has the authority to require amendment of the
plans to include any or all of the following conditions if it is deemed
necessary to mitigate any potential negative impact caused by the development:
      1.   Require the retention of trees, rocks, ponds, watercourses, highly
productive agricultural lands, and other natural features.
      2.   Require plan revision or modification to mitigate possible negative
or irreversible effect upon the topography, or natural features that the
proposed development may cause.
      3.   Avoid land possessing hazardous conditions adverse to public health,
welfare and safety.
   G.   The Planning Commission may deny the Critical Lands Permit if, in its
opinion:
      1.   The proposed development will have a detrimental effect on the lands
regulated and protected by this Chapter.
      2.   Where it appears that the proposal is part of a more extensive
development that would require a master site plan, or other action and/or
approval, the Planning Commission may decide to post-poned any action until a
complete application has been submitted. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-34-4: LAND CLASSIFICATIONS:
The following factors shall be used to determine the classifications of various
lands and their constraints to building and development of certain lands:
   A.   Floodplain Corridor Lands: Lands with potential stream flow and flood
hazards. The following lands are classified as Floodplain Corridor lands:
      1.   All land contained within the one hundred (100)-year floodplain as
defined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      2.   All land within the area defined as Floodplain Corridor land in maps
adopted by the City as provided for in Section
10-34-5.
      3.   All lands which have physical or historical evidence of flooding in
the historical past.
      4.   All areas within thirty feet (horizontal distance) of any river,
creek, or stream as required by the State of Utah, Division of Water Quality.
   B.   Riparian Preservation Areas: The lands shown on the official maps as
Riparian Areas are identified as seventy five feet (75') from the stream
centerline for streams draining a basin of greater than one (1) square mile,
and twenty five feet (25') from streams that drain areas of one square mile or
less. It also includes any areas identified as wetlands or riparian in a
Federal 404 Permit Process.
   C.   Erosive And Slope Failure Lands: Lands with potential erosion hazards,
erosive lands, slope failure potential, and debris flow hazards are lands that
are subject to damage from erosion and slope failure or defined as erosion and
slope failure lands on the Critical Lands map and have a slope of fifteen
percent (15%) or greater. Areas above and below canals on slopes greater that
ten percent (10%) are also considered to have high erosive and slope failure
potential.
   D.   Wildfire Lands: Lands with potential of wildfire, as defined on the
Critical Lands map.
   E.   Severe Constraint Lands: Lands with severe development limitations
which generally limit normal development. The following lands are classified as
Severe Constraint Lands:
      1.   All areas which are within the floodway channels.
      2.   All lands with a slope greater than twenty percent (20%).
      3.   All lands within drainage ways with a watershed large enough to
produce flooding conditions with potential to create property damage or threat
to life.
   F.   Agricultural Land: Land as mapped by the State of Utah as Agricultural
land of National or State Importance and as mapped and shown on the Critical
Lands maps.
   G.   Essential Views: View corridors, view foregrounds, and view backdrops
that are a value to the citizens of Wellsville and as define on the Essential
Views map.
   H.   Classifications Cumulative: The above classifications are cumulative in
their effect and, if a parcel of land falls under two (2) or more
classifications, it shall be subject to the regulations of each classification.
Those restrictions applied shall pertain only to those portions of the land
being developed and not necessarily to the whole parcel. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019; amd. Ord. 2021-04, 5-19-2021)
10-34-5: OFFICIAL MAPS:
   A.   The City shall adopt official critical lands maps denoting the above
identified areas. The source of data will be available and current GIS data
from federal and state agencies. Any mapping not available from these sources
will be produced by the City from the best technical data available. Property
owners may submit additional engineered data to modify city mapping if approved
by the City. Substantial amendments of these maps shall require amendment
procedures as required herein.
   B.   The city will endeavor to complete the critical lands maps as resources
become available. Basic critical lands maps are provided in the General Plan as
a guide to the City and to Developers. Until new maps are produced and adopted
the method used to identify critical lands shall be as specified in Section
10-34-5 item 4. Developers shall use these maps and other publicly available
resource maps to determine which critical lands are affected by the proposed
development. The Planning Commission may require additional studies by the
developer if it judges that additional critical lands are involved.
   C.   Minor amendments of the maps to correct mapping errors when the
amendments are intended to reflect more accurately the mapping criteria
contained in this chapter or in the findings of the Council in adopting an
official map may be processed following the minor map amendment procedure
contained in this ordinance.
   D.   Map As Reference To Text:
      1.   The text provisions of this ordinance shall be used to determine
whether applications to allow development in Critical Lands are subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Applicants are required to provide the decision makers with a
delineation of the Critical Lands on the subject property as part of the
application. An application shall not be considered complete until this
delineation is submitted.
      3.   An applicant may identify and delineate Critical Lands by gathering
and reviewing information other than the Critical Lands Map, such as FEMA maps,
aerial photographs, Section
10-34-3 permit delineation, field investigations, and other significant
evidence.
      4.   The specific delineation of the Critical Lands will be determined as
part of the permit by the Planning Commission based on the best available data.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-34-6: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN CORRIDOR LANDS:
For all land use actions which could result in development of the Floodplain
Corridor as defined by FEMA, the following is required:
   A.   Standards For Filling In Floodplain Corridor Lands:
      1.   Fill shall be designed as required by the building code, where
applicable.
      2.   The toe of the fill shall be kept at least ten (10) feet outside of
floodway channels, as defined in this chapter.
      3.   The amount of fill in the Floodplain Corridor shall be kept to a
minimum. Fill and other material imported from off the lot that could displace
floodwater shall be limited to the following:
         a.   Poured concrete and other materials necessary to build permitted
structures on the lot.
         b.   Aggregate base and paving materials.
         c.   Plants and other landscaping material.
         d.   A total of fifty cubic yards of other imported fill material, or
three hundred cubic yards per acre, whichever is greater. These amounts are the
maximum cumulative fill that can be imported onto the site, regardless of the
number of permits issued.
         e.   The above limits on fill shall be measured from the elevation
that existed at the location as shown on the latest FEMA flood maps and shall
not exceed the above amounts.
      4.   If additional fill is necessary beyond the permitted amounts in (3)
above, then fill materials must be obtained on the lot from cutting or
excavation only to the extent necessary to create an elevated site for
permitted development. All additional fill material shall be obtained from the
portion of the lot in the Floodplain Corridor.
      5.   Adequate drainage shall be provided for the stability of the fill.
      6.   Fill to raise elevations for a building site shall be located as
close to the outside edge of the Floodplain Corridor as feasible.
      7.   Development of floodways is not permitted except for bridges and
road crossings. Such crossings shall be designed to pass a one hundred (100)
year flood without raising the upstream flood height more than six inches (6").
   B.   Culverting or bridging of any waterway or creek identified on the
official maps adopted pursuant to Section
10-34-5 must be designed by an engineer for a one hundred year flood event.
Stream crossings shall be designed to the standards currently accepted by the
City Engineer and shall comply with all requirements of the City Engineer.
Where no floodway has been identified, culverts must be capable of handling a
one hundred (100)-year flood without any increase in the upstream flood height
elevation. The engineer shall consider in the design the probability that the
culvert will be blocked by debris in a severe flood and accommodate expected
overflow. Fill for culverting and bridging shall be kept to the minimum
necessary but is exempt from the limitations in section (A) above. Culverting
or bridging of streams identified as Riparian Preservation is subject to the
requirements of Section
10-34-7.
   C.   Non-residential structures shall be flood-proofed to one foot above the
elevation flood elevation contained in the official maps adopted by Section
10-34-5 at the finished floor elevation. Where no specific elevations exist on
maps, buildings shall be elevated to three feet above the stream channel on all
drainage ways identified on the official maps.
   D.   No new residential structures are permitted in the Floodplain Corridor,
except as permitted in E and F below. All residential structures shall be
elevated so that the lowest habitable floor shall be raised to one foot above
the elevation contained in the official maps adopted by Section
10-34-5. Where no specific elevations exist, buildings shall be elevated to
three feet above the stream channel on all drainage ways identified on the
official maps.
   E.   The elevation of the finished lowest habitable floor shall be certified
to the City by an engineer or surveyor prior to issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for the structure.
   F.   All lots modified by lot line adjustments, or new lots created from
lots which contain Floodplain Corridor land must contain a building envelope on
all lot(s) which contain(s) buildable area of a sufficient size to accommodate
the uses permitted in the underling zone, unless the action is for open space
or conservation purposes. This section shall apply even if the effect is to
prohibit further division of lots that are larger than the minimum size
permitted in the zoning ordinance.
   G.   No new habitable space shall be permitted lower than the highest
floodplain corridor elevation.
   H.   Storage of petroleum products, pesticides, or other hazardous or toxic
chemicals is not permitted in Floodplain Corridor lands.
   I.   Fences constructed within twenty feet (20') of any riparian area shall
be limited to wire or electric fence, or similar fence that would not collect
debris or obstruct flood waters, but not including wire mesh or chain link
fencing.
   J.   Decks and structures other than buildings, if constructed on Floodplain
Corridor Lands and at or below the levels specified in Paragraphs (C) and (D)
of the section, shall be capable withstanding flooding and must meet FEMA
standards.
   K.   Local streets and utility connections to developments in and adjacent
to the Floodplain Corridor shall be located outside of the Floodplain Corridor,
except for crossing the Corridor in the shortest possible distance. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
10-34-7: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR RIPARIAN PRESERVATION LANDS:
All development in areas identified for Riparian Preservation, as defined in
Section
10-34-4, shall comply with the following standards:
   A.   Development shall be subject to all Development Standards for
Floodplain Corridor Lands (Section
10-34-6).
   B.   Within these areas in addition to the standards for Undeveloped
Floodplains, no land disturbing activity is allowed except as permitted in this
section.
   C.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   Up to ten percent (10%) of the area may be disturbed for private
yard structures including but not limited to: storage sheds, gardens, yards,
trails, and clearings, except that no disturbance is permitted for 404
identified areas. Treatment of wetlands for land use and development proposals
shall follow those mandated by Utah State Code. Wellsville City may act upon a
land use and/or development proposal containing wetlands without prior
mitigation of those wetlands, but in no case shall structures, infrastructure,
improvements, utilities and the like be developed, constructed, built and/or
occupied in areas containing wetlands without prior approval, including
mitigation measures, from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
      2.   Repair, replacement or improvement of utility facilities where:
         a.   The disturbed portion of the Riparian Preservation lands is
restored; and
         b.   Non-native vegetation is removed from the riparian preservation
lands and replaced with native riparian vegetation as approved by the Planning
Commission.
      3.   Additions, alterations, rehabilitation, or replacement of existing
structures that do not increase existing structural footprint in the Riparian
Preserve lands where the disturbed portion of the area is restored using native
vegetative cover.
      4.   Stream, wetland, riparian and upland enhancement or restoration
projects;
      5.   Farming practices and farm uses, excluding buildings and structures,
and the pasturing of livestock within twenty-five feet (25') of the stream.
      6.   Routine repair and maintenance of existing structures, roadways,
driveways, utility facilities, accessory uses and other development.
      7.   Measures to remove or abate nuisances, or any other violation of
State statute, administrative agency rule or City ordinance. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019)
10-34-8: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR EROSIVE AND SLOPE FAILURE LANDS:
   A.   All development that removes vegetation or disturbs topsoil and leaves
the disturbed soil at a slope of twenty percent (20%) or more shall comply with
the following standards:
      1.   Any exposed soil shall be revegetated in a manner to reestablish a
vegetative community within a one year period from issuance of a Certificate of
Occupancy. If irrigation is not provided, then the exposed soil must be planted
with species that can survive without irrigation.
      2.   Vegetative cover, rock, dry or conventional masonry, or other
permanent cover must be maintained on areas that have been disturbed.
      3.   These restrictions shall not apply to areas of exposed bedrock which
exhibit no erosion potential.
   B.   Cuts And Fills:
      1.   In addition, any cuts and/or fills greater than two hundred fifty
(250) cubic yards must be designed by an engineer to comply with building code
and requirements of this chapter. Such cuts and/or fills shall be designed in
such a manner that they will be stable for the use intended.
      2.   If the excavation is not a dedicated street or a public right-of-
way, the engineer shall declare to the City, after the cut and/or fill is
completed, that it was constructed to plans and meets all standards set forth
in the plans approved.
      3.   Nothing in this section shall abridge the City's right to inspect
work in progress or in its completed state, to make appropriate measurements
and tests to determine if the cut and fill was made according to plan, and to
require alterations prior to final approval of the cut and/or fill.
   C.   Any development that is proposed in Erosive and Slope Failure Lands
must be shown on a master site plan at the time the final plan or plat is
filed. All development must comply with the master site plan. Any improvements
necessary for the implementation of the master plan (e.g., storm drains,
gutters, etc.), which involve two (2) or more parcels of land must be
constructed by the applicant prior to any development occurring on the parcels.
   D.   All structures in Erosive and Slope Failure Lands shall have
foundations that have been designed by an engineer or architect.
   E.   All newly created lots or lots modified by a boundary line adjustment
must include a building envelope on all lots that contains a buildable area of
sufficient size to accommodate the uses permitted in the underlying zone
without including erosive and slope failure land, unless the division or lot
line adjustment is for open space or conservation purposes. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019; amd. Ord. 2021-04, 5-19-2021)
10-34-9: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR LANDS WITH WILDFIRE THREATS:
   A.   Requirements For Subdivisions, Or Planned Developments (see also
Chapter 10-28):
      1.   A Fire Prevention and Control Plan shall be required with the
submission of any application for plan approval of a development or preliminary
plat of a subdivision, which contain areas designated as Wildfire threats areas
in the Wildland/Urban Interface Fire Safety Overlay Zone,
Chapter 10-28.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall forward the Fire Prevention and
Control Plan to the Fire Chief. The Fire Chief shall review the Fire Prevention
and Control Plan and submit a written report to the Planning Commission no less
than seven (7) days before the scheduled hearing. The Fire Chiefs report shall
be a part of the record of permits.
      3.   Criterion for Approval. The hearing authority shall approve the Fire
Prevention and Control Plan when, in addition to the findings required by this
chapter, the additional finding is made that the wildfire hazards present on
the property have been reduced to a reasonable degree, balanced with the need
to preserve and/or plant a sufficient number of trees and plants for erosion
prevention, wildlife habitat, and aesthetics.
      4.   The hearing authority may require, through the imposition of
conditions attached to the approval, the following requirements as deemed
appropriate for the development of the property:
         a.   Delineation of areas of heavy vegetation to be thinned and a
formal plan for such thinning.
         b.   Clearing of sufficient vegetation to reduce fuel load.
         c.   Removal of all dead and dying trees.
         d.   Relocation of structures and roads to reduce the risks of
wildfire and improve the chances of successful fire suppression.
      5.   The Fire Prevention and Control Plan shall be implemented during the
public improvements required of a subdivision or Performance Standards
Development and shall be considered part of the subdivider's obligations for
land development. The Plan shall be implemented prior to the issuance of any
building permit for structures to be located on lots created by partitions and
for subdivisions or Performance Standards developments not requiring public
improvements. The Fire Chief, or designee, shall inspect and approve the
implementation of the Fire Prevention and Control Plan, and the Plan shall not
be considered fully implemented until the Fire Chief has given written notice
to the Planning Commission that the Plan was completed as approved by the
hearing authority.
      6.   In all new residential developments, provisions for the maintenance
of the Fire Prevention and Control Plan shall be included in the covenants,
conditions and restrictions for the development and the City shall be named as
a beneficiary of such covenants, conditions and restrictions.
   B.   Requirements For Construction Of All Structures:
      1.   All new construction and any construction expanding the size of an
existing structure shall have a "fuel break" as defined below.
         a.   A "fuel break" is defined as an area which is free of dead or
dying vegetation, and has native, fast-burning species sufficiently thinned so
that there is no interlocking canopy of this type of vegetation. Where
necessary for erosion control or aesthetic purposes, the fuel break may be
planted in slow burning species. Fuel breaks do not involve stripping the
ground of all native vegetation.
         b.   Primary Fuel Break - A primary fuel break will be installed,
maintained and shall extend a minimum of thirty feet (30') in all directions
around structures, excluding fences, on the property. The goal within this area
is to remove ground cover that wilt produce flame lengths in excess of one foot
(1‘). Such a fuel break shall be increased by five feet (5') for each ten
percent (10%) increase in slope over ten percent (10%).
         c.   Secondary Fuel Break - A secondary fuel break will be installed,
maintained and shall extend a minimum of one hundred feet (100') beyond the
primary fuel break where surrounding landscape is owned and under the control
of the property owner during construction. The goal of the secondary fuel break
is to reduce fuels so that the overall intensity of any wildfire is reduced
through fuels control.
      2.   All structures shall be constructed or re-roofed with Class B or
better non-wood roofing materials, as determined by the Building Ordinance. All
re-roofing of existing structures in the Wildfire Lands area shall be done
under approval of a zoning permit. No structure shall be constructed or re-
roofed with wooden shingles, shakes, wood-product material or other combustible
roofing material, as defined in the building ordinance.
         a.   Fuel breaks in areas which are also erosive or slope failure
lands shall be included in the erosion control measures outlined in Section
10-34-8. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-34-10: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR SEVERE CONSTRAINT LANDS:
   A.   Severe Constraint Lands are extremely sensitive to development, surface
disturbance such as grading, filling, or vegetation removal has high potential
to threaten life or property, whenever possible, alternative development should
be considered.
   B.   New structures are not allowed on Severe Constraints Lands.
   C.   Other development of land or approval for a Planning Commission action
shall be allowed only when the following study has been accomplished. An
engineering geologic study approved by the Wellsville City Engineer establishes
that the site is stable for the proposed use and development. The study shall
include the following:
      1.   Index map.
      2.   Project description to include location, topography, drainage,
vegetation, and discussion of previous work and discussion of field exploration
methods.
      3.   Site geology, based on a surficial survey, to include site geologic
maps, description of bedrock and surficial materials, including artificial
fill, locations of any faults, folds, etc., and structural data including
bedding, jointing and shear zones, soil depth and soil structure.
      4.   Discussion of any off-site geologic conditions that may pose a
potential hazard to the site, or that may be affected by on-site development.
      5.   Suitability of site for proposed development from a geologic
standpoint.
      6.   Specific recommendations for cut slope stability, seepage and
drainage control or other design criteria to mitigate geologic hazards.
      7.   If deemed necessary by the engineer or geologist to establish
whether an area to be affected by the proposed development is stable,
additional studies and supportive data shall include cross-sections showing
subsurface structure, graphic logs with subsurface exploration, results of
laboratory test and references.
      8.   Signature and registration number of the engineer and/or geologist
licensed as professional engineer in the State of Utah.
      9.   Additional information or analyses as necessary to evaluate the
site.
   D.   Prohibited Actions: Notwithstanding any other provision of these
Ordinances it shall be unlawful to clear, "grub," grade, fill, or excavate any
land in any manner which presents an unreasonable risk of erosion, flooding,
landslide, or any other unsafe condition; and it shall be unlawful to erect any
structure which will not be reasonably safe for use as a human habitation
because of:
      1.   Proximity to a high water table (water close to the ground surface);
      2.   Surface water;
      3.   Expansive soils;
      4.   Collapsible soils;
      5.   Proximity to a potential landslide area;
      6.   Proximity to a secondary fault;
      7.   Proximity to an alluvial fan;
      8.   Proximity to an active landslide;
      9.   Proximity to a primary Wasatch Fault zone;
      10.   Any other unsafe condition, as determined by the City. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
10-34-11: HIGHLY PRODUCTIVE AGRICULTURAL LANDS:
   A.   Agricultural lands support a locally important and nationally unique
agricultural industry that includes; dairy, livestock, food from grains,
vegetables, fruit, forestry, and greenhouse crops. Wellsville's climate,
topography and accessibility make it uniquely suited to the production,
processing and distribution of agricultural products on a regional and national
scale. The natural resources, productive farmland and rural character, has made
Wellsville and Cache Valley a desirable place to live and work. Farm land is an
irreplaceable natural resource with soil and topographic characteristics that
have been enhanced by generations of agricultural use. Loss of this resource to
development is a permanent reduction of a critical resource. The economic base
of the City is also supported by a variety of agriculturally related businesses
including: farm equipment and supply, dairy products processing, grain dealers,
packaging plants and other professional services. Critical agricultural lands
shall be governed by the following:
      1.   All lands identified as critical agricultural lands shall be
designated and mapped by the City. The City may utilize existing mapped
agricultural lands from other sources to satisfy this requirement.
      2.   Any proposed development within identified critical agricultural
lands shall be governed by the uses allowed in the respective zones in which
the highly productive agriculture exists.
      3.   Critical agricultural lands should be preserved through means of one
or more tools including, but not limited to:
         a.   Limitations placed on development on highly productive
agricultural lands;
         b.   Land set aside requirements as in
Chapter 10-35;
         c.   Substitutions for Open Space, Section
10-35-5;
         d.   Use of conservation easements;
         e.   Purchase of Development Rights (PDRs);
         f.   Private land trusts. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-34-12: ESSENTIAL VIEWS:
   A.   Essential Views are a critical visual and quality of life resource and
are protected as provided herein. The purpose and intent is to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare and to protect the scenic quality of
Wellsville City both for visitors to the city as well as for its residents by
ensuring that future development improvements are compatible with existing land
forms, including city ridgelines and views of Wellsville's many unique geologic
and agricultural features and the existing landscape fabric of the city's
hillside areas. The regulations contained in this chapter are consistent with
the goals and policies of the Wellsville City General Plan. It is intended that
this chapter accomplish the following:
      1.   Provide hillside development standards to minimize the impact of
man-made structures and grading on views of existing landforms, unique geologic
features, existing landscape features and open space as seen from designated
public roads within the city;
      2.   Protect and preserve views of major and minor ridgelines from
designated public roads;
      3.   Create a development review process by the Planning Commission.
      4.   Minimize cut and fill, earthmoving, grading operations and other
such man-made effects on the natural terrain to ensure that finished slopes are
compatible with existing land character; and
      5.   Promote architecture and designs that are compatible with hillside
terrain and minimize visual impacts.
   B.   General Requirements For Essential Views:
      1.   All final grades, including all cut and fill slopes, visible from
any designated public road shall be:
         a.   Consistent with the existing landscape to the greatest extent
possible, avoiding uninterrupted slope surfaces that stand out against existing
topographic contours;
         b.   Contoured to resemble existing terrain by varying slope
increments and breaking the visual surface of banks and inclines both
vertically and horizontally as naturally as possible;
         c.   Constructed to allow for the creation of berms or mounding at the
top of slopes and in other locations for the screening of structures and
assurance proper site drainage.
      2.   Design, height and massing of hillside development shall:
         a.   Maintain a balance of scale and proportion using design
components that are harmonious with natural landforms and landscaping;
         b.   Be small scale and low in height, conforming with hillside
topography by stepping or staggering the mass of the proposed building up or
down slope, avoiding flat pad construction and vertical massing;
         c.   Utilize structural elements, building materials and color tones
which blend artificial surfaces with surrounding native elements;
         d.   Utilize construction materials, glass, roofing and other surfaces
that are of a non-reflective nature;
         e.   Utilize articulated wails that use reveals, cornice detailing,
alcoves or other features which are appropriate to the scale of the building
and building projections, trellises, landscaping or other devices, which serve
to break up continuous building wails which are visible from designated public
roads; and
         f.   Ensure that the proposed structure does not break the skyline of
a primary ridge when viewed from any designated public road.
      3.   Roadways, driveways and utility alignments shall be:
         a.   Located to minimize grading, by following existing contours and
positioned upon gradual slopes;
         b.   Constructed to blend with the existing landscape, through
alignment with the natural curving contour of the land instead of using
straight lines or geometric patterns which create excessive cuts and fills;
         c.   Concealed from view through preservation and maintenance of
existing vegetation or through planned landscaping that is constant with the
natural character of the area.
      4.   Landscape planting and vegetation preservation shall:
         a.   Incorporate trees where appropriate, planted in random groupings
or clusters that mimic or maintain natural assemblages rather than in
systematic rows;
         b.   Maintain vegetation lines which convey the existing slope of the
hillside;
         c.   Preserve native vegetation, including grasses and open space
whenever possible;
         d.   Use native materials to the greatest extent possible and/or non-
natives that are compatible with indigenous vegetation and confined to the
adjacent vicinity of the proposed structure;
         e.   Include a sufficient irrigation, maintenance and monitoring
program designed to provide species requirements as well as protect against
sedimentation, soil loss and land sliding;
         f.   Be landscaped in such a manner so as to reduce fire hazard and
create a minimum defensible space for fire suppression.
      5.   Exterior and landscape lighting applications shall be:
         a.   Designed to minimize nighttime disruption and visual glare by
shielding lamp sources downward and away from view of designated public roads;
         b.   Controlled by timers and/or motion sensors, to limit the duration
of use and reduce prolonged glare;
         c.   Sized with the minimum wattage possible to meet desired
application. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 35
OPEN SPACE
SECTION:
10-35-1: Purpose
10-35-2: Land Set Aside Required
10-35-3: Applicability
10-35-4: Calculation Of Required Open Space
10-35-5: Open Space Standards
10-35-6: In Lieu Substitutions For Open Space Requirements
10-35-7: Rezoning Of Open Space
10-35-1: PURPOSE:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2667.png]
 
The purpose of this Article is to promote and provide incentives for the
setting aside of lands, whether publicly or privately owned, that are
accessible to and designed for the use and enjoyment of the citizens of
Wellsville within all existing boundaries and future annexation areas of the
City. Furthermore, it is generally intended that open space set asides remain
in private ownership and maintenance. However, where there is a demonstrated
public interest in open space set asides being dedicated to public ownership
and responsibility for maintenance and where sufficient funding exists to meet
this maintenance responsibility, public dedication of open space may occur
under the terms of this Article.
This article establishes minimum standards for providing open and outdoor space
set asides in developments and subdivisions. It is intended to ensure that all
development including residential, commercial, and industrial projects are
designed with functional open space to promote the health, safety, enjoyment,
and livability of residents, visitors, shoppers, and workers. Furthermore,
Wellsville and its future annexation areas possess critical lands with
qualities that shall remain in permanent open space for the future health,
safety, and welfare of all residents, workers, and visitors of the City. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-35-2: LAND SET ASIDE REQUIRED:
All development or redevelopment required to obtain a Design Review Permit as
specified in Land Use Regulations shall provide a required set aside of land as
open space as a condition of approval. The following types of set asides are
required and further specified in
Table 10-35-3:
   A.   Open Space: Open space is an area of land or water that may be used for
passive or active recreation, agriculture, conservation, landscaped areas,
preserves of the natural environment, scenic land, and/or other use that is of
a suitable size, topography, location, and shape to permit the activities for
which it is intended as determined by the Planning Commission, but shall not
include critical lands as defined in
Chapter 10-62 "Critical Lands" and
Chapter 10-34.
   B.   Useable Outdoor Space: A land area within a lot or parcel that is used
in conjunction with a primary use designed and intended for the use or
enjoyment of the residents and their guests of the development and shall
include improvements as necessary and appropriate for use as useable outdoor
space. Useable outdoor space may include accessory structures that enhance its
use and enjoyment. Useable outdoor space shall be generally landscaped and may
include patios, decks, shade structures, play equipment, play courts, walkways,
and landscaped plazas. Useable outdoor space shall not include required
setbacks, parking, and/or driveways. Storm water facilities qualify as useable
outdoor space if the physical characteristics are functional as useable areas
for the intended purpose of useable outdoor space. Except that storm water
facilities for useable outdoor space shall not be used for parking lots. Storm
water facilities may be used for useable outdoor space when located in the
setback require on U.S. Highway 89/91.
   C.   Exemption: An Open Space set-aside shall not be required for legal lots
within the Residential Open Space One Acre (ROS1) and Residential Open Space
One Half Acre (ROS 1/2) zoning districts for one (1) and two (2) lot
subdivisions. Subdivisions that are proposed with two (2) lots and a remainder
lot shall be considered a three (3) lot subdivision and are not eligible for
this exemption.
   D.   General requirements in all zoning districts. Open space shall be
required if any lot or subdivision is part of a larger parcel and/or part of
multiple, contiguous, parcels that are in the same ownership where it is
possible for the land to be developed in the future. The provision to waive an
open space set-aside shall not be used to circumvent open space requirements
when it is apparent that lot(s) can be added in the future or when attempts are
being made to split-off lot(s), in smaller increments, to avoid setting aside
open space. Existing open space, in all zoning districts, that has been set-
aside, as required by ordinance, shall not be waived, removed, recorded, or
modified in any way that is contrary to the original recording of the open
space.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 12-7-2022)
10-35-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   All development or redevelopment required to obtain a Design Review
Permit and which is specified in
Table 10-35-3, shall set aside land as "open space", as defined in section
Chapter 10-62 "Open Space." For mixed use development, the "type" of
development in
Table 10-35-3 is determined according to the proportion of mix of uses
proposed. All "critical lands" as defined in
Chapter 10-62 "Critical Lands" of this title shall be set aside as permanent
open space and shall not be included in determining open space as required
herein.
Table 10-35-3: Developments requiring Land Set Asides (open space)
Type of Development Minimum Area Required for Open Space (gross land area)
Type of Development                  Minimum Area Required for Open Space
                                     (gross land area)
Residential RCA                      50%
Residential RAC5                     50%
Residential ROS1                     40%
Residential ROS1/2                   35%
Residential RSF*                     30%
Commercial                           0%
Industrial                           0%
Redevelopment                        5%
Recreational Planned Development RPD 70%
Forest Recreation                    95%
Agriculture                          95%
Open Space Conservation OSC          95%
 
*   Development within the Residential Single Family zone (RSF) shall be
required to set aside open space for developments of ten (10) lots or more. The
developer may choose to pay in-lieu fees for open space allowing all of the
developable property to be subdivided excluding all critical lands,
   B.   Exclusions: The following shall be excluded from open space
requirements:
      1.   Development on public land including land dedicated as public
rights-of-way or dedicated as other public land. The land area of public
rights-of-way dedicated for pubic roadways within a development or subdivision
may be deducted from the total land area required for open space.
      2.   Development on land of private utility companies which provides
distribution of electrical power, or natural gas which existed prior to
adoption of this chapter.
      3.   Development within the RSF zone shall not be required to set-a-side
open space for development of nine (9) lots or less. However, if it is apparent
that the development is a subdivision from a larger parcel that will be
developed in later phases, the Planning Commission shall recommend to the City
Council that open space shall be required of the smaller development. A
subdivider may not circumvent the requirement for open space by subdividing and
developing small parcels split off from a larger mother parcel.
      4.   Development or redevelopment on existing legal lots within legal
subdivisions which do not require a Design Review Permit. However, useable
outdoor space is required as specified in
Table 10-35-3.
      5.   Remodeling, renovation, redevelopment and/or change of use of
commercial and industrial uses within the same parcel(s) of land existing at
the time of this ordinance. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019; amd. Ord. 2021-02, 4-21-
2021)
10-35-4: CALCULATION OF REQUIRED OPEN SPACE:
Calculation to determine the land area required for set-aside of open space
shall be based on the total land area of the development parcel(s) excluding
the land area of critical lands and future public lands and/or road rights-of-
way to be dedicated to the public as part of the development plan. Example: If
the total land area of a development parcel is ten (10) acres and one (1) acre
is critical lands and an additional two (2) acres are to be dedicated for
public roads within project, then seven (7) acres of land would be used to
calculated the amount of land required for open space set-aside. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
10-35-5: OPEN SPACE STANDARDS:
   A.   General Standards: The standards for the establishment, maintenance,
and ownership of open space are set forth. In addition to any standards or
requirements stipulated elsewhere in this Ordinance for open space located in a
specific district, the following general standards shall apply to all open
space:
      1.   To the greatest extent practical, open space shall be of a
configuration suited to its specific site context and the purpose for which it
is specifically proposed to be used (e.g. preserve, active or passive park,
playground, walkway/bikeway, agriculture, etc.);
      2.   Where practical, open space shall be contiguous with existing or
imminent future open space. As a rule, the contiguous interconnection shall be
a minimum of twenty (20) feet in linear measure. In its discretion, the
Planning Commission may reduce or waive the contiguous interconnection
requirement when a lesser interconnection is deemed functional, such as for
pedestrian walkways, or where the open space, though non-contiguous with other
open space, is of sufficient size and design to function well and serve as a
public asset;
      3.   A permanent restrictive covenant in the form of a perpetual
conservation easement shall be placed upon open space land requiring its
maintenance as open space, in form and content as approved by the Planning
Commission.
      4.   The minimum land area that shall be designated as open space is
specified in
Table 10-35-3. The minimum land area shall be in addition to any critical lands
within the property.
      5.   All land possessing the constraints of critical lands shall also be
set aside as permanent open space but shall not be included in the
determination of required open space.
      6.   The determination of open space does not include storm water
handling facilities, except as may be useable outdoor space per Section
10-35-2 B.
      7.   The developer may locate and design open space wherever desirable
for the efficient and advantageous use of the property. However, the City may
specify the location and configuration of open space on the property as deemed
necessary to connect adjacent, existing or future open space.
      8.   At no time shall any open space be reduced in size, subdivided,
used, or modified beyond its original intent unless the following actions
occur:
         a.   Amendment to the subdivision plat as prescribed in the Utah Code
Annotated.
         b.   Notification for this action is required for all owners of
property included in the plat when the open space was created. A recommendation
to modify the open space shall be received by the City Council representing at
least sixty six percent (66%) of the property owners.
         c.   Public hearings held as required.
         d.   Recommendation of the Planning Commission.
         e.   Majority vote of the City Council.
      9.   Land outside the proposed property shall not be used in determining
the allowed density of a project.
      10.   Uses Within Open Space: All uses and facilities within open space
developed under the provisions of this title shall be considered conditional
uses and subject to the requirements of conditional uses as described in this
code. Conditional uses are subject to approval and conditions as required by
the Planning Commission and may include:
         a.   Recreation active use - play fields, parks, trails, play grounds,
related parking and accessory uses to the above listed uses, such as, the
preparing and serving of food and beverages, and the sale or rental of
equipment, supplies and facilities in connection with and in support of the
recreational activities engaged in upon the premises.
         b.   Agricultural crop production compatible with adjacent residential
development.
         c.   Conservation areas, including, but not limited to, wilderness
areas, watersheds, wildlife refuges, wetlands, riverways, drainageways and
riparian zones.
         d.   Equestrian facilities;
         e.   Swimming pools;
         f.   Lakes, ponds, and streams;
         g.   Natural landscapes;
         h.   Agricultural crop lands and pasture/grazing lands;
         i.   Conservation easements held by a recognized conservation
organization or other type of ownership as permitted by Section
10-35-4.
         j.   Visual amenities or expanded development setbacks.
         k.   Equestrian facilities.
         l.   Forests and forest experimentation.
         m.   Historic preservation and monument sites.
         n.   Open air theaters and meeting places.
         o.   Public facilities.
         p.   Publicly dedicated open space.
      11.   The following uses are not allowed in open space:
         a.   Motorized vehicles, except farm equipment supporting approved
agricultural uses and maintenance vehicles for open space.
         b.   Signs other than incidental signs for allowed uses;
         c.   Buildings and structures, except those incidental to the use of
the open space as approved by the Planning Commission.
         d.   Rubbish, trash, or storage of vehicles or equipment.
      12.   A land area not exceeding ten percent may be acquired by the City
through open space to facilitate public trail connections.
      13.   All developments with common areas or common facilities shall be
owned and managed by a "homeowner association" as defined in U.C.A § 57-8a.
      14.   The following notation shall be fulfilled and shall be recorded on
the face of the final plat;
"Open Space designated on this ptat shall be maintained in perpetuity and shall
remain in the condition that it was originally intended and shall not be
modified or used for buildings. The City of Wellsville shall have the right,
but not the duty, to require, and if necessary, perform, at the organization's
orowner(s) expense, landscaping, maintenance and snow removal, as applicable,
within the open space areas if the organization or owner(s) fail to adequately
perform such. The City may take this action when asked to take over
improvements or maintenance tasks by the home owner's association or the
property owner(s). The City may also take such action when it determines the
need based on a historical pattern of lack of care and maintenance, in the
event Wellsvilie City exercises this right, the City shall be entitled to
recover any associated costs and attorney fees. This notation shall not be
amended or deleted without the written approval of Wellsville City".
      15.   Leasing, renting or use by any entity or person other than the
homeowners' association of any portion of the open space shall be reviewed and
approved by the Planning Commission for use compatibility.
   B.   Ownership Of Open Space: Open space shall be protected through a
perpetual conservation easement held by the City or by a recognized land trust,
conservancy, or homeowners' association. Ownership shall exist as specified in
Section
10-35-4 . The ownership document shall be reviewed and approved by the City and
recorded at the office of the county recorder. Open space within a development
shall be owned, administered and maintained by any of the following methods,
either individually or in combination, and subject to approval by the City:
      1.   Type 1 - Offer of Dedication: The city shall have the first and last
offer of dedication of open space in the event said land is to be conveyed.
Dedication shall take the form of fee simple ownership. The City may, but shall
not be required to, accept open space; provided, that the Planning Commission
shall consider and make determinations and findings as to the following in its
review of public dedication of open space:
         a.   Such land is accessible to the city and adjacent to a public
right-of-way or legal easement;
         b.   There is no cost of acquisition other than any cost incidental to
the transfer of ownership and
         c.   The city agrees to and has the funds and ability to maintain such
lands. Where the city accepts dedication of open space that contains
improvements, the city may require the posting of financial security to ensure
satisfactory functioning and structural integrity of improvements for a term
not to exceed one (1) year from the date of acceptance of dedication. The
amount of financial security shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the
actual cost of installation of said improvements.
         d.   There shall be documentation of a clear plan for the conveyance
of the open space to the accepting public entity, with a written agreement of
acceptance from said entity. Copies of all documents related to conveyance
shall be filed with the City Attorney.
         e.   There shall be documentation of an agreement as to the condition
of the open space necessary for acceptance and conveyance. This shall include
stipulations as to what improvements, if any, are expected, and whether the
developer or the City is responsible for installation of said improvements. If
the public dedication is part of a request for any bonus under this chapter,
the Planning Commission may require of the developer a reasonable contribution
towards improvement of the open space. The developer may have the option of
actually constructing the improvements or making a monetary contribution to the
City based on the cost estimate of a certified civil engineer, landscape
architect or guaranteed contractor proposal acceptable to the Planning
Commission.
      2.   Type 2 - Homeowners’ Association (HOA): The open space and
associated facilities may be held in common ownership by a homeowners'
association. The HOA shall be formed and operated as prescribed in Section
10-35-4  with the additional provisions:
         a.   The developer shall provide covenants, conditions and
restrictions (CC&Rs) of the association, including its bylaws, articles of
incorporation and methods for maintaining the open space. The CC&Rs shall be
reviewed and approved in content and form by the city. Acceptance of the CC&Rs
by the city will be contingent upon meeting the intent and conditions required
by this code. The CC&Rs will be approved by the City prior to filing the CC&Rs
with the final plat.
         b.   The association shall be organized by the developer and be
operated with financial subsidy by the developer, before the sale of any lots
within the development. The association shall continued to be operated by the
developer for a minimum of two (2) years after sixty percent (60%) of the
development is occupied.
         c.   A narrative describing ownership, use, and maintenance
responsibilities shall be submitted for all common and public improvements,
utilities and open space within critical lands and open space. There shall be
documentation of legally enforceable mechanisms for responsibility of
maintenance of the open space as specified herein.
         d.   Membership in the association is automatic and mandatory for all
purchasers of homes or lots therein and their successors. The conditions and
timing of transferring control of the association from developer to homeowners
shall be identified in the CC&Rs.
         e.   The association shall be responsible for maintenance of insurance
and taxes on open space, enforceable by liens placed by the City.
         f.   The members of the association shall share equitably the costs of
maintaining and developing open space. Fees shall be determined by the
association and assessed and deposited in an escrow account. Shares shall be
defined within the association bylaws.
         g.   The developer of the subdivision shall endow the newly formed
homeowners' association with funds equivalent to ten percent (10%) of the
development cost for all common improvements plus an amount equal to one years
operating expenses to maintain and insure the open space. These funds shall be
used exclusively by the HOA to operate, maintain and insure the HOA for the
first year that the association begins to operate independently of the
developer. Remainder funds, if any, shall be used in for subsequent years.
Funds shall be deposited in a checking account in the name of the HOA within
ten (10) days after the day which the HOA begins to operate independently of
the developer.
         h.   In the event of a proposed transfer, within the methods herein
permitted, of open space by the homeowners' association, or of the assumption
of maintenance of the open space by the City, notice of such action shaii be
given to all property owners within the development.
         i.   All improvements to the open space held in common or intended to
be held in common by the HOA shall be installed, completed and accepted prior
to the beginning of the second phase of construction, or if the project is not
phased, prior to sale of 20% of the total lots in the project. If phasing of
the improvements to the open space is required by the developer, all incomplete
improvements for the open space shall be secured through a bond (Section
10-56-3 ) equal to one hundred fifty (150%) of the estimated value of the
improvements, posted by the developer.
         j.   The association shall have or hire adequate staff to administer
common facilities and properly and continually maintain the open space.
         k.   The homeowners' association may lease open space to any other
qualified person, or corporation, for operation and maintenance of open space
by lease agreement, which shall provide that:
            (1)   The residents of the development shall at all times have
access to the open space contained therein, except that agricultural crops may
not be accessed unless the grower specifically allows;
            (2)   The open space to be leased shall be maintained for the
purposes set forth in this title; and
            (3)   The operation of facilities within the open space may be for
the benefit of the residents only, or may be open to the residents of the City,
at the election of the developer and/or homeowners' association, as the case
may be;
            (4)   The lease shall be subject to the approval of the Planning
Commission specific to the compatibility of use of open space intended by the
lessee.
         l.   A conservation easement shall be established to provide a
permanent preservation of the open space. The easement shall be indicated on
the recorded plat and state the ownership of the easement and reference the
maintenance agreement also recorded with the final plat stating the standards
of upkeep as defined in these subdivision regulations.
      3.   Type 3 - Transfer of Easements to Private Conservation Organization:
With the approval of the Planning Commission, an owner may transfer easements
or ownership to a private nonprofit organization, among whose purposes it is to
conserve land; provided, that:
         a.   The organization is acceptable to the Planning Commission and is
a bona fide conservation organization recognized by the Internal Revenue
Service as a 501c3 organization with perpetual existence;
         b.   The conveyance contains appropriate provision for proper
reversion or retransfer in event that the organization becomes unwilling or
unable to continue carrying out its functions; and
         c.   A maintenance agreement acceptable to the Planning Commission is
entered into by the developer/owner, the City, and the organization.
   C.   Maintenance Standards: The following standards for maintenance shall be
fulfilled for all opens space:
      1.   The owner of the open space shall be responsible for maintenance and
the raising of all monies required for operations, maintenance or physical
improvements to the open space through annua! dues, special assessments, etc.
The maintenance organization shall be authorized, under its bylaws, to place
liens on the property of residents who fall delinquent in payment of such dues,
assessments, etc.
      2.   In the event that the maintenance organization, or any successor
organization, shall, at any time after establishment of a development
containing open space, fail to maintain the open space in reasonable order and
condition, the City may serve written notice upon the owner of record, setting
forth the manner in which the owner of record has failed to maintain the open
space in reasonable condition.
      3.   Failure to adequately maintain the open space in reasonable order
and condition constitutes a violation of this title. The City is hereby
authorized to give notice, by personal delivery or by United States Postal
Service, to the owner or occupant, as the case may be, of any violation,
directing the owner to remedy the same within thirty (30) days. Further, the
City shall be authorized to assume maintenance of the open space in such a
manner as it deems appropriate.
      4.   Should any bill or bills for maintenance of the open space by the
City be unpaid by January 1 of each year, a lien shall be filed against the
premises in the same manner as other municipal claims. The City shall be
entitled to recover any costs and attorney fees incurred in collecting or
recovering any such amounts due to the City.
      5.   Access by Public Upon Completion Of Improvements Within Open Space.
The public shall have access, when mutually agreed by all parties, including
the City. Lots designed with rear facing open space shall be accessible at all
times and all locations. At no time shall public access be denied unless unsafe
conditions exist or unless approved by the City. Public access within open
space shall be allowed only where identified and allowed within the approval
documents. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 5-19-2021)
10-35-6: IN LIEU SUBSTITUTIONS FOR OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: The City finds that land in other locations may be substituted
for open space requirements where it is advantageous to preserve important and
critical land within the limits or in locations outside city limits that are
included in the future annexation area of the City. For this purpose,
developers may choose to receive additional incentives in lieu of developing
the land required for open space if equivalent or greater land is identified
and substituted in another location(s) and acceptable to the City. A method
called "in lieu substitution" or "in lieu open space substitutions",
hereafter.) The following conditions shall apply to in lieu open space
substitutions:
      1.   As an incentive or bonus for providing open space, the Planning
Commission may grant density, coverage, or height bonuses to developments
providing additional open space where ever open space set asides are required
in Sections 10-11-20 and 10-11-21.
      2.   Recordation of a final plat for a subdivision utilizing an approved
density bonus and an in-lieu substitution may not occur until in lieu
substitutions are approved, finalized, and effective.
      3.   An in-lieu substitution may be approved, for open space land in
another location, only when such proposed in lieu substitution of open space
land is absent hazards to development such as, but not limited to, steep
slopes, geologic hazards, unstable soils, flood plains, wetlands, riparian
areas, water source protection areas. In no case shall hazardous lands be used
for the original development density or the bonus density. Where agricultural
land is being substituted, equally productive or more productive agricultural
land must be substituted.
      4.   For in lieu substitutions, use of the open space land shall be
limited to the uses allowed in open spaces in Section
10-35-4 .
      5.   In lieu substitutions of land intended to fulfill the requirements
for open space may be allowed when it is factually established, by a qualified
land appraiser, that the substituted land is at least equal to or greater than
the value of land compared with the development property as if developed fully
as proposed. The City must agree to and approve the land area to be appraised
both from the original site and the proposed substituted site prior to the
appraisal. The appraiser will be selected by and contract with the City. The
fees for the appraisals will be reimbursed to the City at cost by the
developer.
      6.   Any land which has been dedicated, set-aside, platted, or otherwise
approved as open space may not be substituted or used for any purpose other
than those allowed in Section
10-35-5 .
   B.   Land for in-lieu open space substitutions shall not be eligible for
substitution outside of the corporate boundaries of Wellsville City. Except,
the Planning Commission may approve land inside the future annexation area as
defined in the Annexation Plan which is outside of the current corporate
limits. Such land must contribute to the purposes of open space as defined
herein.
   C.   Types of Open Space Substitutions Available; The following options are
available to developers to propose to the City for in lieu substitutions for
bonus and open space requirements:
      1.   Cash in lieu: The City may, at its sole discretion, accept cash in
lieu of open space requirements where such funds can be more effectively used
to acquire land at a more appropriate or significant location consistent with
the General Plan, the Parks and Recreation Master Plan, the Annexation Plan and
other adopted documents identifying substitute sites for open space. Cash in
lieu payments shall not be accepted until a qualified appraisal, authorized by
the City and at the cost of the applicant, identifying the value of the
original land for which the in-lieu substitution is proposed, based on the use
that will be permitted if the open space requirement is removed, and for which
cash in lieu shall be offered. The City shall be obligated to use in lieu funds
for uses identified in Section 10-35-5, above, and shall diligently pursue
purchase of the land for this purpose to prevent erosion of purchasing power.
      2.   Land in lieu: The City may, at its sole discretion, accept land in
lieu of open space requirements under the following conditions:
         a.   The proposed land to be substituted is consistent with the
General Plan, the Parks and Recreation Master Plan, the Annexation Plan and
other adopted documents identifying substitute sites for open space.
         b.   Other land is acceptable to and approved by the City as open
space in a location determined by the City to be a substitute site;
         c.   Acceptable and approved land is dedicated to the City with
unencumbered title; and
         d.   in lieu substitution for open space is retained in use and
ownership consistent with other acceptable forms of open space ownership in
this chapter.
      3.   Purchase of Development Rights: The City may, at its sole
discretion, accept the purchase of development rights by the developer to meet
in lieu of open space requirements under the following conditions:
         a.   Other land of sufficient size and value is acceptable to and
approved by the City as open space in a location determined by the City to be
an in-lieu substitute site for the purchase of development rights by the
applicant;
         b.   The proposed land to be substituted is consistent with the
General Plan, the Parks and Recreation Master Plan,, the Annexation Plan and
other adopted documents identifying substitute sites for open space.
         c.   Land where development rights are purchased by the applicant
shall be subject to a recorded conservation easement that runs with the land
and exists in perpetuity. The conservation easement shall be held by a
recognized conservation organization acceptable to the City, and subject to the
requirements for such ownership as stated in Section
10-35-4 B.3 of this Chapter. All documentation shall be reviewed and approved
by the City;
      d.   Cost of the purchase of development rights by the applicant is
equivalent to the value of the original land for which the in-lieu substitution
for open space is proposed, based on the use that will be permitted if the open
space requirement is removed, and for which purchase of development rights
shall be offered; and
      e.   Uses of the land within the conservation easement are consistent
with other acceptable forms of open space ownership and uses in this chapter.
      f.   The recordation of the final plat shall not occur until the
documents evidencing the purchase of development rights and all conservation
easements are ready to be recorded simultaneously with the final plat and not
until the purchase prices for all development rights and all conservation
easements are paid in full, in order to provide marketable title to the City,
without encumbrances not accepted by the City
   D.   In lieu substitution applications shall first be reviewed by the
Planning Commission as a part of the initial application for Design Review
Permit. Approval of the in lieu substitution shall be obtained from the City
Council before recordation of the Final Plat or issuance of a building permit,
which ever occurs first.
   E.   The provisions of
Chapter 10-35  shall be effective for all applications for Design Review Permit
filed on or after the effective date of this ordinance; provided, however, the
Planning Commission and the Mayor shall have the authority to approve an in
lieu substitution for open space for an existing subdivision or development
containing approved open space, subject to such application first being
submitted to the Planning Commission for its consideration and recommendation
to the Mayor. If the in-lieu substitution application is approved, the
applicant shall comply with all applicable land use laws of the City and State.
   F.   Nothing contained in this
Chapter 10-35  shall be construed as restricting the use of the Utah Open and
Public Meetings Act, Utah Code Sections 52-4-101, et seq., and as they might be
amended, by the City Council, Planning Commission, and other City Officials, to
hold closed meetings, as reasonably determined necessary, for all purposes
therein allowed, including strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange,
lease or sale of real property, as contemplated herein. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-35-7: REZONING OF OPEN SPACE:
Upon approval of a development application that provides for open space under
the terms of this Chapter, the Planning Commission shall consider the potential
rezoning of the open space as part of the Open Space Conservation (OSC) Zone
set forth herein, and shall make a recommendation to the City Council using the
following criteria:
   A.   Upon acceptance of any public dedicated open space, said open space
shall be included as part of the Open Space Conservation (OSC) Zone of this
Title.
   B.   Where open space is retained in private ownership and is provided in
response to the open space requirements, said open space shall be rezoned as
part of the Open Space Conservation (OSC) Zone upon the recommendation of the
Planning Commission and its finding that the open space complies with all
requirements of the Open Space Conservation (OSC) Zone.
   C.   In all cases, the rezoning of open space shall be in accordance with
the amendment procedure set forth herein. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 36
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-36-1: Purpose
10-36-2: Open Space
10-36-3: Private Streets
10-36-4: Private Drives
10-36-5: Street Trees
10-36-6: Waste Management Facilities Onsite
10-36-7: Public Facilities
10-36-8: Warranty
10-36-9: Common Area Development Requirements
10-36-10: Exterior Lighting
10-36-11: Shared Access
10-36-12: Access Adjoining Major Streets
10-36-13: Driveway Specifications
10-36-14: Driveway Location And Spacing
10-36-15: Fences And Walls
10-36-16: Trails
10-36-17: Self Service
10-36-18: Adult-Oriented Businesses
10-36-19: Cluster Mailboxes Required
10-36-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for uniform application of
development standards and specifications as a condition of project approval and
permit issuance for all development permits, subdivisions, building permits,
conditional use permits, design review permits, or other permit issued by the
City. The standards of this chapter are in addition to other provisions of the
Wellsville City Code and the Design Standards and Construction Specifications
as approved by the City. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-36-2: OPEN SPACE:
The standards for open space development are specific to conditions of approval
for open space set aside (See
Chapter 10-35, Open Space Requirements). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-36-3: PRIVATE STREETS:
All privately owned streets shall be designed, built, and maintained to the
same standard as public streets (see adopted Design Standards and Construction
Specifications, and Design Criteria). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-36-4: PRIVATE DRIVES:
Reserved. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-36-5: STREET TREES:
Street trees shall be required as a condition of all project approvals (Section
10-39-6) The tree species and locations of plantings shall be as specified in
City Trees and Beautification plan. Street trees shall be planted at the time
of issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy or construction of sidewalks,
whichever occurs first. For subdivisions, the Planning Commission may require
posting of improvement security to guarantee the availability of funds adequate
to cover the cost of purchasing and installing street trees. All streets within
the public right-of-way shall be maintained in a safe and healthy condition by
the adjacent property own. Street trees shall not be planted in the site
distance triangle (
Chapter 10-61 Site Distance Triangle). Street trees are the property of the
city and shall not be removed without a permit. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-36-6: WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES ONSITE:
Solid waste receptacles, recycling bins, and refuse storage shall be sited in
locations approved by the provider of Waste Management Collection. All waste
disposal areas shall be screened with solid fencing, such as masonry, wood, or
vinyl. No waste disposal facilities shall be located between the structure and
a public right-of-way, unless specifically approved by the decision-makers with
a finding that no screened site exists. Publicly accessible recycling
facilities may be located between the structure and the right-of-way, provided
that the facility is kept in a neat appearance with regular collection and
cleanup in the general area. All waste management facilities shall be screened
with landscaping. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-36-7: PUBLIC FACILITIES:
   A.   Public Facilities, Road Rights-of-Way, and Public Utility Easements:
      1.   The City may require a project proponent to reserve lands within a
project site for a public facility. Such request shall be made in conformance
with the laws related to municipal property acquisition.
      2.   The City may require dedication of lands for public utility
easements, road right-of-way, and for other public purposes without
compensation in conformance with the requirements of Utah law and this Title.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-36-8: WARRANTY:
Public improvements performed by or on behalf of private development shall be
guaranteed for a period of two (2) years after the date of acceptance. The
improvements shall be guaranteed against settlement, break up, failure or
inability to satisfactorily function as required, lack of adequate drainage.
The City may require or retain security to assure performance of improvements
during the guarantee period. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-36-9: COMMON AREA DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All developments with common areas or common facilities shall be owned
and managed by a "homeowner association" as defined in U.C.A. § 57-8a-102.
   B.   The homeowner association shall adopt City approved covenants,
conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs), bylaws and rules for the association. The
bylaws and rues for the association shall provide for enforcement of the CC&Rs,
including the assessing of fines for violations.
   C.   Prior to the issuance of any permits, the developer shall file a lien
in favor of the homeowner association against each residential lot equal to the
pro rata share of ten percent of the total cost of the common area and facility
improvements. Upon payment of the liens, the homeowner association shall place
the proceeds in a restricted fund to be used solely for the maintenance, repair
and replacement of the common area and facility improvements. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
10-36-10: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of the exterior lighting code to ensure the
rights of all property owners to light their own properties. Individual
property owners have a right to light their own properties. Property owners do
not have the right to adversely illuminated other properties. Exterior lighting
by one property owner can adversely affect the right of privacy and enjoyment
of another property owner. A property owner who is adversely illuminating
another's property is not protected by the "legally existing non-conforming"
provisions of this title because compliance can be achieved with simple,
economical methods. Lighting compliance is expected of all property owners.
      a.   If the luminaires are less than eight hundred (800) lumens per
fixture or if the fixture uses one sixty (60) watt incandescent lamp, provided
the light fixture has an opaque top or is completely recessed in a soffit.
      b.   Building soffit lighting that is recessed beyond the surface of the
soffit material and does not exceed luminary limits of 2a above.
      c.   Floodlights with external shielding of the light source and angled
downward at least thirty (30) degrees, or sufficiently, to prevent lighting of
adjacent properties.
      d.   Lights used only to light athletic courts when all reasonable
measures have been taken to minimize lighting of surrounding properties. Such
lighting shall not operate later than ten o’clock (10:00) p.m. All adjacent
luminaires surrounding an athletic complex are not exempt.
   E.   Existing lighting on all properties: Properties that have installed
exterior lighting prior to the adoption date of this code shall be considered
non-conforming with lighting requirement of this title. When existing lights
adversely affect the privacy of adjacent property owners and are deemed to be a
nuisance, the following process shall be used to resolve the concerns of
adjacent property owners:
      1.   Written complaints will be accepted from property owners and/or
occupants adversely affected by lights from other properties. Photographs
depicting the detrimental lighting shall be included with the complaint.
Complaints shall not be anonymous.
If it is determined that a complaint is valid and subject lights do not comply
with these requirements, the city shall send a letter to require relief for
adjacent property owners by voluntary compliance. A complaint shall be
determined valid if an unshielded source of the light can be seen from adjacent
properties and if it is determined that it is reasonable to take enforcement
action. The compliance letter shall suggest economical ways to conform, such
as, changing luminaries to reduce lighting, shielding the light source at the
light fixture with paint or tape, or removing lights, dimming lights, and/or
turning lights off during normal sleeping hours. The letter shall include a
date for the property owner to comply.
      2.   If compliance is not achieved by the date to comply, the City shall
process a Notice of Violation beginning the Administrative Enforcement
procedures prescribed in Chapter 10.60.
   D.   Height and Placement of Exterior Luminaires: Parking area luminaires
shall not emit light beyond the property lines of the development. The light
source within the luminary must be concealed and not visible from adjacent
properties. Freestanding luminaires on private property in residential zones
shall be no taller than twelve (12) feet. Luminaires for public street lights
and public athletic fields are exempt from height regulations. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019; amd. Ord. 2021-05, 6-2-2021)
10-36-11: SHARED ACCESS:
Shared access between adjoining parcels is strongly encouraged. It may be
required by the Planning Commission as condition of project approval. Shared
access may be required if the property owner owns or controls adjoining
property and/or it is feasible for separate property owners to enter into an
agreement. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-36-12: ACCESS ADJOINING MAJOR STREETS:
   A.   On Arterial and Major Collector Streets, whenever a project proposes
access to an arterial street or major collector street, whether the streets are
existing or proposed, limited access to the street shall be required:
      1.   The determination shall be consistent with the City of Wellsville
2009 Transportation Plan and General Plan.
      2.   The determination shall be based upon the recommendation of the City
Engineer.
      3.   When frontage roads or alternative access are used, "no access
easements" may be required between the project and the road to which access is
limited.
         a.   No new driveway access shall be permitted to directly access
streets whenever officially designated as limited access streets:
         b.   If there are no alternatives for access utilizing existing side
streets or rights-of-way, the decision-makers may approve access to a limited
access street as follows:
            (1)   Frontage roads may be required to create a shared access
between the subject property and adjoining properties to limit the number of
points of access;
            (2)   Driveways, if permitted, shall be required to be aligned on
the City's grid system by either:
               A.   Aligning with existing driveways across from the proposed
new driveway location;
               B.   Aligning the driveways in locations approved by the
Planning Commission to create safe driveway separations and accommodate other
potential driveways within the project area.
            (3)   If the project is a subdivision, the decision-makers may
reduce the number of lots within a subdivision to accommodate a frontage road;
or
            (4)   The decision-makers may approve an access to a street if it
is designed to be or become a shared access;
         c.   The decision-makers shall require that the access be developed to
serve as an interior project street to provide access to multiple properties.
         d.   No new residential driveways shall be permitted to access the
excluded streets if there is any other location for access. If a legally
existing lot is proposed for development and there are no alternative points of
access, the Planning Commission may approve one residential driveway with a
maximum width of twenty two feet (22') at the right-of-way.
         e.   If a lot has been created in violation of subdivision
regulations, the Planning Commission may require driveways for illegally
created lots to conform to the provisions of this chapter.
         f.   Other access limitations as defined in the General Plan.
   B.   Alternate Access Required: The Planning Commission shall consider the
long-term needs of the City in maintaining local and regional transportation
corridors in the approval of any subdivisions pursuant to this Title. The
Planning Commission may reduce density, reduce the number of driveways or
change driveway locations, or impose other design considerations in order to
avoid or prohibit access to arterials and major collectors and to preserve
future transportation corridors. The Planning Commission may require road
right-of-way stubs or connections to adjoining properties for purposes of
future road development whether or not the adjoining properties are proposed
for development at the present time, The Planning Commission may require the
dedication of the extended right-of-way if adjoining zoning or site development
potential results in the need for a logical future connections or a future
roadway on the city block grid. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-36-13: DRIVEWAY SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Residential Driveways:
      1.   Driveways shall lead to a garage or parking area located outside of
the front, side and rear setbacks. Driveways serving residential developments
shall be not less than twelve feet (12') in width for single lane driveways.
Driveways in this classification shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in width.
      2.   Only one driveway is permitted on a single family residential lot,
except as specified in section
10-36-13(B) for circular driveways.
      3.   More than one (1) driveway may be permitted for multi-dwelling
structures, if approved as a part of the design review permit for new
construction or with a right-of-way access permit.
   Figure 10-36-13A: Driveway Standards
 
Single Frontage Lots (min. Number of Driveways allowed Width Between Circular
lot width)                                             Drives
82.5' - 100'               1                           NA
More than 100'             2                           6'
Corner Lots
(min. lot width both frontages)
82.5' - 100'               1                           NA
More than 100'             2                           6'
 
On corner lots new drives shall be located adjacent to the property line as far
away from the intersection of the street as possible. Circular drives are not
allowed on the corner lots if both frontages have a drive.
   B.   Circular Driveways: Circular driveways may be permitted by the Planning
Commission and City Engineer for residential development on minor collector or
residential streets. Maximum driveway width of a circular drive shall be ten
feet within the property and twelve feet (12') at the street. Circular
driveways shall only be permitted if the lot frontage is greater than one
hundred feet (100') in width or a corner iot with at least one hundred feet
(100') of clearance from edge of pavement on the intersection for each
driveway. A right-of-way access permit shall be required.
   C.   Non Residential Driveways:
      1.   Entry (ingress) lanes shall be limited to a maximum width of sixteen
feet (16'), except as noted in this subsection.
      2.   Exit (egress) lanes shall be at least twelve feet wide with one lane
for each turning movement. If there is a lateral (straight across) alignment
approved by the decision-makers, there shall be a third twelve-foot (12') lane
for straight traffic.
      3.   Typical non-residential driveway width shall be forty feet (40')
(one sixteen foot (16') ingress lane and two twelve foot (12') egress lanes)
with a maximum established at fifty-two feet (52') when approved by the
Planning Commission.
      4.   The Planning Commission may approve varied widths based on site
specific and project specific conditions and traffic safety. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019)
10-36-14: DRIVEWAY LOCATION AND SPACING:
   A.   Commercial Zoning Districts: The following standards apply to all
development in the CC, CG, HT, PUB, REC zoning districts.
      1.   Number of Driveways: One driveway is allowed per lot or one driveway
per three hundred feet of street frontage, whichever is greater, unless a
greater number is approved by the City Engineer.
      2.   Driveway Width: The maximum width of a driveway providing access to
public right-of-way is forty feet (40'). The Planning Commission may require
that driveways wider than twenty four feet (24') be constructed with a
landscape island or divider median to separate ingress and egress traffic.
      3.   Driveway Spacing: Driveways shall be spaced at least one hundred
feet (100') from other driveways and street intersections, unless otherwise
approved by the City Engineer. Spacing is measured from nearest edge to edge.
   B.   Industrial Zoning Districts: The following standards apply to all
development in the IND zoning district.
      1.   Number of Driveways: One driveway is allowed per lot or per three
hundred feet (300') of street frontage, whichever is greater, unless otherwise
approved by the City Engineer.
      2.   Driveway Width: The maximum width of a driveway providing access to
public right-of-way is fifty-two feet (52'). The Planning Commission may
require that driveways wider than twenty-four feet (24') be constructed with a
landscape island or divider median to separate ingress and egress traffic.
      3.   Driveway Spacing: Driveways shall be spaced at least one hundred
feet (100') from other driveways and street intersections, unless otherwise
approved by the City Engineer. Spacing is measured from nearest edge to edge.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-36-15: FENCES AND WALLS:
   A.   Purpose and intent: Fences and walls are part of the built environment
and visual make-up of the City. This section is intended to provide development
standards for fencing specific within the City.
   B.   Applicability: The standards of the chapter apply to all public and
private development, unless otherwise specifically stated in this chapter.
   C.   Exemption: Government incarceration facilities, impound lots, and
agricultural operations or similar land uses.
   D.   Fence Height: Fence or wall height shall be measured from the highest
existing grade within a ten foot (10') radius of the proposed fence location.
It is prohibited to build grade up to a higher level in order to increase the
allowed fence height. Fence and wall heights shall be as follows;
      1.   For all Residential zoning districts, fences, and walls shall be a
maximum of three feet (3') tall within the front setback. Fences and walls
shall be a maximum of six feet (6') tall within the rear and side setbacks
behind the front plane of the primary structure. Lots with multiple street
frontages may install a six foot (6') tall fence or wall at a twelve foot (12')
setback from the property line on the side(s) yard other than the declared
front yard.
      2.   For all non-residential zoning districts, fences, and walls shall be
a maximum of three feet (3') tall within the front setback and a maximum of
eight feet (8') tall in the rear and side setbacks behind the front plane of
the primary structure. Lots with multiple street frontages may install a six
foot (6') tall fence or wall at a twelve foot (12') setback from the property
line on the side(s) yard other than the declared front yard.
   E.   Fence Standards:
      1.   Location: Fences and walls shall be installed outside of the Site
Distance Triangle. All fence and wall sections shall be installed outside of
Public Rights-of-Way.
      2.   Replacement and Repair: The property owner is responsible to repair,
replace or remove any unsafe or structurally unsound sections of fencing or
walls. If a fence or wall is more than twenty (20) degrees beyond plumb it
shall be considered structurally unsafe and correction or removal will be
required.
   F.   Prohibited Fences: The following fences shall be prohibited in all
zoning districts unless otherwise specifically authorized:
      1.   Razor Wire.
      2.   Barbed Wire (unless associated with agricultural operations).
      3.   Electrically Charged Fencing (unless associated with agricultural
operations).
      4.   Chain Link Fence within the front setback.
      5.   Highly reflective or metallic fencing or wall materials.
   G.   Fence Permits:
      1.   All fences and walls shall have a permit issued by the Planning
Commission prior to installation. Failure to obtain a fence permit may result
in enforcement actions pursuant to
Chapter 10-60;
      2.   Permit applications shall require dimensioned drawings showing the
layout and location of all proposed fences and walls;
      3.   Permit applications shall indicate fence height and materials for
all proposed fence sections;
      4.   Some fences or walls may require an additional approval from the
Planning Commission, the Historic Preservation Committee, or both.
      5.   Inspections: Inspections may be required upon receiving a citizen
complaint, or if determined to be unsafe by the Chief Building Official.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2671.png]
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-36-16: TRAILS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: Trails are an essential part of the infrastructure
of Wellsville City. They provide transportation options, improve pedestrian and
cycling circulation, decrease vehicle congestion, promote healthy recreational
activity and connect people to nature. Trails shall be integrated into existing
roadway corridors, along existing waterways and through undeveloped natural
areas of the City to create an efficient trail network connecting
neighborhoods, schools, churches, commercial areas, industrial parks and
adjacent regional recreational lands.
   B.   Applicability: These standards apply to all public and private
development, new construction, subdivisions and major remodeling unless
otherwise specifically stated in this chapter.
   C.   Exemption: Minor improvements to existing development that do not
result in more than a ten percent (10%) increase in a building floor area are
exempt from the standards of this chapter.
   D.   Trail Standards:
      1.   Urban Trails: Urban Trail design shall conform to the adopted road/
walk/trail cross sections within the Design Standards and Construction
Specifications.
      2.   Primitive Trails: Primitive Trail Design shall conform to the Design
Standards and Construction Specifications. Primitive Trail networks should
follow natural systems and corridors and make connections to adjacent regional
trail systems. Trail layout shall minimize impacts on significant environmental
features.
   E.   Trails Master Plan shall identify existing and proposed trail
locations. The Plan shall identify Urban and Primitive Trail designations and
shall assign priority rankings to all proposed trails sections based on
contiguous length created, ease of construction and overall network
connectivity. See figure
10-36-16.
   F.   Implementation Of Trails:
      1.   Dedicated trail projects independent of new developments,
subdivisions and major remodeling determined eligible by the Planning
Commission shall have trails sections constructed as per priority ranking and
as funding and resources become available to the Park Recreation.
      2.   New public and private development, subdivisions and major
remodeling projects increasing the finished floor area by more than ten percent
(10%) and determined eligible by the Planning Commission shall follow locations
and connections shown on the Trails Master Plan. Private trails shall connect
to nearby or adjacent trails systems as may and/or exist or as shown on the
trials master plan.
Figure 10-36-16F2: Trails Master Plan
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2673.png]
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-36-17: SELF-STORAGE:
   A.   Purpose: The additional requirements for Self-Storage uses are intended
to ensure that this form of storage unit project is developed to reduce adverse
consequences on surrounding properties and require that the long-term
appearance of storage units is maintained.
   B.   Standards: The following standards are required for Self-Storage
development:
      1.   All other development standards as required in Title 10.
      2.   Specific requirements of the zone where proposed to be located and
where allowed.
      3.   Standard screening and setback requirements shall be increased by
one hundred percent (100%). Storage of any kind is prohibited in required
setbacks.
      4.   All outside storage shall be located at the rear of the property,
completely screened from public view by a solid screen fence approved through a
design review permit.
      5.   Storage units adjacent to any public roadway shall be single loaded
with the back of the units facing the street and doorways of the units facing
inward toward other storage units.
      6.   Front yard setbacks shall be landscaped and screened with a
combination of deciduous and coniferous trees and shrubs to cause at least a
fifty percent (50%) screen within five (5) years. Trees must be planted at two
and one-half inch (2-1/2") caliper. Shrubs must be planted at least five (5)
gallon nursery stock.
      7.   All side yard and rear yard setbacks shall be landscaped and
screened with a combination of deciduous and coniferous trees and shrubs to
cause at least a twenty five percent (25%) screen within five (5) years. Trees
must be planted at one and one-half inch (1-1/2") caliper. Shrubs must be
planted at least one (1) gallon nursery stock.
      8.   Building design and must meet all requirements of sections
10-18-1 and 10-18-8.
      9.   All setbacks are required to be irrigated by an automatic sprinkler
irrigation system.
      10.   The developer shall landscape and grade the street facing frontage
using one of the following options:
   Figure 10-36-40 Options for Design of Self Storage
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2675.png]
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-36-18: ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent the concentration of adult-oriented businesses
or their location in areas deleterious to the City, regulate the signage of
such businesses, control the adverse effects of such signage, and prevent
inappropriate exposure of such Chapter 10-36 Development Standards businesses
to the community. The chapter is to be construed as a regulation of time,
place, and manner of the operation of these businesses, consistent with the
United States and Utah Constitutions.
   B.   Location of Businesses - Restrictions:
      1.   Adult oriented business shall be conditionally permitted in the
Industrial (IND) district subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   No adult-oriented business shall be located:
         a.   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any school, public park,
library, or religious institution;
         b.   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any residential use (no
matter which zoning district) or residential zoning boundary;
         c.   Within six hundred feet (600') of any other adult-oriented
business;
         d.   Within six hundred feet (600') of any gateway or gateway corridor
as identified in this Title and the General Plan. The distance shall be
measured from the edge of the right-of-way.
      3.   Distance requirements between structures and uses specified in this
section shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or zoning districts, from the perimeter property boundaries of the
school, public park, religious or cultural activity, residential use, or other
adult-oriented business, or from the edge of right-of-way of a gateway to the
structure of the adult-oriented business.
      4.   Distance requirements from zoning districts for this section shall
be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
zoning districts, from the closest zoning boundary of a residential or
agricultural district to the adult-oriented business structure.
   C.   Effect on Non-Conforming Businesses: All lawfully established, legally
existing, non-conforming adult-oriented businesses, shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter by December 31, 2014, except in the case in which a
business is required to be relocated. In such cases where relocation is
required for conformance with this section, the business shall have complied by
December 31, 2015.
   D.   Signs: Signs for adult-oriented businesses shall be subject to the
limitations of this section regardless of standards within Chapter 10-40 of the
Wellsville Municipal Code.
      1.   No more than one exterior building-mounted sign shall be permitted;
      2.   No sign shall exceed eighteen (18) square feet in total sign area;
      3.   No animation shall be permitted on or around any sign or on the
exterior walls or roof of such premises;
      4.   No descriptive art or designs depicting any activity related to or
inferring the nature of the business shall be permitted on any sign. Signs
shall contain alphanumeric copy only.
      5.   Only flat wall signs shall be permitted; awnings shall be permitted
only to display the street number in letters or numbers no greater than eight
inches (8") in height;
      6.   Painted wall advertising shall not be allowed
      7.   Other than the signs specifically allowed by this chapter, the
adult-oriented business shall not attach, construct, or allow to be attached or
constructed any temporary sign, banner, light, or other device designed to draw
attention to the business location. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-36-19: CLUSTER MAILBOXES REQUIRED:
   A.   General: In all new residential subdivisions, mailboxes shall be
installed by the subdivider in clusters of locked mailboxes (groupings of
multiple mailboxes) as approved by the United States Postal Service and the
City.
   B.   Location: Mail boxes shall be located as required by the U.S. Postal
Service as specified in current regulations of the Salt Lake District. The
mailboxes shall not reduce the intended width of the public sidewalk. The
developer shall show the location of the clusters of locked mailboxes on the
preliminary plat and on the final plat of all subdivisions. The clusters of
locked mailboxes may be in the City right-of-way, but they shall not be
dedicated to the City. The placement of the Cluster Mailbox shall avoid
underground utilities to the greatest extent possible.
   C.   Maintain Plan Required: The subdivider shall submit a maintenance plan
for the cluster of locked mailboxes along with his application for the approval
of the final plat for the subdivision. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 37
RESERVED
CHAPTER 38
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-38-1: Purpose
10-38-2: General
10-38-3: Off-Street Parking Schedules
10-38-4: Rules For Computing Requirements
10-38-5: Alternative Parking Plan
10-38-6: Findings
10-38-7: Vehicle Stacking Capacity In Drive-Through Lanes
10-38-8: Residential Parking
10-38-9: Commercial And Industrial Parking
10-38-10: Bicycle Parking
10-38-11: Parking For Persons With Disabilities
10-38-12: Use Of Required Parking Spaces
10-38-13: Access And Driveways
10-38-14: Landscaping
10-38-15: Setbacks For Parking
10-38-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the development of
parking facilities, access to private and public property, and ensure public
health and safety with facilities which safely accommodate vehicles, bicycles,
and pedestrians. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-38-2: GENERAL:
   A.   Applicability:
      1.   New Development: The off-street parking standards of this chapter
apply to any new development and to any new use established.
      2.   Expansions and Alterations: The off-street parking standards of this
chapter apply when an existing structure or use is expanded or enlarged.
Additional off-street parking spaces shall be required only to serve the
enlarged or expanded area, not the entire building or use. The decisionmaking
body may require increases in parking for non-conforming parking areas when
found necessary to ensure adequate off-street parking.
Example: Implementation of Parking Requirements When A Business Changes Use In
An Existing Building
         1.   A business which was required to provide 10 parking spaces
vacates its site. A new business or use which then occupies the site requires
15 parking spaces. The new business is required to provide 5 more parking
spaces.
         2.   A business has 8 parking spaces. The current code requires 10
spaces. The business vacates and a new business opens requiring 15 spaces. The
new business only needs to provide 5 additional parking spaces. It is not
required to resolve the deficiency of legally existing non-conforming parking
spaces. Only a total of 13 parking spaces need be provided.
      3.   Change of Use: Off-street parking shall be required for any change
of use or change of operation that would result in a requirement for more
parking than the existing use. Additional parking shall be required only in
proportion to the extent of the change, not for the entire building or use.
      4.   Areas for deliveries and loading shall be required, as a part of any
required permit, to ensure that loading and deliveries do not constrain fire
access, street safety, or use public streets for deliveries.
   B.   No Reduction Below Minimums: Existing parking spaces shall not be
reduced below the minimum requirements in this chapter. Any change in use that
increases applicable off-street parking requirements will be deemed a violation
of the Land Use Regulations unless parking is provided in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-38-3: OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULES:
   A.   Off-Street Parking Requirements: The "Off-Street Parking Schedule"
Table 10-38-4 lists the minimum off-street parking requirement for each use
category defined in the Land Use Regulations. These requirements apply unless
an Alternative Parking Plan is reviewed and approved in accordance with Section
10-38-6. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-38-4: RULES FOR COMPUTING REQUIREMENTS:
The following rules apply when computing off-street parking and loading
requirements:
   A.   Multiple Uses Lots containing more than one use shall provide parking
in an amount equal to the total of the requirements for all uses. The decision-
makers may award a reduction of not more than fifteen percent (15%) when it can
be found that the uses within the business or development share general
customer traffic.
   B.   Fractions When measurements of the number of required spaces result in
fractions, any fraction of one-half or less will be disregarded and any
fraction of more than one-half will be rounded upward to the next highest whole
number.
   C.   Area Measurements Unless otherwise specifically noted, all square
footage-based parking and loading standards are to be computed on the basis of
gross floor area.
   D.   Occupancy-Based Standards For the purpose of computing parking
requirements based on employees, students, residents or occupants, calculations
shall be based on the largest number of persons working on any single shift,
the maximum enrollment or the maximum fire-rated capacity, whichever is
applicable and whichever results in the greater number of spaces.
   E.   Unlisted Uses Upon receiving a development application for a use not
specifically listed in an off-street parking schedule, the Planning Commission
shall apply the off-street parking standard specified for the listed use that
is deemed most similar to the proposed use or require a parking study in
accordance with this chapter.
   Table 10-38-4: Parking by Land Use Category
Unless otherwise states, calculations using square footage shall mean Gross Leasable Area.
Land uses with unique parking characteristics refer to the subsection following this table.
The number of parking spaces specified in this chapter shall not be exceeded or reduced by an amount of more than twenty-
five percent of the minimum (or maximum is applicable).
Bicycle parking standards refer to the subsection
10-38-10 .
Category       Specific Uses                                                                    Number of Spaces Required
                                                                                           Minimum     Maximum   Bike
Residential Uses
               Assisted Living Center                                                        Alternative           N/A
                                                                                             1 per
                                                                                             occupant
               Nursing Home, Convalescent Home                                               plus 1      N/A       N/A
                                                                                             guest per 6
                                                                                             required
                                                                                             spaces
               Caregiver, Certified NA or CA                                                 Alternative           N/A
                                                                                             1 per
                                                                                             occupant
Group Living   Care, training, or treatment IS provided on site where other types of         plus 1
               occupancy exceeds the maximum occupancy allowed by the base zoning district.  guest space N/A       N/A
                                                                                             per 6
                                                                                             required
                                                                                             spaces
                                                                                             2.25 per
               Care, training, or treatment is NOT provided on site where other types of     dwelling              1 per 2
               occupancy of a structure where the occupancy exceeds the maximum occupancy    unit (min.  N/A       occupants
               allowed by the base zoning district.                                          1 guest
                                                                                             space).
               Dormitories, Fraternities, Sororities                                         1.5 per     N/A       0.5 per
                                                                                             bedroom               bedroom
                                                                                             2 per                 0.5 per
               Multi-dwelling structures                                                     dwelling    N/A       bedroom
Household                                                                                    unit
Living                                                                                       2 per
               Single family dwelling                                                        dwelling    N/A       N/A
                                                                                             unit
Category       Specific Uses                                                                    Number of Spaces Required
                                                                                           Minimum     Maximum   Bike
Institutional Uses
               Colleges and other institutions of higher learning that offer courses of      Alternative           1 per 5
College        general or specialized study leading to a degree                                                    spaces
               Trade, vocational, or commercial schools                                      Alternative           1 per 10
                                                                                                                   spaces
Community                                                                                   Alternative           1 per 20
Services                                                                                                           spaces
Family Group
Daycare/       Excluding daycare in a residence                                              1 per 500   N/A       N/A
Preschool (1-                                                                                s.f.
8 clients)
Family Group
Daycare/                                                                                    1 per 500   N/A       N/A
Preschool (9-                                                                                s.f.
16 clients)
Commercial                                                                                  1 per 500   N/A       N/A
Daycare                                                                                      s.f.
Hospital                                                                                    1 per two   NA        1 per 20
                                                                                             beds                  spaces
Parks & Open                                                                                Alternative           - -
Areas
                                                                                             1 per 4
Religious                                                                                   persons of  N/A       1 per 30
Institutions                                                                                 max.                  spaces
                                                                                             capacity49
Safety Service                                                                              Alternative           N/A
               Public schools at the elementary, middle, junior high, or high school level   Alternative           1 per 10
Schools        that provide state- mandated basic education                                                        students
               Private schools at the elementary, middle, junior high, or high school level  Alternative           1 per 10
               that provide state- mandated basic education                                                        students
Telecommunicat N/A                                                                           N/A         N/A       N/A
ion Facilities
Utilities,     Excluding park’n’ride facilities50                                        None        None      None
Basic
Utilities,     N/A                                                                           N/A         N/A       N/A
Distribution
Utilities,     None                                                                          N/A         N/A       N/A
Facilities
Office         Activities conducted in an office setting and generally focusing on business, 1 per 300   N/A       1 per 10
               government, professional, medical, or financial services                      s.f.                  spaces
                                                                                             1 per 250
                                                                                             s.f., plus
              Bank, savings and loans, or credit union (0-4 drive up lanes)51               stacking    N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             per                   spaces
                                                                                             Table 10-
                                                                                             38-4
              Clinic, medical, dental, or optical                                           1 per 200   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
              Laboratory, scientific or research                                                       N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                                                   spaces
              Wholesale office                                                              1 per 300   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Bed and breakfast: ten or fewer rooms and meal service limited to guests.     2 plus 1    N/A       N/A
Accommodation  Sleeping accommodations for transient occupancy                               per room
s Lodging, Bed                                                                               1 per guest
and Breakfast  Hotel, Motel                                                                  room, plus  N/A       N/A
                                                                                             associated
                                                                                             uses
Parking,       Facilities providing parking that is not accessory to a specific use; public  N/A         N/A       N/A
Commercial     or private
Parking,       Recreational vehicle and vehicle storage parking                              Alternative N/A       N/A
Commercial     Truck storage, outdoor                                                        Alternative N/A       N/A
(cont.)
               Generally commercial uses that provide recreation or entertainment-oriente d  Alternative N/A       N/A
               activities, primarily takes place outdoors
               Golf Course (not incl. clubhouse)                                             4 per green N/A       N/A
               Parks short term occupancy (less than 30 calendar days)                       2 plus 1    N/A       N/A
Recreation &                                                                                 per RV pad
Entertainment, RV Parks long term occupancy (more than 30 calendar days)                     2 plus 1    N/A       N/A
Outdoor                                                                                      per RV pad
Facility                                                                                     2 plus 1
               Non-vehicle camping (tents) in RV Park                                        per tent    N/A       N/A
                                                                                             pad
                                                                                             2 plus 1
               Tent campground                                                               per tent    N/A       N/A
                                                                                             pad
               Firms involved in the sale, lease or rent of new or used products to the      1 per 250             1 per 10
               general public…they may also provide personal services or entertainment, or s.f.        N/A       spaces
Sales &        provide product repair or services for consumer and business goods
Service        Sales and service, large, footprint greater than 100,000 sq. ft.              1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                            s.f.                  spaces
               Adult oriented business                                                       1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Amusement, commercial indoor                                                  1 per 1,200 N/A       1 per 20
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Animal clinic or pet hospital, no outdoor pens                                1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Animal clinic or pet hospital, with outdoor pens                              1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Antique or collectible shop                                                   1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Art supply store                                                              1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Barber or beauty shop                                                         1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Bakery or confectionery shop, retail sales                                    1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Camera shop                                                                   1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Camping supply store in RV Park                                               1 per 250   N/A       N/A
Sales &                                                                                      s.f.
Service                                                                                      Stacking
(cont.)        Car Wash                                                                      per Table   N/A       N/A
                                                                                             10-38-7
               Clothing                                                                      1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
                                                                                             1 per 50
               Club, private                                                                 s.f. of     N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             usable                spaces
                                                                                             area52
               Convenience Market (no gasoline)                                              1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Dairy products or ice cream                                                   1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Dancehall or nightclub                                                        1 per 100   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Department or discount store                                                  1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Drug store or pharmacy                                                        1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Dry cleaner                                                                   1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Florist shop                                                                  1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Furniture or appliance store                                                  1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
                                                                                             2 per 1,000
                                                                                             s.f. of               1 per 10
               Garden shop, plant sales, nursery                                             storage     N/A       spaces
                                                                                             area plus
                                                                                             office area
               Grocery store                                                                 10 per      N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             1,000 s.f.            spaces
               Handicraft and art object sale                                                1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Hardware store                                                                1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Hobby Shop                                                                    1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
Sales &                                                                                      s.f.                  spaces
Service        Kennel                                                                        1 per 400   N/A       1 per 20
(cont.)                                                                                      s.f.                  spaces
               Laundromat                                                                    1 per 3     N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             machines              spaces
               Copy Center                                                                   1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Locksmith or key shop                                                         1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Maintenance or repair service for buildings                                   Alternative N/A       1 per 20
                                                                                                                   spaces
               Medical appliance fitting or sales                                            1 per 250   N/A       1 per 20
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
                                                                                             1 per 75
               Mortuary                                                                      s.f. of     N/A       1 per 20
                                                                                             slumber               spaces
                                                                                             room
               Music store                                                                   1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Package liquor store                                                          State law preempts local zoning
               Paint sales                                                                   1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Pawn shop                                                                     1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Personal custom services such as milliner, tailor, etc.                       1 per 250   N/A
                                                                                             s.f.
               Pet shop small animals, birds & fish                                          1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Plumbing shop                                                                 1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Provisioning and recreational sporting goods sales                            1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Radio or television transmitting stations, commercial                         Alternative N/A       N/A
               Railroad or bus passenger station                                             Alternative N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                                                   spaces
               Repair of appliances, TV, radios                                              1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
                                                                                             1 per 150             1 per 10
               Restaurant, General                                                           s.f. of     N/A       spaces
                                                                                             dining area
Sales &                                                                                      1 per 75
Service                                                                                      s.f. of
(cont.)                                                                                      customer
                                                                                             service and
                                                                                             dining area
                                                                                             or 1 per
               Restaurant, Fast-Food                                                         150 s.f.,   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             whichever             spaces
                                                                                             is greater,
                                                                                             plus
                                                                                             stacking
                                                                                             per
                                                                                             Table 10-
                                                                                             38-7
               Shoe, boot, or other leather goods sale and repair                            1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Storage warehouse                                                             1 per 2,500 N/A
                                                                                             s.f.
               Studio, health, exercise, massage, reducing or similar service                1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Studio, photographer, artist, music, dance, and drama                         1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Tavern                                                                        1 per 250   N/A       1 per 10
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Tennis or swim club, private Indoor                                           1 per 300   N/A       N/A
                                                                                             s.f.
Sales &        Trailer and mobile home sales                                                 Alternative N/A       N/A
Service        Vehicle parts sales, new or reconditioned, indoor                             1 per 1,000 N/A       N/A
(cont.)                                                                                      s.f.
               Vehicle parts sales, used or reconditioned, outdoor                           1 per 3,000 N/A       N/A
                                                                                             s.f.
               Vehicle and Equipment sales                                                   Sum of      N/A       N/A
                                                                                             components
               Welding or machine shop                                                                   N/A       N/A
               Uses providing storage areas for individual or business uses                  1 per 250   N/A       N/A
                                                                                             s.f.
                                                                                             1 per 6
Self-Service                                                                                 units or 1
Storage        Commercial storage unit                                                       per 12      N/A       N/A
                                                                                             units with
                                                                                             20' wide
                                                                                             aisle
Storage,                                                                                    Alternative N/A       N/A
Outdoor
Vehicle Repair                                                                              5 per       N/A       N/A
                                                                                             service bay
Vehicle        Services to motor vehicles where the driver or passengers generally wait in   6 per       N/A       N/A
Service        the car or nearby while the service is performed                              service bay
                                                                                             1 per
                                                                                             employee
                                                                                             (based on
                                                                                             maximum
                                                                                             number of
                                                                                             employees
               Gasoline service stations                                                     working at  N/A       5 per
                                                                                             peak hours)           station
Vehicle                                                                                      plus 1.5
Service                                                                                      per service
(cont.)                                                                                      station
                                                                                             bay, plus
                                                                                             any retail
                                                                                             component
               Gasoline, petroleum products storage (home heating exempt) (See Uniform Fire  Alternative N/A       N/A
               Code Section 7902)
               Electric fueling facilities for vehicles (no petroleum) in conjunction with a Alternative N/A       N/A
               primary use
               Truck Stop                                                                    Alternative N/A       N/A
Industrial Uses
               Firms engaged in the repair or servicing of business or consumer machinery,   Sum of      N/A       1 per 20
               equipment, products or by-products                                            components            spaces
               Industrial machinery storage, sales, repair                                   1 per 2,500 N/A       1 per 40
Industrial                                                                                   s.f.                  spaces
Services       Contractor supply store                                                       1 per 500   N/A       1 per 40
                                                                                             s.f.                  spaces
               Contractor supply store with outdoor storage                                  Sum of      N/A       1 per 40
                                                                                             components            spaces
Manufacturing, Firms involved in the manufacturing, processing, fabrication, packaging, or   Sum of                1 per 40
Assembly or    assembly of goods                                                             components  N/A       spaces
Production
Manufacturing,
Assembly or    Light manufacturing processes which do not emit detectable dust, odor, fumes, Sum of      N/A       1 per 10
Production     or gas beyond the boundary of the property of noises above the ambient level  components            spaces
(cont.)
               Firms involved in the storage, or movement of goods for themselves of other   Sum of      N/A       N/A
               firms                                                                         components
               Contractors storage yard of heavy equipment                                   None        N/A       N/A
Warehouse and                                                                                1 per 1,000
Freight        Lumberyard                                                                    s.f. plus   N/A       N/A
Movement                                                                                     retail
                                                                                             sales area
               Storage of sand, gravel, earth or stone                                       2 per every N/A       N/A
                                                                                             3 employees
               Uses that receive solid or liquid wastes from others for disposal on the site
               or for transfer to another location, uses that collect sanitary wastes, or    Alternative N/A       N/A
               uses that manufacture or produce goods or energy from the composting of
Waste-Related  organic material
Use            Enclosed Wrecking or Salvage Facilities                                       1 per 500   N/A       N/A
                                                                                             s.f.
               Open Wrecking or Salvage Facilities                                           1 per 2,500 N/A       N/A
                                                                                             s.f.
Wholesale      Firms involved in the sale, lease, or rent of products primarily intended for Alternative N/A       1 per 10
Sales          industrial, institutional, or commercial businesses                                                 spaces
Other Uses
Agriculture    Activities that primarily involve raising, producing or keeping crops or      None        N/A       N/A
               animals
Aviation,      Facilities for the landing and takeoff of flying equipment, arrival and
Surface        departure of vehicles, including loading and unloading areas for passengers,  Alternative N/A       N/A
Passenger      cargo, or freight
Terminals
Detention      Facilities for the judicially required detention or incarceration of people   Alternative N/A       N/A
Facilities
Home                                                                                                     As
Occupations                                                                                 None        specified N/A
                                                                                                         in permit
Mining         Mining or extraction of mineral or aggregate resources from the ground for    Alternative N/A       N/A
               off-site use
Telecommunicat                                                                               1 per 300
ions           Offices and studios                                                           s.f.        N/A       N/A
Facilities
                                                                                             1 space or
Transmission                                                                                as          N/A       N/A
facilities                                                                                   specified
                                                                                             in permit
Rail Lines and
Utility                                                                                     Alternative N/A       N/A
Corridors
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-38-5: ALTERNATIVE PARKING PLAN:
An Alternative Parking Plan is a proposal to meet vehicle parking needs by
means other than providing parking spaces on-site in accordance with the ratios
established in this chapter. Proponents who wish to provide a greater amount
(up to a maximum of one hundred and twenty five percent (125%) of the required
parking stalls), or a reduced amount (to a minimum of seventy five percent
(75%) of the required parking stalls) of off-street parking spaces than
required shall secure approval of an Alternative Parking Plan, in accordance
with the standards of this section.
   A.   Procedures:
      1.   Plan Contents. Alternative Parking Plans shall be submitted in a
form established by the Planning Commission. At a minimum, such plans shall
detail the type of alternative proposed and the rationale for such a proposal.
Plans shall be prepared by a professional appropriately licensed by the State
of Utah.
      2.   Review and Approval:
         a.   Small Facilities: The Planning Commission is authorized to review
and act on Alternative Parking Plans if the plan proposes a reduction or
decrease of ten percent (10%) or fewer off-street parking spaces.
         b.   Large Facilities: Alternative Parking Plans that propose a
reduction or increase of six (6) or more off-street parking spaces from the
required amount require review and action by the decision-maker.
      3.   A parking study shall include estimates of parking demand based on
recommendations of the Institute of Traffic Engineers (ITE) Parking Generation
Manual, or other acceptable estimates as approved by the Department of Public
Works, and should include other reliable data collected from uses or
combinations of uses that are the same as or comparable with the proposed use.
Comparability wilt be determined by density, scale, bulk, area, type of
activity, location, or parameters of the use that may be estimated to parking
requirements.
      4.   The study shall document the source of data used, and methods used
to develop the recommendations. After reviewing the parking study, the Planning
Commission and City Engineer shall establish a minimum off-street parking
standard for the proposed use.
      5.   Recordation of Approved Plans: A copy of an approved Alternative
Parking Plan shall be submitted to the County Recorder's office for
recordation. An Alternative Parking Plan may be amended by following the same
procedure required for the original approval.
      6.   Appeals of the administrative decision may be made to the Board of
Adjustment in accordance with the procedures of
Chapter 10-57.
   B.   Transportation Management Program: The Planning Commission may
authorize an alternative to the number of required off-street parking spaces
for developments or uses that institute and commit to maintaining a
Transportation Management Program, in accordance with the standards of this
section.
      1.   Required Study: The applicant shall submit a study that clearly
indicates the types of transportation management activities and measures
proposed.
      2.   Posting and Distribution of Information: The distribution and
posting of information from transit agencies and other sources of alternative
transportation shall be a minimum requirement of this subsection.
      3.   Transportation Management Activities: There is no limitation on the
types of transportation management activities for which reductions may be
granted from otherwise required off-street parking ratios. The following
measures will serve as a guide to eligible transportation management
activities:
         a.   Transportation Coordinator: The appointment of a Transportation
Coordinator with responsibility for disseminating information on ride-sharing
and other transportation options may be cause for a reduction in otherwise
applicable off-street parking requirements. In addition to acting as liaisons,
Transportation Coordinators shall be available to attend meetings and training
sessions with the City or transit providers.
         b.   Off-Peak Work Hours: Employers that institute off-peak work
schedules, allowing employees to arrive at times other than the peak commute
periods as defined by the City Engineer, may be eligible for a reduction in
otherwise applicable off-street parking requirements.
         c.   Preferential Parking: The provision of specially marked spaces
for each registered car pool and van pool may be cause for a reduction in
otherwise applicable off-street parking requirements.
         d.   Financial Incentives: The provision of cash or in-kind financial
incentives for employees commuting by car pool, van pool and alternative
transit may be cause for a reduction in otherwise applicable parking
requirements.
   C.   Off-Site Parking: Required parking may be located off-site, if approved
as a part of an Alternative Parking Plan and in compliance with all of the
following standards:
      1.   Ineligible Activities: Off-site parking may not be used to satisfy
the off-street parking standards for residential uses (except for guest
parking), restaurants, convenience stores or other convenience-oriented uses.
Required parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities may not be
located off-site.
      2.   Location: Off-site parking may be located within a six hundred
(600)-foot radius from the use served. Off-site parking spaces may not be
separated from the use served by a street right-of-way with a width of more
than one hundred twenty feet (120'), unless a grade-separated pedestrian
walkway or other traffic control or safety device is provided.
   D.   Agreement For Off-Site Parking: Off-site parking requires a written
agreement that shall run with the land and which shall be recorded. A signed,
notarized copy of the agreement between the owners of record shall be submitted
to the Planning Commission for review and approval. Recordation of the
agreement shall take place prior to the issuance of a building permit for any
use to be served by the off-site parking area. An off-site parking agreement
may be revoked only if required off-street parking spaces are provided in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Shared Parking: Developments or uses with different operating hours or
peak business periods may share off-street parking spaces if approved as part
of an Alternative Parking Plan and if the shared parking complies with all of
the following standards.
      1.   Location: Shared parking spaces shall be located within a 600-foot
radius of all uses served.
      2.   Shared Parking Study: A parking study prepared by a professional
appropriately licensed by the State of Utah shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission that clearly demonstrates the feasibility of shared parking. At a
minimum, the study shall address the size and type of the proposed development,
the composition of tenants, the anticipated rate of parking turnover and the
anticipated peak parking and traffic loads for all uses that will be sharing
off-street parking spaces.
      3.   Agreement for Shared Parking: A shared parking agreement shall be
enforced through written agreement among all owners of record. A signed,
notarized copy of the agreement between the owners of record shall be submitted
to the Planning Commission for approval prior to recordation. Recordation of
the agreement shall take place prior to the issuance of a building permit for
any use to be served by the off-site parking area. A shared parking agreement
may be revoked only if required off-street parking spaces can be otherwise
provided, in conformance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
10-38-6: FINDINGS:
The decision-making body may approve or conditionally approve as part of a
design review permit parking in excess of the maximum allowable stalls per this
Section upon substantiating all of the following findings:
   A.   Demand for excess parking is ongoing and not based on a peak day,
holiday or seasonal event.
   B.   Unique parking needs do not allow necessary parking to be reasonably
provided based on the requirements of this Section.
   C.   A Performance Landscape Plan has been submitted which demonstrates that
the site can accommodate additional landscaping to compensate for and mitigate
the impact from additional stalls. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-38-7: VEHICLE STACKING CAPACITY IN DRIVE-THROUGH LANES:
   A.   Based on specific site requirements and business operations, the
following table shall be used as a guide for the recommended stacking capacity:
   Table 10-38-7: Minimum Stacking Lanes, Number of Vehicles
Activity Type Minimum Stack Measured From
Activity Type                Minimum Stack Measured From
Bank teller lane             3 per lane    Teller or Window
Automated teller machine     3 per machine Teller
Restaurant drive-through     8             Order Box54
Car wash stall, automatic    6             Entrance
Car wash stall, self-service 1             Entrance
Other                        Determined by City Engineer based on Traffic Study
Convenience store drive-thru Prohibited
Gasoline pump island         30 feet from each end of pump island
 
   B.   Standards for Design and Layout apply to all drive-through facilities.
Required stacking spaces are subject to the following design and layout
standards:
      1.   Stacking space shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') by sixteen feet
(16') in size.
      2.   Stacking spaces shall not impede on- or off-site traffic movements
or movements into or out of off-street parking spaces.
      3.   Stacking spaces shall be separated from other internal driveways
with raised medians, as deemed necessary by the City Engineer for traffic
movement and safety. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-38-8: RESIDENTIAL PARKING:
   A.   Onsite: Except as specifically stated in this chapter, required off-
street parking spaces shall be located on the same lot as the primary use.
   B.   Residential Zoning Districts:
      1.   Parking shall not be located within the front setbacks.
      2.   For attached dwelling units, parking {'{'}not located within an
attached garage) shall be separated from the dwellings by a landscape area. No
parking shall be located between the street and the structure.
      3.   If there are no conforming locations on a lot for parking in
residential districts, a parking pad may be situated in the side setback,
provided that it is no closer than two (2) feet to the adjoining property line.
No carport, canopy, or cover shall be permitted (see additional requirements
Section
10-44-7J).
   C.   No Heavy Vehicle Storage in Residential Districts: The parking or
storage of any commercial truck or truck trailer is prohibited in Residential
Districts except when located outside of front yards, setbacks and public
rights-of way, or located within a residential garage. This prohibition does
not apply to vehicles making deliveries or pick-ups.
   D.   Parking of Recreational Vehicles: No recreational vehicle shall be
parked within the public right-of-way, or if there is an adjoining driveway, no
recreational vehicle shall be parked in a sight distance triangle of fifteen
(15) feet from the front property line.
   E.   Outside storage or parking of more than two (2) unregistered vehicles
or trailers is prohibited in all residential zoning districts.
Figure 10-38-8D: Recreation Vehicle Sight Distance Triangle Established
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2692.png]
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-38-9: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PARKING:
   A.   Onsite Parking Required: A commercial and industrial development shall
be required to provide adequate parking onsite except as noted:
      1.   Within the Town Center district in Downtown Wellsville where there
is no physical location for onsite parking, businesses may provide parking at
offsite locations in conformance with this chapter, or businesses may
contribute a proportional share of the cost of developing offsite parking, if
approved.
      2.   Businesses in any zone may contract or lease offsite parking or
obtain parking easements at locations conforming to the requirements of this
chapter.
      3.   If a right-of-way parking permit has been obtained in conformance
with the Wellsville City Code, the parking identified in the permit shall count
or be part of the parking requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Location of Parking:
      1.   On-site parking must be located in the side or rear yard areas.
      2.   Legally existing non-conforming parking lots must meet current
landscaping standards upon a change of use or significant change or alteration.
See Sections
10-39-2 through
10-39-4.
Figure 10-38-9: Parking Lot Specifications and Dimensions
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2694.png]
   C.   Driveway Widths: Maximum driveway width in commercial and industrial
zones shall be fifty-two feet (52').
   D.   Parking Lot Design: Parking lots and parking spaces shall be designed
and maintained in conformance with the standards shown in Figure 10-38-9. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-38-10: BICYCLE PARKING:
All new development or change of use shall install parking for bicycles as
required in
Table 10-38-4 of the Code. Required bicycle parking areas are subject to the
following design and layout standards:
   A.   Bicycle parking shall be provided with racks that allow the frame and
one wheel to be locked to the rack with a high security, U-shaped lock.
   B.   Racks shall be clearly visible and accessible, but should not interfere
with pedestrian traffic or other site furnishings.
   C.   Parking areas shall be well-lit for theft protection, personal security
and accident prevention. Exterior lighting shall meet the standards in Section
10-36-10 of the Land Use Regulations.
   D.   Location of bicycle parking shall be separated from vehicle parking and
roads with space and physical barriers in order to prevent potential damage to
parked bikes and/or vehicles. Bicycle parking shall not be located on sidewalks
or in areas that obstruct pedestrian traffic flow.
   E.   Use existing overhangs or covered areas to provide weather protection
for parking areas.
   F.   Bicycle parking spaces shall be calculated based on their
manufacturer's recommended use of the product. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-38-11: PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
Off-street parking for persons with disabilities shall be provided in
accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and the Uniform
Federal Accessibility Standards. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-38-12: USE OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACES:
   A.   Use Of Parking Areas: Required off-street parking areas shall be used
solely for the parking of licensed, motor vehicles in operating condition.
Required spaces may not be used for the storage of vehicles, boats, motor
homes, campers, mobile homes, or building materials.
   B.   Use Of Parking Areas For Temporary Events And Sales:
      1.   A portion of a parking lot that allows at least seventy-five percent
(75%) of the remaining legal parking spaces to be used for parking in
conformance with the standards of this chapter may be set aside for purposes of
a temporary event, such as a "tent sale," "sidewalk/parking lot sate," or other
permitted activity. These events may not exceed seven consecutive days in
length while not occurring more than once each calendar quarter, or may not
exceed two consecutive days while not occurring more than three times each
calendar quarter,
      2.   The property owner and operator of the licensed business at the
location are jointly responsible for ensuring that events blocking parking lots
do not result in unsafe traffic or circulation conditions and ensures that
there is adequate fire and emergency vehicle access. The Police Chief, Fire
Chief or their designee may order the event cancelled and removed without
hearing or notice if found that the arrangement of the temporary event or sale
interferes with safe flow of traffic or emergency vehicle access to a site.
      3.   The property owner, business licensed at the site, and entity
responsible for the event are jointly responsible for ensuring there is
adequate parking at the event site. The use of public right-of-way for event
parking is prohibited. Parking arrangements may be made for use of adjoining or
nearby parking areas within a six hundred foot (600') radius, but a copy of the
agreements shall be in writing and filed with the Planning Commission at least
two (2) working days prior to the event.
   C.   Long-Term Vendors Located In Parking Lots:
      1.   A business license for the temporary long-term use of a parking lot
for a vendor (example and not limited to: Christmas trees, fireworks, snow cone
sales, ice cream sales, seasonal food sales) that will be located in the
parking lot for more than seven consecutive days may be permitted by the
Planning Commission provided that a copy of a written agreement for use of the
parking area is submitted to the Planning Commission prior to the establishment
of the use.
      2.   A site plan showing the location of the facility and an indication
of the total number of existing spaces in the parking lot and parking to be
removed by the vendor shall be submitted to the Director.
      3.   Depending on the design of the parking area and location of the
long-term vendor, the Planning Commission may require parking spaces in the
area of the vendor to be re-striped for purposes of providing parking or
accommodating safe traffic flows.
      4.   A portion of a parking lot that allows at least ninety-five percent
(95%) of the required parking spaces, for general usage, in conformance with
current zoning standards may be used by long-term vendors.
   D.   Temporary Vendors on Undeveloped Sites: The use of undeveloped sites
for parking or sales by temporary vendors shall be prohibited. Temporary
vendors may utilize undeveloped portions of appropriately zoned properties
provided that the property owner creates an approved right-of-way access, a
paved surface for the area as approved by the Planning Commission and the City
Engineer, parking needed by the vendor, and landscaping. The Planning
Commission may approve the design and landscaping for temporary vending.
   E.   Shopping Cart Corrals: Cart corrals or similar facilities shall not be
permitted to replace required parking. New development shall identify cart
corral or collection areas on the site plan. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-38-13: ACCESS AND DRIVEWAYS:
Access and driveways shall conform to the standards as outlined in
Chapter 10-37 of the Land Use Regulations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-38-14: LANDSCAPING:
Landscaping for parking lots shall conform to the standards as outlined in
Chapter 10-39 of the Land Use Regulations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-38-15: SETBACKS FOR PARKING:
Setbacks for parking shall conform to the standards as outlined in
Chapter 10-39,
Table 10-15-1,
Table 10-18-1 or Table 10-21-1 of the Land Use Regulations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019)
CHAPTER 39
LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-39-1: Purpose And Intent
10-39-2: Applicability
10-39-3: Exemption
10-39-4: Landscaping
10-39-5: Landscaping Performance (Minimum Requirements)
10-39-6: Landscaping In Public Rights-Of-Way
10-39-7: Parking Lot Landscaping
10-39-8: Installation, Replacement, Occupancy
10-39-9: Xeriscaping
10-39-10: Irrigation
10-39-11: Maintenance And Upkeep Of Landscaping
10-39-12: Landscaping Features Are A Part Of The Overall Approval
10-39-13: Compliance
10-39-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This chapter provides standards for landscaping of all new or redeveloped
projects within the City. These standards do not apply to single family
detached homes, except where new residential development abuts U.S Highway 89/
91 or as may be otherwise required in Title 10 or Title 11. It is intended to
ensure that the policies of the General Plan related to increasing the
attractiveness of the City and enhancing neighborhood character includes
appropriate landscaping.
The General Plan sets forth general requirements for the maintenance of
community character and further establishes general requirements for growth and
development that is consistent with the character of the City. The Land Use
Regulations, of which this chapter is apart, establishes specific and detailed
regulations that implement the purposes of the General Plan. Specifically, the
General Plan states the following which guide the detailed regulations of this
Chapter 10-39 Landscaping:
"Measures should be taken to preserve the open space that exists along the
highway and in no case should commercial growth be allowed to continuously line
the roadside... The land adjacent to entrance roadways to the city and Highway
89/91 should remain as scenic approaches... The views and vistas of Wellsville
are critical to the quality image of the City... The gateways to Wellsviile are
vital to the quality of the City. Efforts must continue to place priorities on
city entrances that invite and that maintain rural qualities of the community.
Large setbacks should be required along these roadways. The Planning Commission
should require additional landscaping and other visual controls to ensure
quality entrances to the City of Wellsville.”
The City recognizes the aesthetic, ecological, and economic value of
landscaping and requires its use to:
   A.   Improve landscaping for the visual quality of the City.
   B.   Reduce the rate and volume of storm water runoff.
   C.   Promote compatibility between land uses and create buffer areas by
reducing the visual, noise, and lighting impacts from adjoining properties.
   D.   Unify development within the Zoning Districts throughout the City.
   E.   Promote the retention of existing vegetation and restore natural
communities through re-establishment of native plants.
   F.   Reduce the visual and audio impacts of automobile related
infrastructure (parking lots, driveways and roads).
   G.   Promote healthy outdoor recreational activities.
   H.   Reduce greenhouse gases and the negative environmental impacts created
from automobiles and development.
   I.   Use the landscape to compliment the built environment and achieve the
principals and goals set forth in the General Plan and Land Use Regulations.
   J.   Promote water efficient landscaping that reduces the demand on City's
water resources.
   K.   Reduces heat island effect.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2696.png]
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-39-2: APPLICABILITY:
The standards of this chapter apply to all public and private development, new
construction, exterior remodeling, enlargement or change of use, unless
otherwise specifically stated in this chapter. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-39-3: EXEMPTION:
The following are exempt from the standards of this chapter:
   A.   Agriculture structures and agricultural uses;
   B.   Minor improvements or repairs to existing development that do not
result in an increase in floor area.
   C.   Detached single family dwellings on individual lots for a period of one
(1) year for the front yard area and a period of two (2) years for the rear
yard area beginning at the time the final certificate of occupancy is issued.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-39-4: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Required Landscaping:
      1.   Required landscaping shall be installed in all yard areas, along the
perimeter of the lot, around buildings, and all other portions of the property
not specifically utilized for walkways, driveways, parking, loading, or other
functions for which landscaping may not be practical as determined by the
decision-makers.
      2.   Lawn areas in new commercial, industrial, institutional, and multi-
family development common area landscapes shall not exceed twenty percent (20%)
of the total landscaped area, except for lawn areas required for active
recreation.
   B.   Use Of Sterilants, Weed Killers, Or Herbicides: The use of these
products shall not be used as a permanent landscape solution. No sterilants,
weed killers, or herbicides that result in soil conditions that preclude plant
material to grow shall be permitted without the prior written approval of the
Planning Commission. Such products shall be applied in conformance with Federal
and State regulations.
   C.   Landscaping For Lots Which Are Partially Developed: At the discretion
of the decision-makers, projects with substantial portions of the parcel area
left for future development may be exempt from landscaping the undeveloped
portion of the property. If any portion of the undeveloped area of the lot
fronts a public right-of-way, standard improvements such as curb, gutter,
sidewalk and installation of street trees and other appropriate landscaping
shall be required at the time of the development.
   D.   Landscaping When Expansion Or Additional Development Occurs: If a
parcel with existing development is proposed for additional development, and
the expansion results in more than a ten percent (10%) increase in gross square
footage the decision-makers have the discretion to review the landscaping
installed on the entire property and may require conformance to the
requirements of Section
10-39-5 . If the expansion or redevelopment results in less than a ten percent
(10%) gross increase in square footage the Planning Commission shall require
conformance with the landscape requirements of Section
10-39-5  for the new portion of the project only.
   E.   Landscaping Required For Interior Remodeling That Results in a change
of use, where practicable, full compliance with this chapter shall be required
when a change of use occurs that results in any modifications to the site and
exterior of the structures. The Planning Commission, upon review of existing
landscaping, may require partial compliance. Compliance is not required when a
structure is changed in use and there is no change in exterior appearance and
there are no Planning Commission or Design Review approvals required.
   F.   Landscaping and setback requirements for all new development, other
than residential development, abutting U.S. Highway 89/91. The requirements set
forth in the General Plan (see Standards for Development Projects) pertaining
to highways require large setbacks from the highway and landscaping to maintain
rural character and a quality image of the City. Landscaped setbacks from the
highway right-of-way shall be a minimum of one hundred fifty feet (150').
Setbacks may vary, but the average along the entire highway must be a minimum
of the required one hundred fifty feet (150'). When average setback is used,
the setback shall not be less than sixty feet (60') at any location. Berming is
not required, but is allowed, where buildings abut the front yard setback.
Berming shall be required where parking lots, interior roads, drives,
utilities, and/or service areas are adjacent to the setback (see Section
10-39-7  B Type "E" Separation). Earthen berming is required to be at least six
feet (6') high with a base of at least forty feet (40'). Berms shall be
continuous along the frontage except where driveway approaches access the main
highway or in those areas of the setback where buildings are located. The
highway setback may be used to meet stormwater storage requirements, but all
berming and screening requirements shall be fulfilled. Stormwater detention and
retention basins shall be landscaped as required for all other landscaped areas
and shall conform to the Stormwater Code in Titles 8 Chapters 4 and 5.
Certain incentives for development are provided to allow the Planning
Commission to modify the setback requirements. These incentives intend to
encourage Highway development that is compatible with the goals of the city.
   1.   Landscaping setbacks may be reduced to seventy five feet (75') if
determined by the Planning Commission that increased berming, screening, and
landscaping ensures the purposes set forth in this Chapter. Specially, the
height of berming, and the plant materials shall be increased sufficiently to
compensate for the reduction in setback.
   2.   Landscaping setbacks may be reduced further by the voluntary
development of a public trail running parallel to and within the front setback.
The setback may be reduced equal to the width of the trail and is subject to
the Planning Commission finding that the purposes of this Chapter shall
prevail.
   3.   In order to encourage development at major lighted intersection,
setbacks may be reduced to forty feet (40') adjacent to U.S. Highway 89/91 on
land parcels which are located at future intersections where traffic lights
will be allowed by agreement with the City of Wellsville and the Utah
Department of Transportation. Specific parcels where reduced setbacks are
allowed are as follows and as included in the CGC zoning district:
      11-090-0007
      11-089-0007
      11-087-0008
      11-087-0007
      11-088-0022
      11-091-0012
      11-091-0011
      11-091-00
   G.   Landscaping and setback requirements for new residential development
abutting U.S Highway 89/91. The requirements set forth in the General Plan (see
Standards for Development Projects) pertaining to highways require large
setbacks and landscaping to maintain a quality image of the City. The
landscaped highway setback shall be a minimum of one hundred fifty feet (150').
If the front of the home is facing the Highway no earthen berming is required,
but setback area shall be fully landscaped. Where the side or the rear of homes
face the highway, a two hundred foot (200') highway setback is required with
berming (see Section
10-39-7  B Type "F" Separation) Berms shall be at least six feet (6') high with
a base of at least forty feet (40'). Berms shall be continuous along the
frontage. The highway setback may be used to meet stormwater storage
requirements, but all berming and screening requirements shall be fulfilled.
Stormwater detention and retention basins shall be landscaped as required for
all other landscaped areas and shall conform to the Stormwater Code in Titles 8
Chapters 4 and 5.
Figure 10-39-5A: All new Development, except when abutting Highway 89/91, to be
landscaped with buildings placed to screen parking and fronting on the primary
street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2677.png]
 
Figure 10-39-5B: All new development along Highway 89/91 required to provide a
berm with a landscaped setback for parking, drives, and service areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2679.png]
 
Figure 10-39-5C: All new commercial/industrial development along Highway 89/91
where access is allowed is required to provide a berm with a 150' landscaped
setback for parking, drives, and services areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2681.png]
 
Figure 10-39-5D: Residential Development along Highway 89/91 required to
provide a berm with a landscaped setback. Residential dwellings are required to
front on a single loaded roadway. The rear year of dwellings shall not be
adjacent to the highway right-of-way. (see
10-39-4 G)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2683.png]
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-04, 4-19-2023)
10-39-5: LANDSCAPING PERFORMANCE (MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS):
Landscaping requirements are intended to establish a minimum standard by which
a property owner may use to design a set of landscape drawings that can be
approved and constructed through the City’s development process.
   A.   For commercial, industrial, mixed-use, and multi-family projects
located within the any zone.
      1.   At least fifty percent (50%) of the required landscape area of the
project shall be living, planted landscape.
      2.   Twenty (20) trees shall be required for every acre of land. For
parcels of land where fractions of acres occur, the requirement for trees shall
be proportionate to the fractional acreage.
      3.   Fifty (50) shrubs shall be required per one (1) acre of gross land.
      4.   Plant material shall be placed around the perimeter of the building
footprint in a three foot (3') minimum planting strip with the exception of
entrances, utilities and where setbacks are less than three feet (3').
      5.   When abutting Highway 89/91 the required setback area shall be fully
landscaped with at least one (1) tree for every twenty feet (20') of frontage,
planted in a naturalistic pattern.
      6.   Street trees required
10-39-6 A. and F.
   B.   For multi-family, mixed use, and projects located within a future Mixed
Residential zone excluding single family homes.
      1.   At least seventy-five percent (75%) of the required useable open
space of the project shall be planted landscape area.
      2.   Twenty-four (24) trees shall be required per one (1) acre of gross
land.
      3.   Fifty (50) shrubs shall be required per one (1) acre of gross land.
      4.   Plant material shall be placed around the perimeter of the building
footprint in a three (3) foot minimum planting strip with the exception of
entrances, utilities and where setbacks are less than three feet.
      5.   When abutting Highway 89/91 the required setback area shall be fully
landscaped with at least one (1) tree for every twenty (20) feet of frontage,
planted in a naturalistic pattern.
   C.   Plant Selection: Plants selected for landscape areas shall be well
suited for Wellsville's climate and soil conditions at the project site. Plants
with similar water needs shall be grouped together as much as possible. On
slopes greater than thirty percent (30%), plant material shall be selected to
reduce the risk of soil erosion. Native and drought tolerant plant material are
encouraged and should be used whenever possible. Projects should have a diverse
mix of plant species for disease resistance and visual interest.
   D.   Mulch: Mulch is encouraged in non-turf areas to retain water,
discourage weed growth and moderate soil temperatures. Weed barrier fabrics
shall be a porous material to allow water and air to infiltrate the soils
below.
   E.   Use of Evergreen Trees and Shrubs: A minimum of twenty-five (25%)
percent of the plant material used for the project shall be evergreen trees and
shrubs to provide visual interest year-round and for dense landscape screening.
   Table 10-39-5E.: Species Diversity Requirements
 
Required Number of Trees Minimum Number of Species
11-20                    2
21-30                    3
31-40                    4
41+                      5
 
   F.   Screening Of Service Areas: Landscape shall be used to provide visual
and audio buffers between pedestrian and service areas. Use multiple planting
layers and stager plants to provide screening from various viewpoints. Loading
docks, storage of material or vehicles, and other service areas shall be
screened from public view as specified in the design review process. Acceptable
screening may include plant material, fencing, walls, earth berm or a
combination as approved by the decision-makers.
      1.   Solid waste receptacles, recycling bins, refuse storage shall be
screened from view on three (3) sides by a fence or wall with a minimum height
of six feet (6') or one foot (1') taller than the receptacle, whichever is
greater. Waste disposal receptacles shall be located out of the public view
insofar as is practical. See Section
10-11-16 .
      2.   The enclosure shall be compatible in material and color with the
primary structure on the lot if located within twenty feet (20') of the
building, if located beyond twenty feet (20') from the structure the enclosure
should be designed to minimize the visual impact and blend in with surrounding
landscaping.
      3.   Waste disposal and recycling receptacles shall be consolidated to
reasonably minimize the number of collection sites and to equalize the distance
from the buildings they serve.
   G.   Enhance Or Develop Pedestrian-Oriented Spaces Within A Project: Such as
Walkway Landscaping and Creation of Usable Outdoor Spaces.
      1.   Use vertical landscaping to break up long stretches of linear wall
planes and to soften the hard edges of the built environment.
      2.   Provide a balance between the overall appearance of the landscaping
as a part of a planned site and the buildings on the site. The City's objective
is to ensure that the site has dense landscaping in terms of the land area
dedicated to landscaping and in vertical elevation of landscaping.
      3.   Any flexibility to be applied by the decision-makers shall be based
on achieving an attractive site with installations of landscaping that are
designed to complement and enhance the site development.
      4.   A variety of tree species shall be provided in conformance with
Table 10-39-5E.
   H.   Submission Of Landscape Plans:
      1.   All commercial, industrial, mixed-use and multi-family landscape
plans shall be prepared and stamped by a Licensed Landscape Architect
registered with the State of Utah.
      2.   Landscape plans shall be submitted prior to or included with
submittal for Building Permit.
      3.   Landscape plans shall be of adequate size and detail so the
decisionmakers can see the land area to be planted and the appearance of
plantings at seventy-five percent (75%) of mature growth.
      4.   Landscape plans and details shall be drawn in a professional manner
with credible representations of plant sizes and site features. The Planning
Commission or staff may reject plans which do not accurately depict the site
landscaping.
      5.   Landscape plans shall be accompanied by a planting schedule that
identifies both the common and scientific name of each species. The schedule
shall include the size and type of plant material to be installed.
      6.   Landscape plans shall be drawn to scale and have a north arrow. Site
features including buildings, parking lots, streets, existing vegetation,
utilities should be shown for reference and orientation. Planting details and
Irrigation specifications will generally not be including with the submitted
Performance Landscape plan unless unique situations are associated with the
project requiring further detail.
      7.   Show on the landscape plans the location and connection type of
backflow prevention.
   I.   Review Of Landscape Plans: Landscape plans may be approved upon a
finding that the plan meets or exceeds the purposes and objectives of this
chapter through either:
      1.   Natural land characteristics or existing vegetation on the proposed
development site; or
      2.   Innovative landscaping or architectural design.
   Figure 10-39-5: Example of a Landscape Plan
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2685.png]
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-39-6: LANDSCAPING IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
   Landscaping in public rights-of-way should be designed to conserve water,
use drip irrigation systems and use plants that conserve water._ All streets,
either public or private, shall provide a planted landscaped park strip to City
specifications, and be perpetually maintained by the adjacent property owner.
Plantings within the right-of-way or park strip will not count towards meeting
the performance landscape requirements of Section
10-39-5 .
   A.   Street trees shall be planted within the entire parkstrip adjacent or
abutting the development frontage at a uniform spacing of thirty feet (30') on
center. If no parkstrip exists, trees shall be planted adjacent to the roadway
edge located as required in Standards and Specifications of the City of
Wellsville. Tree size, species, and locations shall be approved by the Planning
Commission and shall be included in the Landscape Plan (Section
10-39-5).
   B.   Landscaping in park strips shall be installed and maintained as
follows:
      1.   In all park strips, street trees are required as 10-39-6-A.
      2.   Plants, including trees, shall be irrigated with water conserving
irrigation systems.
      3.   Parks strips shall be planted with live plantings of shrubs and
ground cover which will grow to cover at least fifty (50) percent of the total
area of the park strip when the plants mature. Shrubs and other plant material
located within all park strips shall not exceed three feet (31) in height at
maturity. Potential hazardous plant material containing thorns or spikes shall
be prohibited in the park strip. When calculating park strip coverage
percentage areas, plants may be measured at mature spread excluding street
trees.
      4.   In new residential development the follow is required:
         a.   No lawn shall be planted in park strips less than eight (8) feet
in width.
         b.   No more than fifty (50) percent of the front and side yard
landscaping may be lawn. Lawn limitations do not apply to small residential
lots with less than two hundred-fifty (250) square feet of landscaped area in
the front yard.
   C.   Stone, gravel, mulch, or other decorative hardscape materials shall not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the park strip area ground cover. Decorative
boulders and similar features shall be less than eighteen inches (18") in
height. Poured concrete, asphalt or other similar solid surface paving is
prohibited within the park strip, except for driveway approaches and adjacent
commercial uses.
   D.   Landscaping and any other surface material located within the right-of-
way between the edge of traveled way and the property shall not be used for the
storage, sale, and/or display of merchandise.
   E.   Where Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) rights-of-way are
involved in the development of landscaping, state permits shall be obtained and
landscaping with UDOT rights-of-way shall conform to state standards.
   F.   Anyone installing materials for paving, landscaping or storing within
the public right-of-way shall be responsible to pay for removal or restoration
of such materials in the event that the Public Works Department is required, by
its duty of maintenance and use of streets, culverts, drains, ditches,
waterways, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street trees, public utilities and any
other service provided by the city or utility providers located within the
right-of-way.(Title 7.1.1 A-C). The cost of removal and/or restoration
necessary for the Public Works Department to do its duty shall be reimbursed to
the City by the responsible property owner(s) for the amount required to
perform the work.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-04, 4-19-2023)
10-39-7: PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING:
Parking lot landscaping standards of this section establish minimum landscaping
requirements for the perimeter and interior of off-street parking areas, access
driveways, and drives to and from drive-up windows. The general purpose of such
landscaping is to reduce the visual impact of parking and pavement. See Chapter
10-38 Parking Section and the project's zone Development Specification
Standards page for parking lot locations and setbacks. Parking lot landscaping
may count towards meeting the Landscaping Performance Minimum Requirements.
   A.   Applicability to All Off-Street Parking Lots: Parking lot landscaping
shall be approved through the Design Review process and shall not be less than
the minimum standards of this chapter.
   B.   Perimeter Parking Lot Landscaping: The parking lot perimeter
landscaping requirements apply to all off-street parking lots that are not
otherwise fully screened from view of adjacent public rights-of-way. Landscape
borders shall be used for open space and landscaping. No structures or paving
shall be located within the border area, with the exception of walls, walkways
or other features incorporated into the landscaping. If adjoining properties
share or abut parking lots, the perimeter landscape requirements are waived for
the two (2) adjoining sides of each parking lot and the two adjoining parking
lots will be calculated as one.
      1.   If the parking lot's front setback is twenty-five feet (25') or
more, the border landscape shall conform to the Type "A" Separation in figure
10-38-7 B. Border trees shall be planted at an average of twenty feet (30') on
center.
      2.   For Type "B" and "C", separation shrubs must be planted at an
average of three feet (3') on center and small trees at fifteen feet (15') on
center along the entire border.
      3.   For Type "C" separations, the earth berm or wall combination shall
be a minimum three feet (3') in height measured from the nearest street's top
back of curb and in combination with plant material to achieve a minimum four
foot (4') tall solid screen at installation.
      4.   For Type "D" separations, when a wall is constructed it must be four
feet (4') in height and in combination with plant material placed at six feet
(6') on center.
      5.   For parking lots containing twenty-five (25) stalls or fewer, five
feet (5') shall be the minimum perimeter border width for the rear and side
borders of the parking lot.
      6.   For parking lots containing more than twenty-five (25) stalls, eight
feet (8') shall be the minimum perimeter border width for the rear and side
borders of the parking lot.
      7.   Side and rear parking lot perimeter borders shall be landscaped with
plant material covering a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the total border
surface area measured at the plant maturity.
      8.   For Type "E" separation requirements when new development is
abutting Highway 89/91.
      9.   No longer needed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2687.png]
 
   C.   Parking Lot Interior Landscaping Requirements: The parking lot interior
landscaping requirements apply to all off-street parking lots that contain five
or more parking spaces. Only areas specified in figure Section
10-39-7 C can be counted towards a project's interior parking lot landscaping
requirements. Interior planting areas are required within all parking lots as
specified in this subsection.
      1.   At least eighteen (18) square feet of interior landscape planting
area shall be provided within the interior of an off-street parking area for
each parking stall contained with the parking area.
      2.   Landscaping located within the interior of a parking area shall be
evenly dispersed throughout the area. All planting areas shall be protected to
prevent damage by vehicles and vehicle overhang.
      3.   When the number of stalls in a parking area exceeds the number of
required parking stalls defined in
Chapter 10-39  by one hundred twenty five percent (125%), the minimum interior
parking lot landscaping requirements shall be increased to thirty-six (36)
square feet of interior landscaping for each parking space contained within the
parking stall.
      4.   All aisles shall have landscaped areas at each end of the aisle.
      5.   One (1) tree shall be planted within the interior of a parking area
per every ten (10) stalls contained within the area. Interior parking area
landscapes shall have a minimum of fifty percent (50%) plant material coverage
measured at plants maturity.
   Figure 10-39-7C: Interior Parking Lot Measurement Area
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2690.png]
 
      6.   For all commercial and industrial zones, parking lot landscaping for
tractor/trailer truck service areas, loading, docking, staging, and truck
parking lots, the Planning Commission shall review and determine landscape
requirements. The Planning Commission may reduce or eliminate the requirement
on the interior of parking lots and paved areas. However, the Planning
Commission shall require, at least, the quantity of plant material required for
interior landscaping to be located at the periphery of parking lots to screen
vehicles and services from public view and to provide buffer landscaping
between adjacent properties. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-39-8: INSTALLATION, REPLACEMENT, OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Accepted Practices Required: All landscaping shall be installed
according to sound nursery practices in a manner designed to encourage vigorous
and healthy growth. All landscape material, living and non-living, shall be in
place prior to the issuance of the final Certificate of Occupancy plant
material shall be in a healthy condition.
   B.   Protection of Existing Trees During Construction: Any trees identified
or approved for preservation by the Planning Commission shall be protected
utilizing accepted techniques for protection. All trees and other vegetation
identified for protection must be watered regularly to maintain vigorous growth
during construction until new irrigation systems are operational at the time of
occupancy.
   C.   Replacement of Dead, Diseased, Or Dying Vegetation: The Beautification
Committee or Planning Commission may require that landscaping be replaced in
kind if vegetation becomes dead, diseased, or dying. In the event of blight or
species-specific diseases, substitution of plants shall be approved by the
Planning Commission or the Beautification Committee.
   D.   Temporary Occupancy Requirements: A Certificate of Occupancy may be
issued prior to the installation of required landscaping upon execution of an
agreement with the City and acceptance by the City of appropriate surety.
      1.   Land development that does not require or is normally utilized
without obtaining a certificate of occupancy shall have landscaping installed
per this chapter prior to the initiation of any use or any occupancy of the
facility, structure, or grounds.
      2.   An agreement for temporary occupancy shall be used only under
extenuating circumstances which prohibit the physical installation of
landscaping at the time the Certificate of Occupancy is issued. Financial or
similar issues shall not constitute extenuating circumstances for the purpose
of this section.
      3.   Financial surety shall be equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of
the estimated cost of the plant material, irrigation, labor, and materials.
         a.   The amount of the surety shall be calculated from a written cost
estimate prepared by an appropriately licensed professional and provided to the
City by the developer. If the Planning Commission finds that the cost estimates
are not generally within accepted standards for estimating the costs of
landscaping installation, the Planning Commission shall require that surety be
based on accepted estimating practices.
         b.   Each estimate shall be guaranteed valid at the maturity of the
surety instrument.
         c.   An irrevocable letter of credit, cash deposit, cashier's check,
certificate of deposit endorsed in favor of the City, performance bond issued
by a bonding company with an investment grade rating by Moodys or Standard and
Poors, or savings account passbook issued in favor of the City shall be
acceptable forms of surety.
      4.   The expiration date of the surety bond shall be determined by the
Planning Commission at the time the agreement is made. The expiration date
shall be appropriate to the project circumstances. If the Surety bond expires,
the City shall have the authority to seize the surety and install the
landscaping. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-39-9: XERISCAPING:
   A.   Qualifications: Xeriscaping or Water-Wise Landscaping is encouraged, as
is, the use and development of secondary irrigation water systems. Xeriscaping
consists of native and drought tolerant plant material placed in conjunction
with groundcover or mulch. Xeriscaping is encouraged throughout the city as a
way to reduce water consumption. The selection of plant material shall be based
on microclimate, exposure and slope of the site. At mature growth plant
material should cover a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the ground. Rocks,
hardscape and mulches alone without native and drought tolerant plantings are
not considered xeriscaping and do not meet these minimum requirements. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-39-10: IRRIGATION:
   A.   Automatic Irrigation Required: All new landscaping installations shall
be required to incorporate an automatic underground irrigation system.
Irrigation systems should be designed to conserve water and avoid erosion of
soils. Irrigation heads should have a matched precipitation rates for each
valve. The irrigation system, when connected to culinary water supplies, shall
have backflow prevention assembly(s) installed to prevent contamination of
culinary water system. Backflow preventer and installation shall meet current
City codes and policies. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-39-11: MAINTENANCE AND UPKEEP OF LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Landscaping To Be Maintained in a Vigorous and Healthy Condition:
      1.   Regular maintenance of all landscaping to present a healthy, neat
and orderly appearance shall be required.
      2.   All landscaping shall be maintained free from disease, pests, weeds
and litter.
      3.   Maintenance shall include weeding, watering, fertilizing, pruning,
mowing, edging, mulching and other maintenance as needed and in accordance with
acceptable horticultural practices.
   B.   Repair And Replacement Of Landscaping:
      1.   Required landscape structures (examples include and are not limited
to walls, fences, curbs, planters) shall be maintained in a structurally sound
and aesthetically pleasing condition.
      2.   The regular maintenance, repair, or replacement of any landscaping
irrigation systems as required by this chapter.
      3.   Continuous maintenance of the site as a whole.
   C.   Aquifer Protection Areas 10-39 Landscaping Requirements: Areas of the
City are designated by Code as "Aquifer Protection Areas." Landscaping within
designated areas may have restrictions as to the types of plants, use of
chemicals, and other standards imposed for purposes of protecting municipal
groundwater quality. See this code and the Utah Division of Drinking Water
R309-600 "Source Protection Regulations". (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-39-12: LANDSCAPING FEATURES ARE A PART OF THE OVERALL APPROVAL:
Trees, shrubs, fences, walls and other landscape features depicted on plans
approved by the City shall be considered as elements of the project in the same
manner as parking, building materials and other details are elements of the
plan. The landowner, heirs, successors in interest, lessees, or agent, shall be
jointly and inseverably responsible for installation, maintenance, and upkeep
as specified in this Title. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-39-13: COMPLIANCE:
Landscaping compliance when it is found not to be physically possible to
achieve compliance with the objectives of this chapter.
   A.   If the Planning Commission finds that site development, location of
existing landscaping, or other physical factors make it physically impossible
to achieve compliance with the provisions of this section, the Planning
Commission may require alternative compliance that conforms to the purpose of
this chapter.
   B.   Alternative compliance may include any or a combination of the
following and is not limited to the alternatives specified in this subsection:
      1.   Planting of street trees and public right-of-way landscaping in the
general vicinity of the subject property.
      2.   Financial contributions related to the approximate value of onsite
landscaping materials and labor into a trust fund to be established for public
landscaping in the neighborhood in which the subject property is located.
      3.   City approved purchase and installation of other landscape or
streetscape amenities, such as and not limited to benches, lighting, public
art, access paths or sidewalks.
      4.   Modification of setbacks and landscape requirements to meet the
purpose of this chapter to the greatest extent possible as determined by the
Planning Commission. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 40
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-40-1: Purpose
10-40-2: Applicability
10-40-3: Permanent Signs
10-40-4: Sign Measurement
10-40-5: Location
10-40-6: Illumination
10-40-7: Permits
10-40-8: Window Signs
10-40-9: Real Estate Signs
10-40-10: Construction Signs
10-40-11: Temporary Signs
10-40-12: Banners
10-40-13: Prohibited Signs
10-40-14: Signs In The Public Right-Of-Way
10-40-15: Electronic Message Display (EMD)
10-40-16: Public Bus Stop Shelter Signage
10-40-17: Archway Signs
10-40-1: PURPOSE:
The purposes of these sign regulations are to encourage the effective use of
signs as a means of communication in the City; to fulfill a community-wide goal
to protect the aesthetic quality of the community; to minimize the possible
adverse effect of signs on nearby public and private property; and to enable
the fair and consistent enforcement of these sign regulations. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
10-40-2: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this section apply to all types of signs, except:
   A.   Official public notice, traffic control, warning, or safety signs as
required by law;
   B.   Appropriately displayed official flags of any country, federal agency,
state, county, or City government;
   C.   Any sign located within a building and not visible from a public
street;
   D.   Display of actual merchandise within display windows in commercial
buildings;
   E.   Identification sign(s) or logo(s) applied to the outside surface of a
vehicle, provided, only if the vehicle or trailer is not used as a sign as
defined in Section
10-40-10 Prohibited Signs. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-40-3: PERMANENT SIGNS:
   A.   Residential Zoning Districts and Residential Uses in Nonresidential
Zones The following standards apply to all permanent residential signs without
regard to the base zoning district. Churches, schools, parks, government
facilities, and community services within residential zoning districts (RCA,
RAC5, ROS1, ROS1/2, RSF, REC, A, FR ) are also regulated by this section and
table
10-40-3A.
      1.   Sign types not listed in the following table are not permitted;
      2.   Only one reader board or message center is allowed per project;
      3.   All electronic message centers require a Design Review Permit prior
to installation.
      4.   See also Sections
10-40-4 through
10-40-7 regarding sign measurement, placement, illumination, and permitting.
      5.   All new projects shall have signage areas and locations designated
and approved as part of the Design Review Permit. Individual sign permits may
be applied for as the tenant space fills up.
Table 10-40-3A.: Residential Signs
Use/ Structure Sign Type Number Area (s.f.) Height (ft.) Setback  Approval Type
type                                                     (ft.)55
Use/                                            Height  Setback      Approval
Structure   Sign Type   Number      Area (s.f.) (ft.)   (ft.)55      Type
type
Multi                   1 per
Family      Building    facade      24          na      na           DR
Complex
           Monument    1 per       24          6       0, not in    DR
                        street                          SDT
                        One per
                        access
                        point to a
           Directional vehicular   3           4       0, not in    DR
                        use area                        SDT
                        within the
                        property or
                        project
Home
Occupation
Churches,
Schools,
Parks,      Building    1 permitted 2           na      na           DR
Government
Facilities,
community
services
           Building    1 per       24          na      na           DR
                        facade
Home        Monument    1 per       24          6       0, not in    DR
Occupation              street                          SDT
Churches,
Schools,                                                2056, not in
Parks,                  1 per                           SDT, within
Government  Directory   street      24          6       15 ft. of    DR
Facilities,             frontage                        primary
community                                               building
services
                        One per
                        access
                        point to a
           Directional vehicular   3           4       0            DR
                        use area
                        within the
                        property or
                        project
 
SDT - Site distance triangle, clear area forty (40) feet from corner
intersection of property line (see Definitions,
Chapter 10-62).
DR - Design Review Permit required (Chapter 10-50).
   B.   Nonresidential Zoning Districts: The following standards apply to all
permanent signs in the commercial, industrial, public, and recreational zoning
districts (CC, CGC, CG, CGC, HT, IND, RPD, PUB, REC) with the exception of
residential uses (see Section 10-40-30A).
      1.   Sign types not listed in the following tables are not permitted;
      2.   Total facade signage is limited to ten percent (10%) of the first
story facade area. Any number of separate building signs are allowable with the
exception of reader boards and electronic message centers;
      3.   Only one reader board or electronic message display is allowed per
project;
      4.   All electronic message displays require a Design Review Permit.
      5.   See also sections
10-40-4 through
10-40-8 regarding sign measurement, placement, illumination, permitting, and
master signage plans.
      6.   All new projects shall have signage areas and locations designated
and approved as part of the Design Review Permit. Individual sign permits may
be applied for as the tenant space fills up.
Table 10-40-3B1: Building Signs in Nonresidential Zoning Districts
Sign Type Zones Area Approval Type
Sign Type                   Zones                 Area            Approval Type
Individual letters          All                   10%             DR
Sign board                  All                   10%             DR
Painted advertising copy    All                   10%             DR
Wall art (non-advertising   All                   10%             DR
copy)
Cabinet                     All but CC            10%             DR
Awning with signage         All                   10%             DR
Reader board with           All                   10%             DR
changeable letters
Electronic message display  CGC, CG, IND, HT only 5% (24 sf max)  DR
Perpendicular within right- CC only               10 sq. ft. each DR
of-way (non- electrical)
Perpendicular not within    All                   10 sq. ft. each DR
right-of-way
Permanent Window signs      All                   10%             DR
(more than 90 days)
 
SDT - Site distance triangle, clear area forty (40) feet from corner
intersection of property line (see Definitions,
Chapter 10-62).
DR - Design Review Permit required (
Chapter 10-50).
Table 10-40-3B.2.: Freestanding Signs for Projects in Non-Residential Zoning
Districts
 
                                 Maximum                  Setback      Approval
Sign Type   Zones    Area (s.f.) Height      Number       (ft.)        Type
                                 (ft.)
                                             1 sign per
                     60 for CG,  6 for all   street
                     CGC, IND,   other       frontage.
                     and HT, 36  zones, 8    1 additional 0', not in
Monument    All      for all     for CG,     sign per     SDT          Staff
                     other non-  CGC, HT and street when
                     res. zones  IND zones   frontage
                                             exceeds
                                             450'.
                                 6 for CC
Menu Board  All      72          zones, 8    2 per drive  20           Staff
                                 for all     through lane
                                 other zones
                                             One per
                                             access point
                                             to a
Directional All      3           4           vehicular    0'           Staff
                                             use area
                                             within the
                                             lot
                                 6 (text on               0', not in
                                 sign shall  one per      SDT, must be
Directory   All      24          not exceed  street       within 15    Staff
                                 two (2)     frontage     ft. of
                                 inches in                primary
                                 height)                  building
                                             one per
            CC, CG,              25 (14 foot street or
Archway     CGC, HT, 48          min.        sidewalk     10           DR
            IND                  clearance)  entrance,
                                             two (2) max.
                                             per project
 
SDT - Site distance triangle, clear area forty (40) feet from corner
intersection of property line (see Definitions,
Chapter 10-62).
DR - Design Review Permit required (
Chapter 10-50).
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-40-4: SIGN MEASUREMENT:
   A.   Sign Face Area Shall be Computed by Means of:
      1.   The area of the sign shall encompass the outer limits of the sign
cabinet frame for signs within a cabinet;
      2.   For signs with individual components, the measurement shall be based
on the letters, emblem, or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background of the area used to differentiate
the sign from its backdrop. When there is no background color differentiation;
letters, emblems or logos will be measured from the tallest and widest portions
(see figure 10-40-45).
   B.   Height: The height of a freestanding sign shall be measured from the
top of the nearest City curb, or if no curb the crown of the nearest road to
the highest portion of the freestanding sign, it is prohibited to build grade
to a higher level to increase the allowed sign height. See 'Height, Sign'
Chapter 10-62 for details on height measurement.
   C.   Clearance: All permitted other than monument signs must have a minimum
clearance of eight and one-half feet (8.5') from the finished grade to the
bottom of the sign. Monument signs shall have a base no more than twenty-four
inches (24") between the bottom of the sign and finished grade and base shall
be solid.
Figure 10-40-45: Sign Measurement
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2698.png]
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-40-5: LOCATION:
   A.   All signs and sign structures shall be located completely within the
boundaries of the lot on which the principal building or use is located;
   B.   No part of a permitted sign shall be placed within the required sight
distance triangle;
   C.   No portion of a freestanding sign may extend into the public right-of-
way;
   D.   All monument signs shall be setback at least eighteen inches (18") from
any adjoining or adjacent sidewalk.
   E.   Building signs shall not project beyond the corner of a building; and
shall not be attached to or extend above the parapet or roof of a building.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-40-6: ILLUMINATION:
   A.   For non-residential zones, no signs within three hundred feet (300') of
a residential zoning district shall be illuminated between the hours of eleven
o’clock p.m. and five o’clock a.m.;
   B.   For residential districts, no sign shall be illuminated between the
hours of ten o’clock p.m. and six o’clock a.m.
   C.   Signs that are externally illuminated shall have a shielded,
stationary, steady light source that is down lit and directed solely at the
sign face;
   D.   Light sources used to illuminate signs shall not be visible from
adjacent rights-of-way or properties. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-40-7: PERMITS:
   A.   Permanent Signs:
      1.   All permanent signs shall have a permit issued by the City prior to
installation. Failure to obtain a sign permit may result in enforcement actions
pursuant to Chapter 10-60;
      2.   Permit applications shall require scale drawings showing the design
of the sign(s) including size, materials, illumination, colors and other items
as determined necessary by staff;
      3.   Permit applications shall require scale drawings showing the
placement of the sign(s) and its location on the building;
      4.   Permit applications for freestanding signs shall require scale site
plans showing the location of the sign(s) on the property, streets, property
lines, buildings, driveways, landscaping, parking areas and other items as
determined necessary by staff;
      5.   The permit number plaque provided by the City shall be affixed to
the lower right hand side of the sign cabinet or to a location identified by a
Department official when the permit is issued;
      6.   Freestanding and perpendicular signs require plans prepared and
stamped by or under the supervision of a professional engineer licensed to
practice in the State of Utah as required by the International Building Code;
      7.   All signs require plans meeting the requirements of the
International Building Code for installation and mounting of signs;
      8.   All permanent signs for which a permit was issued will be considered
legally existing signs. If legally existing signs no longer conform to current
code regulations they will be considered legally existing non-conforming. For
all legal, existing signs that only need to have the graphics or face of the
sign replaced without modifications to the cabinet or frame, a permit is
required but will be issued at no charge.
      9.   All permanent signs that are valued at one thousand dollars ($1,000)
or more are required to be installed by a licensed sign contractor.
      10.   All signs shall comply with applicable provisions of the
International Building Code (IBC) and Article 600 of the National Electrical
Code (NEC) (UL or approved listing required).
   B.   Inspections:
      1.   Inspection of all mounting brackets, electrical work, and
freestanding sign bases shall be required as specified in the International
Building Code;
      2.   Freestanding signs require an inspection of the forms and size of
hole prior to the pouring of concrete;
      3.   Failure to obtain the inspection may result in a prohibition against
using the freestanding sign base without further code compliance;
      4.   Inspections are not required for refaceing of legally existing
signs, painted building signs, wall art, window signs or other types of signs
as determined by the City. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-40-8: WINDOW SIGNS:
   A.   Window displays and signage within stores not attached to windows are
not regulated by the City, even if visible from outside the store;
   B.   Window signs that are displayed without change for a period of less
than sixty (60) days per calendar year shall be defined as "temporary" for
purposes of this chapter. Window signs that are displayed without change for a
period of sixty (60) days or more per calendar year shall be defined as
"permanent" for purposes of this chapter and shall obtain sign permits prior to
installation. (See
Table 10-40-3B1). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-40-9: REAL ESTATE SIGNS:
Real estate signs shall be permitted for all uses, provided that signs are
located outside the sight distance triangle and:
   A.   One such sign shall be allowed per parcel per street frontage;
   B.   Real estate signs shall be non-illuminated;
   C.   Real estate signs on nonresidential sites shall not exceed thirty-two
(32) square feet in area and six feet (6') in height;
   D.   Real estate signs on residential lots shall not exceed four (4) square
feet in area or be more than four feet (4') in height;
   E.   Such signs shall be removed within five (5) days from the date of
closing or full occupancy, if leasing;
   F.   Signs shall not be placed on public property or within the public
right-of-way except for open house signs detailed in subsection H. below; such
off-premise signs may be removed by the City;
   G.   Real Estate Signs shall only be located on the subject property for
sale. Signs which serve as a directional sign to a sale property shall be
prohibited, except as provided in subsection H. of this section. Such off-
premise signs may be removed by the City;
   H.   Open House Signs: In addition to a Real Estate Sign located on the
subject property open house signs shall be permitted as follows:
      1.   Signs are limited to a maximum size of four (4) square feet in area
and four feet (4') in height;
      2.   One open house sign may be permitted within the public right-of-way
within the landscape strip at the nearest corner to direct traffic to the open
house. The sign shall be placed no earlier than thirty (30) minutes before the
start of the open house and shall be removed within one hour of the end of the
open house; and never more than fifteen (15) consecutive hours.
      3.   Associated balloons, streamers, or attention-getting devices shall
be placed on the subject property for sale only and may not cause a safety
hazard;
      4.   Signs shall be on posts that are placed into the ground, sandwich
board or freestanding open house signs shall not be permitted due to the
potential of winds blowing the signs into the traveled way;
      5.   Not more than one open house sign may be placed on a corner;
      6.   No individual open house shall be identified by more than three
signs located within the public right-of-way. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-40-10: CONSTRUCTION SIGNS:
   A.   Construction signs may not be located within the sight distance
triangle;
   B.   Such signs may identify the project name and major participants, such
as and not limited to: owner, developer, planner, architect, engineer, builder,
financier, unions, or skilled trades;
   C.   One sign may be permitted per project per street frontage. One (1)
additional sign is allowed per street per every four hundred fifty feet (450')
of street frontage. No more than four (4) construction signs will be allowed
per project;
   D.   Signs shall not be placed on public property, on utility poles, light
poles, or within the public right of way; such off-premise signs may be removed
by the City;
   E.   For construction of individual single family residences, such signs
shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area and four feet (4') in height
above the ground;
   F.   For non-residential development, residential subdivisions and multi-
family residential construction, signs shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square
feet in area and feet (6') in height;
   G.   Such signs shall be removed within five (5) days of the date of the
issuance of the last certificate of occupancy or sale of all lots; whichever
occurs first. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-40-11: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
Temporary signs shall only be allowed as follows: (see also 10-61 Signs -
Temporary).
   A.   Signs shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet per facing and a maximum
height of four feet (4') above the ground;
   B.   Signs shall be located on private property with the owner's permission;
   C.   Signs shall not be stacked;
   D.   Signs shall not be placed in the public right of way or on public
property;
   E.   Signs shall not be placed in the sight distance triangle;
   F.   Signs shall not be illuminated.
   G.   A maximum of five (5) different temporary signs may be placed on any
one property per calendar year;
   H.   Signs shall be maintained in a safe condition. Signs that are damaged,
broken or displayed in a manner to be a safety hazard shall be subject to
immediate removal;
   I.   Sign shall not be displayed for longer than a cumulative amount of
sixty (60) days in a calendar year;
   J.   Signs shall include a notation or certificate on the back of the sign
listing a responsible person to contact regarding the sign including the name
address and phone number and the dates or date range the sign is displayed.
   K.   Political election signs are temporary signs. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-40-12: BANNERS:
Banners shall only be allowed as follows:
   A.   Banners shall not exceed forty eight (48) square feet in area;
   B.   Banners shall be located on private property with the owner's
permission;
   C.   Banners shall not be placed in the public right of way or on public
property;
   D.   Banners shall not be placed in the sight distance triangle;
   E.   Banners shall be securely attached to the wall of primary buildings;
   F.   Commercial banners shall be maintained in safe condition. Banners that
are damaged, faded, torn, broken, or displayed in such a manner to be a safety
hazard shall be subject to immediate removal;
   G.   Banners shall not hang below the bottom of awnings, canopies, or other
overhangs or between columns or pillars;
   H.   Banners shall not be mounted on freestanding signs;
   I.   A maximum of two banners may be placed on any one property;
   J.   Banners are only permitted in the CC, CG, CGC, HT, IND zoning
districts;
   K.   Banners shall not be displayed for longer than thirty (30) consecutive
days and no more than four times in any calendar year. All attachment apparatus
shall be removed with banner;
   L.   Banners shall include a notation or certificate on the back of the
banner listing a responsible person to contact regarding the banner including
the name address and phone number and the dates or date range the sign is
displayed.
   M.   City sponsored event banners shall be allowed in the CC, CG, CGC, HT,
IND zoning districts and shall meet all requirement for other banners. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-40-13: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs shall be prohibited in all zoning districts unless
otherwise authorized:
   A.   Signs that do not comply with the provisions of this section or sign
types not specified within this section, except for legally existing
nonconforming signs;
   B.   Off-premise signs, except where specifically allowed by this chapter.
   C.   Signs above or within the public rights-of-way except for signs per
section.
   D.   Permanent signs on lots without a principal use;
   E.   Building signs that extend above the parapet or roof;
   F.   Signs attached to the roof of a building;
   G.   Pole Signs;
   H.   Portable "reader boards" and other portable signs that are not attached
to a building or the ground except as otherwise defined in this chapter;
   I.   Signs that rotate, flash, move or give the appearance of motion; not
including barber poles;
   J.   Signs that are attached to or towed behind a vehicle, except for
business identification signs or logos that are permanently affixed to the
vehicle or a magnetic sign that serves the purpose of being affixed to the
vehicle;
   K.   Signs that emit sound, odor or visible matter such as smoke or vapor;
   L.   Signs painted on or attached to utility poles, trees or natural
features (signs painted or engraved onto boulders or natural materials as a
part of the sign permit may be permitted in conformance with this chapter);
   M.   Signs that are abandoned, dilapidated, or advertise businesses that are
no longer licensed or situated on the location;
   N.   Sign structures, poles, pylons, and other supports not maintained or
kept in good aesthetic and physical condition;
   O.   Signs with visible frames unless part of the approved sign design;
   P.   Signs that exhibit words or pictures of an obscene nature;
   Q.   Signs that are inflatable except as otherwise identified in Section
10-40-10;
   R.   Parking of vehicles or trailers off-premise or within landscaped areas
or outside of designated parking stalls or in other areas in a manner primarily
oriented to the adjacent street(s) with signs either attached to or placed upon
that result in the vehicle or trailer serving as a sign or billboard. Unhitched
trailers parked in a parking stall adjacent to street(s) with signage attached
or placed upon. Large vehicles with signage attached or placed upon that are
parked in a manner that consumes more than one parking stall adjacent to street
(s).
   S.   Signage that includes a visible or direct light source with the
exception of neon or other lighting that has been approved as a part of the
sign design (see also Section
10-40-6 on illumination);
   T.   Signs that would cause a violation of the building code;
   U.   "Sandwich boards" or "A frame" signs.
   V.   Attention getting devices, inflatable objects and inflatable signs.
   X.   Signs that are placed, held or worn as part of a costume in the public
right-of-way or off-premise with the intent of advertisement directed to
vehicle and pedestrian traffic.
   Y.   Signs using wood, trees, or other materials that do not have a
foundation or structurally sound anchoring system and present unsafe
conditions. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-40-14: SIGNS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY:
   A.   No Signs Shall be Allowed in the Public Right-of-Way, Except:
      1.   Emergency warning signs erected by a governmental agency, public
utility or contractor authorized to work within the right-of-way;
      2.   Public signs erected by or on behalf of a governmental entity to
post legal notices, convey public information, and direct or regulate
pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
      3.   Community or public events may have signs within the public right-
of-way as approved by the City and the City Administration;
      4.   Informational signs of a public utility regarding its poles, lines,
pipes or other facilities;
      5.   Temporary signs identified elsewhere in this chapter as being
permitted in the right-of-way are not subject to the prohibition of this
section.
      6.   Perpendicular signs as permitted in this chapter are not subject to
the prohibition of this section.
      7.   Cache Valley Transit District (CVTD or Utah Transportation Authority
(UTA)) bus stop shelter advertisements as defined in Section 10-40-14.
      8.   Political election signs are not allowed in the public right-of-way.
   B.   Removal: Any sign installed or placed on public property, except in
conformance with the provisions above, shall be forfeited to the public and
subject to confiscation. In addition to other remedies, the City shall have the
right to recover from the owner or person placing such a sign the full costs of
its removal and disposal. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-40-15: ELECTRONIC MESSAGE DISPLAY (EMD):
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   All signs within this section, pursuant to Table 10-40-4 (B)(1),
shall require a Design Review Permit. Exceptions exist pursuant to Section
10-40-2. Public Service Announcements are also exempt from this title.
      2.   No off premise advertising permitted. Advertising copy may only
advertise business on the same property or within the same project, as outlined
in an approved Design Review Permit, as the sign itself.
   B.   Permitted Zones:
      1.   EMDs shall only be permitted in the CC, CG, HT and IND zoning
districts.
      2.   No EMDs shall be permitted within any other zoning districts.
   C.   Transitions:
      1.   Prohibited Transitions.
         a.   Scrolling or Travel.
         b.   Any text or graphic that "moves" or "has the appearance of
movement" not specified in this section.
      2.   Permitted Transitions.
         a.   Dissolve, to require four (4) seconds of dissolve time between
spots.
         b.   Fade, to require four (4) seconds of fade time between spots.
   D.   Frame Effects:
      1.   Prohibited Effects:
         a.   Flashing and Blinking.
         b.   Starburst.
         c.   Animation and Video.
         d.   New frame effects not identified herein.
         e.   No sign shall utilize a white background for greater than or
equal to fifty percent (50%) of the sign area.
      2.   Permitted Effect(s):
         a.   Static image.
   E.   Dwell Time:
      1.   Each message/advertisement (spot) displayed on an EMD shall remain
"on" and static for a minimum of twenty (20) seconds;
   F.   Operational Characteristics:
      1.   Level One (static) and Level Two (fade or dissolve) operational
modes (as defined by the United States Sign Council) shall be permitted. Where
Level Two is required to use transitions shall that last four (4) seconds from
start of the transition to end of the transition.
   G.   Sign Brightness/Intensity: All EMDs are required to comply with the
following standards:
      1.   EMD Sign Illumination Standards;
Photocell technology is required to be properly installed for all EMDs to allow
for automatic dimming of the intensity of the sign illumination and accommodate
varying light conditions.
      2.   LED and EMD Sign Illumination levels shall never exceed the
following levels:
 
Intensity Level (NITS)
Color      Daytime 15 min after sunrise Nighttime 15 min. after sunset
Red Only   3,000 nits                   500 nits
Amber Only 3,000 nits                   500 nits
Full Color 5,000 nits                   500 nits
 
      3.   Prior to the issuance of a Sign Permit, the manufacturer shall be
required to submit written certification that the EMD has been manufactured to
regulate the light intensity and photocell dimming to prevent the system from
exceeding the maximum levels specified in the above table.
   H.   Sign Area:
      1.   Building Signs.
         a.   EMD sign area shall be included as part of the total allowable
sign area for the building and never to exceed twenty-four (24) square feet.
      2.   Monument Signs: Permitted EMD's shall never solely consist of the
entire sign area and the permitted size of an EMD shall not be more than 50% of
the permitted freestanding sign area of a monument sign; and shall never exceed
thirty (30) square feet in area.
   I.   Compliance:
      1.   New Signs: Any sign applied for or permitted under this chapter
shall comply with Section
10-40-13.
      2.   Existing EMDs. All legally existing non-conforming EMDs shall comply
with Section
10-40-12 (including operational characteristics) and otherwise be regulated by
Section
10-59-8. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-40-16: PUBLIC BUS STOP SHELTER SIGNAGE:
   A.   Location:
      1.   One (1) twenty-four (24) square foot maximum sign advertisement may
be permitted on one of the two walls of the bus shelter that are perpendicular
to the street. Only one perpendicular wall on the shelter can be used for
signage.
      2.   Signage is permitted only at public transportation bus stop shelters
located within the Commercial and Industrial zones and outside of the Historic
District boundaries.
      3.   No signage is allowed on bus stop benches.
   B.   Sign Area:
      1.   Signs shall be a maximum of twenty-four (24) square feet per
shelter.
      2.   Route maps and other transit-oriented information will not be
counted as part of the sign area.
   C.   Sign Illumination:
      1.   Sign lighting or sign illumination is prohibited for this type of
signage.
      2.   No Electronic Message Display (EMD) signs allowed at any bus stop
location.
   D.   Sign Type:
      1.   Sign material shall be attached to bus shelter glass and have a 50/
50 visual opacity ratio that allows bus passenger inside the shelter and bus
driver to see one another.
Figure 10-40-14: Bus Shelter Signage
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2700.png]
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-40-17: ARCHWAY SIGNS:
Archway signs are signs that span either between two buildings or independent
supports structures and only have individual lettering located in front of an
open horizontal cross-support. Archway signs shall only act as a project
identification sign. EMD's are prohibited on archway signs. They may be located
at the vehicle or pedestrian entrances to a project. They shall never be
located above or within the public right-of-way. Illumination shall be minimal
and accomplished with concealed source lighting. If attached to a building, an
archway sign may extend no more than four feet (4') above the highest adjacent
rooflines. Archway signs require design review approval. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
CHAPTER 41
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS
SECTION:
10-41-1: Purpose
10-41-2: General Requirements
10-41-3: Multifamily Dwellings Allowed In The Town Center
10-41-4: Legally Existing Multifamily Uses
10-41-5: Standards And Requirements
10-41-6: Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU) Internal To An Existing Single-Family
Dwelling
10-41-7: Conversion Of Existing Dwelling Or Dwellings To 3 Or 4 Dwelling Units
10-41-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to avoid concentration of large numbers of
multi-family dwellings in any one area, and to allow a diverse mix of
residential uses the following requirements must be fulfilled. "Multi-family
"shall have the same meaning and definition as contained in Chapter 10.62 of
this title.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-41-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Units Allowed: One (1) multiple-family dwelling unit may be allowed for
each city block or future city block. In areas of the city where existing roads
do not define a city block, multi-family dwelling units may be allowed by using
the general plan which defines the ten (10) acre grid of the city. The Planning
Commission will determine where future roads would establish a grid of standard
size city blocks.
   B.   Multifamily dwellings are allowed by Conditional Use Permit.
   C.   Building Configurations: A multiple-family dwelling unit may be in any
one of the following building configurations:
Table 10-41-2 Multifamily Dwellings in the Residential Single Family (RSF) Zone
 
Type                 Number Dwelling Lot Size (s.f. min.) Lot Frontage (feet
                     Units                                min.)
Two-family dwelling  2               13,000               100
Three-family         3               14,000               110
dwelling
Four-family dwelling 4               15,000               120
 
   D.   Lot Area: The minimum size lot for the first dwelling unit of a
multifamily project shall be, at least, the size of the minimum lot required in
the respective residential zone. Each additional dwelling unit shall require an
additional one thousand (1,000) s.f. not to exceed a total of four (4) dwelling
units.
   Figure 10-41-2D Multifamily Dwellings
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2704.png]
 
   E.   Street Frontage: The street frontage for multifamily dwells shall be
the same as shown in Table 10-41-2. Multifamily dwellings shall not be located
facing the same street on two (2) city blocks.
   Figure 10-41-2E: Multifamily Dwellings Dispersed on Blocks
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2706.png]
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-41-3: MULTIFAMILY DWELLINGS ALLOWED IN THE TOWN CENTER:
The Residential Single Family (RSF) zoning district is the older portion of the
city referred to in the General Plan as the Town Center. This zone allows
multifamily dwellings to promote more compact residential uses where utilities,
roads and services can be provided at the lowest cost to residents. The Town
Center possesses vacant land and is an appropriate location for a judicious mix
of housing types and densities. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-41-4: LEGALLY EXISTING MULTIFAMILY USES:
The following specific parcels are recognized as legally existing multifamily
uses because they existed prior to zoning regulations:
   A.   Tax ID no. 11-082-0048.
   B.   Tax ID no. 11-082-0022. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-41-5: STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
All multi-family dwellings, except single-family dwellings intended for
conversion, shall meet the following requirements:
   A.   The building shall be designed by a licensed architect in the state of
Utah. Review plans shall be drawn and submitted in architect's or engineer's
scale and must show utilities, property lines (including adjacent properties),
direction of drainages, existing surface features, topography at five foot (5')
intervals minimum, parking, roads, curbs, walks, landscaping, building floor
plans and building elevations.
   B.   The building shall be designed to appear from the street as a single-
family dwelling with the following characteristics (see General Plan page 5,
item 1.2, multiple family homes):
      1.   No more than two (2) entry doors visible from the street on which
the unit fronts;
      2.   No architectural distinction between individual dwelling units;
      3.   Roof gables and diversity in roof forms;
      4.   No more than three (3) types of exterior building facade materials.
   Figure 10-41-5B
   Design of multifamily dwellings
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2702.png]
 
   C.   Parking must be located in the rear of the building with no more than
two (2) access roads. Access roads may be no wider than twelve feet (12') when
not adjacent to parking. Parking stalls shall have painted lines and shall be
nine feet (9') wide and twenty feet (20') in depth. Drive lanes adjacent to
parking stalls shall be twenty four feet (24') wide. Parking shall be located
with same setbacks as required for structures. No more than one fully enclosed
double car garage will be allowed for each dwelling unit; provided, that a
minimum of two and one-half (2-1/2) parking stalls shall be provided for each
dwelling unit. All driveways and parking shall have six inch (6") curb and two
foot (2') gutters. The Planning Commission may approve parking in the front for
no more than two (2) single car garages which are attached and intergrated into
the design of the dwellings. Access to both garages shall be by a twenty foot
(20') wide shared driveway. Two (2) additional parking spaces may occur in
tandem in front of the garage doors, as occurs in single family homes.
   D.   Complete landscaping shall be provided throughout the entire required
lot area. Underground sprinkler irrigation systems shall be installed and
maintained operational. Street trees shall be planted along the entire road
frontage and spaced no less than thirty feet (30') apart (Sections 10-39-5 and
10-39-6A. Establish in front yard, a minimum of three (3) shade trees, and the
rear yard, a minimum of five (5) shade trees. Trees shall be installed at two
and one-half inch (2-1/2") diameter trunk size. All surface areas shall be
landscaped with lawns, ground covers and shrubs. All landscapes shall be
maintained to keep plants healthy and in vigorous growth. Reference also
Section 10-39-6A and F.
   E.   Storage units, storage areas, and refuge containers must be enclosed
and screened from view from the frontage street. Storage shall only be
available to the residents.
   F.   Care must be taken in the design of the units to minimize window glass
on outside walls adjacent to existing residents.
   G.   Yard lights and security lights must have a concealed light source.
   H.   Open space set-aside requirements for multifamily dwellings shall be
the same as the zone in which permitted. In addition, the development of the
site shall include twenty percent (20%) of the total site, less open space set-
asides, for landscaping and open area for family and occupant enjoyment. The
twenty percent (20%) requirement may include, setbacks, but shall not include
parking areas, driveways, nor building footprint(s) of any main or accessory
structures. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-41-6: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS (ADU) INTERNAL TO AN EXISTING SINGLE-FAMILY
DWELLING:
   A.   Eligibility.
      1.   The purpose of these requirements is to permit accessory dwelling
units internal to a primary dwelling in certain areas while minimizing adverse
impacts to surrounding properties.
      2.   ADUs are permitted in all residential zoning districts.
      3.   An accessory dwelling unit shall only be established in conjunction
with a detached, owner occupied, single family residential dwelling. The
residence shall be the owner’s primary place of residence (primary dwelling).
Non-owner occupied single family dwellings are not eligible for an ADU.
      4.   A primary single-family residential unit is only eligible for one
ADU.
      5.   An accessory dwelling unit shall only be established within the
footprint (internal) of the primary dwelling at the time the accessory dwelling
unit is created. No accessory buildings or detached structures can be used as
an ADU.
      6.   An accessory dwelling unit is prohibited in any other housing type
(townhome, duplex, apartment, etc.).
      7.   In addition to meeting the minimum parking off street parking
requirement of 2 parking spaces for a single-family dwelling, an additional
off-street parking space shall be provided for an ADU. The additional parking
stall comply with Wellsville Land Use Regulations, and shall not be located
within the front setback.
      8.   ADU Design-ADUs shall be designed in a manner that does not change
the appearance of the primary dwelling as a single-family residence. Entrances
for an ADU cannot be placed on the street facing facade.
      9.   The minimum lot size for the creation of an ADU is 6,000 sq. ft.
      10.   A property owner is prohibited from installing a separate utility
meter for an ADU.
      11.   A building permit is required for ADU which shall conform to all
building, health, and fire codes.
      12.   An ADU Landlord License is required prior to creating an accessory
dwelling unit. An ADU Landlord License is not transferable. Following a change
in ownership, a new ADU Landlord License is required.
      13.   Accessory dwelling units in mobile or manufactured homes are
prohibited.
      14.   An accessory dwelling unit shall not be rented or offered for rent
for a period of less than 30 consecutive days. An accessory dwelling unit shall
not be used as a vacation rental or for short term occupancy.
      15.   An ADU becomes abandoned under any of the following conditions:
         a.   If an ADU Landlord License lapses for twelve (12) months,
         b.   If the ADU is not occupied for twelve (12) months,
         c.   Or if the property is no longer owner-occupied.
   B.   ADU Building Requirements.
      1.   Building Permits are required for all new, remodel and finish work.
If construction has occurred without a permit, a building permit shall be
obtained. The project shall be inspected prior to approval of an ADU. In
addition to the minimal building requirements listed below, construction
documents may be required for framing/construction, electrical, plumbing, and
mechanical alterations and remodels. Additional building requirements may apply
as determined by the building inspector.
      2.   Minimum building requirements for establishment of an ADU include:
         a.   Every dwelling unit is required to have a living space/bedroom,
kitchen, bathroom, and shower area.
         b.   Doors in the common walls shall be 20-minute fire-rated and self-
closing.
         c.   Egress windows must be provided per code* (one for each bedroom)
with a minimum opening of 5.7 square feet, when window sill is 44" or more
below finish grade. Grade floor openings shall have a minimum net clear opening
of 5 square feet. Opening shall measure a minimum of 20" wide and 24" high.
         d.   Window wells for egress windows shall have all minimum dimensions
of 36 inches or 24" minimum when installed to earlier code.
         e.   Handrails must be built per code and provided as needed.
         f.   A smoke detector must be provided in each bedroom and in a
hallway or room leading to each bedroom, with a minimum of one on each floor.
         g.   A carbon monoxide detector must be provided on each level of each
dwelling unit.
         h.   All gas-fueled appliances must be provided with the proper amount
of air for efficient combustion.
         i.   All clothes dryers must be vented to the exterior of the
building.
         j.   All outlets in bathrooms, outside, garage, unfinished parts of
basement, and all outlets on the kitchen countertops need to be protected with
a ground-fault-circuit-interrupter receptacle or GFCI breaker.
         k.   Electrical outlets must be tamper-resistant type.
         l.   Minimum ceiling height must be 7'0".
         m.   Bedrooms must be a minimum of 70 square feet for a single
occupant. Bedrooms for more than a single occupant must be 50 square feet for
each occupant, except, if the bedroom was existing and complies to the building
code in effect at the time the bedroom was finished.
   C.   Application Requirements. The following materials are required for an
ADU License:
      1.   Complete ADU Landlord License Application.
      2.   Declaration of Owner Occupancy.
      3.   Two documents to verify owner address (copy of driver’s license,
property tax receipt, utility bill, or mortgage statement).
      4.   Site Plan drawn to scale (including property lines, setbacks,
structures, entrances, walkways, and parking areas).
      5.   Street facing elevations drawn to scale (if exterior changes are
proposed).
      6.   Interior Floor Plan for the ADU drawn to scale (including rooms,
doors, windows, ceiling height, new and existing construction, and location of
smoke detectors and carbon monoxide detectors).
      7.   Building Permit Application, copy of Building Permit or copy of the
Certificate of Occupancy for the ADU if already obtained.
      8.   Fees - ADU Landlord License Application Fee ($75), Building Permit
Fees, and impact fees, if established.
   D.   Application Processing. The Mayor shall designate a person employed by
the city to perform ADU reviews. The Mayor’s designee shall perform the
following:
      1.   Determine conformance with eligibility and design, including
location, lot size, structure type, parking requirements, and alterations or
modifications to the exterior of the home.
      2.   Assess conformance with building code, including interior and
exterior alterations.
      3.   Verify building permit requirements.
      4.   Review and issue ADU Landlord License.
      5.   Verify owner-occupancy of the dwelling unit.
      6.   Process annual renewal of license.
(Ord. 2023-03, 4-19-2023)
10-41-7: CONVERSION OF EXISTING DWELLING OR DWELLINGS TO 3 OR 4 DWELLING UNITS:
   A.   A site plan and an application for a Conditional Use Permit shall be
submitted for consideration by the Planning Commission. Site plan shall show
the entire lot with accurate location of existing dwelling, other structures,
driveways, doorways, walks,
   B.   Trees, fences, buildings on adjoining properties, property lines,
building setbacks and other site features. Plans must be drawn to engineer’s by
a licensed surveyor.
   C.   Required parking for the additional dwelling units may not be located
in the front yard, on existing driveway to garage, or where other parking is
required for the existing dwelling.
   D.   New parking spaces required for the proposed multi-family dwelling must
be designated on the plan. Parking must be easily accessible based on standard
parking conventions (nine foot (9') by twenty foot (20') stalls and twenty four
foot (24') wide drive lane adjacent to parking). The access driveway to new
parking shall be a minimum often feet (10') wide.
   E.   Two (2) parking spaces must be provided for each dwelling unit, plus
one additional space is required for each unrelated person who occupies each
dwelling unit. Parking shall include the required parking for existing dwelling
(s).
   F.   Drawings of exterior modifications to the existing dwelling shall be
submitted with the application. Architectural elevation drawing shall be drawn
to scale and show proposed colors and material.
   G.   The building inspector must issue a certificate of occupancy prior to
occupancy of the dwelling units.
   H.   Other conditions such as landscaping, screening, fencing, etc, as
deemed necessary by the Planning Commission, particularly the multifamily use
must be allowed in the zone in which the existing residence is located.
Emphasis for additional requirements shall be to protect the adjacent single
family residences, and the public image from the public way.
   I.   Any violation of the requirements of the Conditional Use Permit may
result in revocation of the permit and toss of the use as a multiple family
dwelling.
(Ord. 2019-04,10-16-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-03, 4-19-2023)
CHAPTER 42
GROUP HOMES; OTHER FACILITIES
SECTION:
10-42-1: Definitions
10-42-2: Residential Facilities For Persons With A Disability
10-42-3: Residential Facilities For Elderly Persons
10-42-4: Design Standards For Protective Housing, Rehabilitation/Treatment
Facilities (Both Residential And Nonresidential), Transitional Housing And
Assisted Living Facilities, When Allowed As Permitted Or Conditional Use
10-42-5: Nonresidential Treatment Facilities
10-42-6: Limitations
10-42-7: Application And Other Forms
10-42-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to all sections of this title, and except
as provided herein, shall supersede any other definitions contained in this
title:
ADULT DAYCARE   Any building or structure furnishing care, supervision and guidance for three (3)
FACILITY:       or more adults unaccompanied by a guardian for periods of less than twenty four
                (24) hours per day.
                A residential facility, licensed by the state of Utah, with a homelike setting
                that provides an array of coordinated support personnel and healthcare services,
                available twenty-four (24) hours per day, to residents who have been assessed
                under the Utah department of health or the Utah department of human services
                rules to need any of these services. Each resident shall have a service plan
ASSISTED LIVING based on the assessment, which may include:
FACILITY:       A.   Specified services of intermediate nursing care;
                B.   Administration of medication; and
                C.   Support services promoting residence independence and self-sufficiency. Such
                a facility does not include adult daycare provided in conjunction with a
                residential facility for elderly persons or a residential facility for persons
                with a disability.
                A person living in a rented room in a boarding house. The boarding house operator
BOARDER:        or member of his or her immediate family who resides on the premises with the
                operator, shall not be considered to be a boarder.
                A building, or a portion thereof, where, for compensation, rooms are rented,
                together with meals for not more than fifteen (15) boarders who generally do not
                directly utilize kitchen facilities. The operator of a boarding house must reside
                on the premises of the boarding house. The work shall include compensation in
BOARDING HOUSE: money, services or other things of value. A "boarding house" does not include a
                residential facility for disabled persons or a residential facility for the
                elderly. A boarding house does not include a nonresidential facility, such as a
                rehabilitation/treatment facility, where the primary purpose of the facility is
                to deliver rehabilitation, treatment, counseling, medical, protective or other
                similar services to the occupants.
                For purposes of this chapter only, a public building is a building owned and
                operated, or owned and intended to be operated, by the city, a public agency of
                the United States of America, the state of Utah, or any of its political
                subdivisions. The use of a public building, with immunity, is nontransferable and
                terminates if the structure is devoted to a use other than as a public building
BUILDING,       with immunity. A public building referred to as with immunity under the
PUBLIC:         provisions of this title includes:
                A.   Properties owned by the state of Utah or the United States government which
                are outside of the jurisdiction of the city zoning authority as provided under
                Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-304, as amended; and
                B.   The ownership or use of a building which is immune from the city zoning
                authority under the supremacy clause of the United States constitution.
COMMUNITY       A facility licensed or contracted by the state of Utah to provide temporary
CORRECTIONAL    occupancy for previously incarcerated persons which assists such persons in
FACILITY:       making a transition from a correctional institution environment to independent
                living.
CORRECTIONAL    A prison, jail, juvenile detention facility or juvenile secure facility.
INSTITUTION:
                A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of a
                persons major life activities, including a person having a record of such a
                problem or being regarded as having such an impairment. The following is
DISABILITY:     incorporated into the definition of disability: Disability does not include
                current illegal use of, or addiction to, any federally controlled substance as
                defined in section 102 of the controlled substances act, 21 USC 802, or as
                defined under Utah Code Annotated title 58, chapter 37, as amended.
                Persons employed or residing on the premises of a dwelling or other residential
DOMESTIC STAFF: facility to perform domestic services or to assist residents in performing major
                life activities.
                Any elementary or secondary school, seminary, parochial school or private
                educational institution having a curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in
EDUCATIONAL     grades 1 through 12 in public school systems. The term educational institution,
INSTITUTION:    for the purpose of this title, does not include posthigh school educational
                facilities or educational facilities which include residential facilities for its
                students.
EDUCATIONAL     A public or private educational institution with residential facilities or
INSTITUTION     housing for its students and/or staff.
WITH HOUSING:
                A person who is sixty (60) years or older, who desires or needs to live with
ELDERLY PERSON: other elderly persons in a group setting, but who is capable of living
                independently.
                An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage or legal
                adoption according to the laws of the state; also any individual or persons, not
FAMILY:         more than three (3), associated by guardianship, conservatorship or a foster care
                relationship, or a group of not more than three (3) persons not so related or
                associated, living together in a dwelling unit as a single housekeeping unit.
                An institution licensed by the state of Utah which provides diagnostic,
                therapeutic and rehabilitative services to individuals on both an inpatient and
                outpatient basis by or under the supervision of one or more physicians. A medical
HOSPITAL:       clinic or professional office which offers any inpatient overnight care, or
                operates on a twenty four (24) hour basis, shall be considered to be a hospital.
                A hospital may include necessary support service facilities such as laboratories,
                outpatient units and training and central services, together with staff offices
                necessary to operate the hospital.
JAIL:           A place of incarceration owned and operated by the county.
JUVENILE        A place of temporary detention for delinquent juveniles, which either is owned or
DETENTION       operated by the state of Utah or is under contract with the state of Utah.
FACILITY:
JUVENILE SECURE A place of incarceration for delinquent juveniles which is either owned or
FACILITY:       operated by the state of Utah or is under contract with the state of Utah.
MAJOR LIFE      Functions such as caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing,
ACTIVITIES:     hearing, speaking, breathing, learning and working.
                A facility wherein no persons will be housed on an overnight basis, and provides
NONRESIDENTIAL  services, including rehabilitation, treatment, counseling or assessment and
TREATMENT       evaluation services related to delinquent behavior, alcohol abuse, drug abuse,
FACILITY:       sexual offenders, sexual abuse or mental health. Associated educational services
                may also be provided to juvenile occupants.
                An intermediate care/nursing facility or a skilled nursing facility licensed by
                the state of Utah, for the care of individuals who, due to illness, advanced age,
NURSING HOME:   disability or impairment, require assistance and/or supervision on a twenty four
                (24) hour per day basis. Such a facility does not include an adult daycare
                facility or adult daycare provider in conjunction with residential facilities for
                elderly persons or a residential facility for persons with a disability.
PRISON:         A place of incarceration owned or operated by the state of Utah.
PRIVATE JAIL:   A place of incarceration established or operated under a contract with the
                county.
                A correctional facility established or operated under a contract with the state
PRIVATE PRISON: of Utah under the provisions of the private correctional facilities act, Utah
                Code Annotated title 64, chapter 13c, as amended.
                A facility either;
                A.   Operated, licensed or contracted by a governmental entity; or
PROTECTIVE      B.   Operated by a charitable, nonprofit organization where, for no compensation,
HOUSING         temporary, protective housing is provided to:
FACILITY:          1.   Abused or neglected children waiting placement in foster care;
                   2.   Pregnant or parenting teens;
                   3.   Victims of sexual abuse; or
                   4.   Victims of domestic abuse.
                A change in any rule, policy, practice or service necessary to afford a person
                with a disability equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling. The following
                words have the following definitions:
                A.   Equal Opportunity: Achieving equal results as between a person with a
REASONABLE      disability and a nondisabled person.
ACCOMMODATION:  B.   Necessary: The applicant must show that, but for the accommodation, one or
                more persons with a disability likely will be denied an equal opportunity to
                enjoy the housing of their choice.
                C.   Reasonable: A requested accommodation that will not undermine the legitimate
                purpose of existing zoning regulations notwithstanding the benefit that the
                accommodation will provide to a person with a disability.
RECORD OF       Having a record of impairment means having a history of, or having been
IMPAIRMENT:     classified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits
                one or more major life activities.
                A person is regarded as having an impairment when:
                A.   The person has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially
                limit one or more major life activities, but is treated by another person as
REGARDED AS     having such a limitation;
HAVING AN       B.   Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more
IMPAIRMENT:     major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others towards such an
                impairment; or
                C.   Has none of the impairments defined in this section, but is treated by
                another person as having such an impairment.
                A facility licensed or contracted by the state of Utah to provide temporary
                occupancy and supervision of individuals (adults and/or juveniles) in order to
REHABILITATION/ provide rehabilitation, treatment or counseling services. Without limitation,
T REATMENT      such services may include rehabilitation, treatment, counseling or assessment and
FACILITY:       evaluation services related to delinquent behavior, alcohol abuse, drug abuse,
                sex offenders, sexual abuse or mental health. Associated educational services may
                also be provided to juvenile occupants.
                Related by blood, marriage or adoption within the definition of "family" means a
                father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, sister, brother, uncle, aunt,
RELATED:        nephew, niece, first cousin, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law,
                sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild, to include
                the half as well as the whole blood.
                A dwelling unit that is occupied on a twenty four (24) hour per day basis by
                eight (8) or fewer elderly persons in a family type arrangement. A residential
                facility for elderly persons shall not include any of the following:
                A.   A facility which is operated as a business; provided, that such facility may
RESIDENTIAL     not be considered to be operated as a business solely because a fee is charged
FACILITY FOR    for food or for actual and necessary costs of preparation and maintenance of the
ELDERLY         facility;
PERSONS:        B.   A facility where persons being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse are
                placed; a facility where placement is not on a strictly voluntary basis or where
                placement is part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment in
                a correctional institution; or a facility which is a healthcare facility as
                defined by Utah Code Annotated section 26-2-21, as amended; or a facility which
                is a residential facility for persons with a disability.
                A residence in which more than one person with a disability resides and which is:
RESIDENTIAL     A.   Licensed or certified by the department of human services under Utah Code
FACILITY FOR    Annotated title 62A, chapter 2, licensure of programs and facilities; or
PERSONS WITH A  B.   Licensed or certified by the department of human health under Utah Code
DISABILITY:     Annotated title 26, chapter 21, healthcare facilities licensing and inspection
                act.
RESIDENTS,      Any building, or portion thereof, where an individual is actually living at a
RESIDENTIAL     given point and time and intends to remain, and not a place of temporary sojourn
FACILITY:       or transient visit.
                A residential facility designated, occupied and intending for residents fifty
RETIREMENT      (50) years of age or older where common facilities for cooking and dining are
HOME:           available to all residents and independent facilities are provided for living,
                sleeping and sanitation.
                Charitable lodging or sleeping rooms provided on a temporary basis (usually on a
SHELTER FOR THE daily basis) to those members of society lacking other safe, sanitary or
HOMELESS:       affordable shelter. A shelter for the homeless may also include kitchen and
                cafeteria facilities.
SHELTERED       An on site supervised educational or vocational training facility for persons
WORKSHOP:       with a disability and does not provide any residential facilities.
TRADE OR
VOCATIONAL      A post high school educational or vocational training facility.
SCHOOL:
                A facility owned, operated or contracted by a governmental entity or a
                charitable, not for profit organization, where, for no compensation, temporary
                housing (usually three (3) to twenty four (24) months, but in no event less than
TRANSITIONAL    thirty (30) days) is provided to homeless persons, while they obtain work, job
HOUSING         skills, or otherwise take steps to stabilize their circumstances. A transitional
FACILITY:       housing facility shall not include a shelter for the homeless, and a dwelling
                unit provided to a family for the exclusive use as part of a transitional housing
                program, for more than thirty (30) days, shall not be considered to be a
                transitional housing facility. (Ord. 2006-08, 12-6-2006; amd. Ord. 2019-04, 10-
                16-2019)
 
10-42-2: RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY:
   A.   Applicability: This section shall be deemed to govern any facility,
residence or other circumstance that meets the definition of a "residential
facility for persons with a disability", as set forth in section
10-17-1 of this chapter, and the definition of "disability", as set forth in
section
10-17-1 of this chapter. The requirements of this section shall govern
notwithstanding any other provisions of city ordinances. (Ord. 2006-08, 12-6-
2006; and. 2009 Code)
   B.   Purpose: The purposes of this section are:
      1.   To comply with Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-520, as amended;
and
      2.   To avoid discrimination in housing against persons with disabilities
as provided in the Utah fair housing act and the federal fair housing
amendments act, as interpreted by the courts having jurisdiction over the city.
   C.   Permitted Use; Requirements: A residential facility for persons with a
disability shall be a permitted use in any zoning district where a dwelling is
allowed. Each such facility shall conform to the following requirements:
      1.   Code Compliance: The facility shall comply with all applicable
building, safety and health regulations, the Americans with disabilities act,
fire regulations, and all applicable state code standards and licensing
requirements, and any standards set forth in any contract with a state agency.
The facility shall also comply with the city land use zoning provisions
applicable to single-family dwellings for the zone in which it is to be
located, except as may be modified by the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Site Development; Parking and Open Space: The following site
development standards and parking standards shall be applicable:
         a.   Each facility shall be subject to minimum site development
standards applicable to a dwelling unit in the zone in which the facility is
located; and
         b.   The minimum number of parking spaces required shall be the same
as the number required for a dwelling with similar occupancy density in the
same zone.
         c.   Open Space requirements shall be the same as required within the
respective zoning district.
      3.   Prohibited Persons: No facility shall be made available to an
individual who has demonstrated, by prior behavior, actions and/or criminal
convictions, or as a resident, that he or she:
         a.   May be determined to be or does constitute a direct threat to the
health or safety of other individuals; or
         b.   Has or may engage in conduct resulting in substantial physical
damage to the property of others.
      4.   Licensing: Prior to occupancy of the facility, the person or entity
licensed or certified by the department of human services or the department of
health to establish and operate the facility shall:
         a.   Provide a certified copy of such license to the city recorder and
maintain said license in full force and effect at all times;
         b.   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for
a business license, compliance with the Americans with disabilities act;
         c.   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for
a business license, that no person will be placed or remain in the facility
whose prior or current behavior, actions and/or criminal incidents or
convictions, has demonstrated that such person is or may be a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals, or whose said behavior, actions and/
or incidents or convictions have resulted in or may result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others; and such a sworn statement shall be
resubmitted to the city recorder on each sixth month anniversary after the
issuance of the city business license required to operate said facility, the
intent being that there be such a sworn affidavit on file with the city
recorder that is no older than six (6) months;
         d.   Apply for, obtain and maintain a city business license in
accordance with the procedures stated in title 3 of this code, as amended, on
forms to be supplied by the city;
         e.   Any license issued in accordance with the provisions of title 3
of this code, as amended, may be revoked and any application denied, by reason
of the failure of the applicant or licensee to comply with the provisions of
this chapter, said title 3 of this code, or any other applicable statute,
ordinance, rule or regulation, by following the procedures set forth in section
3-1-14 of this code, as amended;
         f.   Obtain and maintain the liability insurance required by the
department of human services, the department of health, or as is standard in
the industry in the event neither state agency requires that such insurance be
obtained and maintained.
      5.   Nontransferable Use: The use permitted by this section is
nontransferable and shall terminate if:
         a.   A facility is devoted to or used as other than a residential
facility for persons with a disability; or
         b.   The license or certification issued by the department of human
services, department of health or any other applicable agency, including the
city, terminates or is revoked; or
         c.   The facility fails to comply with the conditions set forth in
this section.
      6.   Number Of Residents Limited:
         a.   In the RCA, RA, R-1, R-2 and RM-4 zones, no residential facility
for persons with a disability shall exceed six (6) residents, not including
staff, or the family that owns the residence.
         b.   In the A and RPD zones, no residential facility for persons with
a disability shall exceed twelve (12) residents, not including staff, or the
family that owns the residence.
         c.   In the C-2 zone, no residential facility for persons with a
disability shall exceed twelve (12) residents, not including staff, or the
family that owns the residence.
      7.   Zones Prohibited: No residential facilities for persons with a
disability shall be permitted in the FR, M-1, CN, C-1, C-3 and CH zones.
      8.   Appeal: Any decision made in connection with the process of
establishing a residential facility for persons with a disability, except as
provided herein, may be appealed to the city appeal authority (board of
adjustment) if notice of such appeal is filed in writing, clearly stating the
grounds for such appeal, within thirty (30) days after the final decision is
made or within thirty (30) days after the meeting at which the final decision
being appealed is decided. The appeal process shall be handled in the manner
set forth in section
2-2-5 of this code, as amended.
   D.   Reasonable Accommodations: None of the foregoing conditions shall be
interpreted to limit reasonable accommodations necessary to allow the
establishment or occupancy of a residential facility for persons with a
disability.
      1.   Application: Any person or entity who wishes to request a reasonable
accommodation shall make application to the City Council. Said application
shall specifically articulate, in writing, the following:
         a.   The name, mailing address and phone number of the applicant;
         b.   The nature and extent of the disability;
         c.   An exact statement of the ordinance or policy from which the
applicant needs a reasonable accommodation;
         d.   The applicant's proposed reasonable accommodation;
         e.   A statement detailing why a reasonable accommodation is
necessary; and
         f.   The physical address of the property where the applicant intends
on living.
      2.   Considerations for Granting: When considering whether or not to
grant a reasonable accommodation, the City Council shall consider the following
factors, among others deemed appropriate and applicable:
         a.   The zoning ordinance applicable to the property;
         b.   The parking, traffic and noise impact on the neighborhood if the
reasonable accommodation is granted;
         c.   Whether or not the accommodation will be an undue burden or
expense to the city;
         d.   The extent to which the accommodation will or will not benefit
the applicant;
         e.   The extent to which the accommodation will or will not benefit
the community;
         f.   Whether or not the accommodation fundamentally alters the
citywide zoning ordinance and whether or not the accommodation would likely
create a fundamental change in the character of a residential neighborhood;
         g.   Whether or not the applicant has demonstrated that the
accommodation will affirmatively enhance the applicant's life, or ameliorate
the effects of the applicant's disability, or the lives or disabilities on
whose behalf the entity is applying;
         h.   Whether or not, without the accommodation, similar housing is
available in the city for the applicant or group of applicants;
         i.   Given the scope of the accommodation requested, what is the
impact on the immediate neighborhood; and
         j.   The requirements of applicable federal and state laws and
regulations.
      3.   Findings and Conclusions: Written findings and conclusions of the
City Council shall be sent to the applicant within thirty (30) days after the
decision by the City Council.
      4.   Denial; Appeal: In the event a request for a reasonable
accommodation is denied, such decision may be appealed to the first district
court for Cache County for review, if the petition of review/appeal is filed
with the district court within thirty-five (35) days after the written findings
and conclusions supporting and stating the City Council's decision have been
sent to the applicant. The review/appeal process shall be handled in the manner
set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-801, as amended. (Ord. 2006-
08,12-6-2006) (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-42-3: RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR ELDERLY PERSONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to comply with Utah Code
Annotated sections 10-9a-516 through 10-9a-519, as amended.
   B.   Requirements: Residential facilities for elderly persons shall comply
with all requirements of Utah Code Annotated sections 10-9a-516 through 10-9-
519, and also the following requirements:
      1.   Code Compliance: The facility shall meet all applicable building
codes, safety codes, zoning regulations, the Americans with disabilities act,
and health ordinances applicable to single-family or similar dwellings, except
as may be modified by the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Prohibited Persons: No facility shall be made available to an
individual who has demonstrated, by prior behavior, actions and/or criminal
convictions, or as a resident, that he or she:
         a.   May be determined to be or does constitute a direct threat to the
health or safety of other individuals; or
         b.   Has or may engage in conduct resulting in substantial physical
damage to the property of others.
      3.   Site Development: Minimum site development standards shall be the
same as those for a dwelling unit in the zone in which the facility is located.
      4.   Residential Character Maintained: The facility shall be capable of
being used as a residential facility for elderly persons without structural or
landscaping alterations that would change the structure's residential
character.
      5.   Nontransferable Use: The use granted and permitted by this section
is nontransferable and terminates if the structure is devoted to any use other
than as a residential facility for the elderly, or if the structure fails to
comply with the applicable health, safety, zoning and building codes.
      6.   Distance To Similar Facilities: No residential facility for elderly
persons, which facility has more than five (5) elderly persons in residence,
shall be established or maintained within seven hundred feet (700'), measured
in a straight line between the closest property lines of the lots or parcels of
similar facilities, residential facilities for persons with disabilities,
protective housing facilities, transitional housing facilities, assisted living
facilities, rehabilitation/treatment facilities, or a nonresidential treatment
facility.
      7.   Appeal: Any decision made in connection with the process of
establishing a residential facility for elderly persons, except as provided
herein, may be appealed to the city appeal authority (board of adjustment), if
notice of such appeal is filed in writing, clearly stating the grounds for such
appeal, within thirty (30) days after the final decision is made or within
thirty (30) days after the meeting at which the final decision being appealed
is decided. The appeal process shall be handled in the manner set forth in
section
2-2-5 of this code, as amended.
      8.   Licensing; Insurance: Prior to occupancy of the facility, the person
or entity licensed or certified by the department of human services or the
department of health to establish and operate the facility, shall:
         a.   Provide a certified copy of such license to the city recorder and
maintain said license in full force and effect at all times;
         b.   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for
a business license, compliance with the Americans with disabilities act;
         c.   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for
a business license, that no person will be placed or remain in the facility
whose prior or current behavior, actions and/or criminal incidents or
convictions, have demonstrated that such person is or may be a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals, or whose said behavior, actions and/
or incidents or convictions has resulted in or may result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others; and such a sworn statement shall be
resubmitted to the city recorder on each sixth month anniversary after the
issuance of the city business license required to operate said facility, the
intent being that there be such a sworn affidavit on file with the city
recorder that is no older than six (6) months;
         d.   Apply for, obtain and maintain a city business license in
accordance with the procedures stated in title 3 of this code, as amended, on
forms to be supplied by the city;
         e.   Any license issued in accordance with the provisions of title 3
of this code, as amended, may be revoked and any application denied, by reason
of the failure of the applicant or licensee to comply with the provisions of
this chapter, said title 3 of this code, or any other applicable statute,
ordinance, rule or regulation, by following the procedures set forth in section
3-1-14 of this code, as amended; f. Obtain and maintain the liability insurance
required by the department of human services, the department of health, or as
is standard in the industry in the event neither state agency requires that
such insurance be obtained and maintained. (Ord. 2006-08,12-6-2006; amd. Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-42-4: DESIGN STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE HOUSING, REHABILITATION/TREATMENT
FACILITIES (BOTH RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL), TRANSITIONAL HOUSING AND
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES, WHEN ALLOWED AS PERMITTED OR CONDITIONAL USE:
Any newly constructed or remodeled facility in a residential zone, or
immediately abutting a residential zone, shall comply with the following design
standards:
   A.   Setbacks: All setbacks shall be according to the requirements of the
residential zone in which the facility sits, or if the facility is in a
commercial zone abutting a residential zone, the setbacks shall be those of the
abutting residential zone.
   B.   Parking Areas: All required or accessory parking areas shall be located
either in the rear yard area of the lot, or behind the main building or garage.
   C.   Height: Notwithstanding the maximum height restrictions of the
individual residential zone, new buildings or additional buildings shall not
exceed one hundred ten percent (110%) of the average height of the closest
dwellings on both sides of the proposed structure.
   D.   Design and Character Standards: In order for new construction to
reflect the design and character of the existing neighborhood, the following
standards shall be met:
      1.   The roof design of the proposed structure or remodel roof shall be a
pitched roof of the same slope as the most common roof slope of the homes on
the side of the block on which the building is proposed; and
      2.   The type of exterior materials shall be of traditional home finish
materials of brick, siding or stucco. The use of these materials shall be
applied in such a manner as to blend in with the neighborhood where the
building is located and not draw undue attention to the building because of the
materials, their color and combination being uncharacteristic of the other
buildings in the neighborhood.
      3.   Open space set-aside requirements for Group dwellings shall be the
same as the zone in which permitted. In addition, the development of the site
shall include twenty percent (20%) of the total site, less open space set-
asides, for landscaping and open area for family and occupant enjoyment. The
twenty percent (20%) requirement may include, setbacks, but shall not include
parking areas, driveways, nor building footprint(s) of any main or accessory
structures.
   E.   Prohibited Persons: No facility shall be made available to an
individual who has demonstrated, by prior behavior, actions and/or criminal
convictions, or as a resident, that he or she:
      1.   May be determined to be or does constitute a direct threat to the
health or safety of other individuals; or
      2.   Has or may engage in conduct resulting in substantial physical
damage to the property of others.
   F.   More Restrictive Provisions Prevail: To the extent similar requirements
to any contained in this section are contained in the specific zone in which
any facility referred to herein may be located, the more restrictive provisions
shall apply, and the requirements stated herein shall be considered to be in
addition to presently existing zoning regulations, subject to the conflict
resolution provisions of this subsection. (Ord. 2006-08, 12-6-2006; amd. Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-42-5: NONRESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITIES:
Nonresidential treatment facilities shall not be built within the city, except
as specifically allowed as a permitted or conditional use by proper designation
in a zone or zones in this title. Each permitted facility, or facility allowed
as a conditional use, shall conform to the following requirements:
   A.   Code Compliance: The facility shall comply with all building, safety,
zoning and health regulations, the Americans with disabilities act, fire
regulations, and all applicable state code standards and licensing
requirements, and any standards set forth in any contract with a state agency.
   B.   Site Development; Parking: The following site development standards and
parking standards shall be applicable:
      1.   Each facility shall be subject to minimum site development standards
applicable to a business in the zone in which the facility may be located; and
      2.   The minimum number of parking spaces required shall be the same as
the number required for an office building with similar size, occupancy and
density in the same zone.
   C.   Licensing: Prior to occupancy of the facility, the person or entity
licensed or certified by the department of human services or the department of
health to establish and operate the facility shall:
      1.   Provide a certified copy of such license with the city recorder;
      2.   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for a
business license, compliance with the Americans with disabilities act;
   D.   Nontransferable Use: The use permitted by this section is
nontransferable and shall terminate if:
      1.   A facility is devoted to or used as other than a nonresidential
facility; or
      2.   The license or certification issued by the department of human
services, department of health, or any other applicable agency, terminates or
is revoked, or the facility fails to comply with the conditions set forth in
this section.
   E.   Distance To Similar Facilities: No nonresidential treatment facility
shall be established or maintained within seven hundred feet (700'), measured
in a straight line between the closest property lines of the lots or parcels,
of the following facilities:
      1.   A residential facility for persons with a disability;
      2.   A residential facility for elderly with more than five (5) elderly
persons in a residence; or
      3.   Any of the following facilities: protective housing facility,
transitional housing facility, assisted living facility or rehabilitation/
treatment facility, a nonresidential treatment facility, and elementary
schools.
   F.   Prohibited Persons: No facility shall be made available to an
individual who has demonstrated, by prior behavior, actions and/or criminal
convictions, or as a resident, that he or she:
      1.   May be determined to be or does constitute a direct threat to the
health or safety of other individuals; or
      2.   Has or may engage in conduct resulting in substantial physical
damage to the property of others.
   G.   More Restrictive Provisions: To the extent similar requirements to any
contained in this section are contained in the specific zone in which any
facility referred to herein may be located, the more restrictive provisions
shall apply, and the requirements stated herein shall be considered to be in
addition to presently existing zoning regulations, subject to the conflict
resolution provisions of this subsection. (Ord. 2006-08, 12-6-2006; amd. Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-42-6: LIMITATIONS:
Only such uses and facilities as are specifically authorized in this chapter
and title as permitted or conditional uses shall be allowed. All other uses and
facilities are prohibited. (Ord. 2006-08,12-6-2006; amd. Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-42-7: APPLICATIONS AND OTHER FORMS:
Certain applications and other forms are referred to in this chapter. It is
hereby provided that such applications and other forms shall be prepared by the
city and adopted for use by the city in connection with this chapter, by
resolution duly adopted by the City Council. In addition, the forms may be
amended or otherwise changed, or replaced, also by resolution duly adopted by
the City Council. (Ord. 2006-08, 12-6-2006; amd. Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 43
HOME OCCUPATIONS
SECTION:
10-43-1: Purpose
10-43-2: Conditional Use Permit And Business License Required
10-43-3: Definitions
10-43-4: Level One Home Occupation Requirements
10-43-5: Level Two Home Occupation Requirements
10-43-6: Application Form
10-43-7: Review Of Home Occupation Conditional Use Permits
10-43-8: Loss Of Home Occupation Use; Revocation
10-43-9: Appeals
10-43-10: Existing Home Occupations
10-43-11: Nontransferability
10-43-1: PURPOSE:
In order to accommodate entrepreneurial desires of citizens and to respect the
purpose of residential areas of the City, the City Council finds and declares a
need to accommodate home occupations as uses accessory to residences. Many
types of businesses can be conducted at home with little or no effect on the
surrounding neighborhood. Businesses in the home are intended to be
nonintrusive in the neighborhood. Traffic is to be generally the same as
conventional homes. The businesses are to be of a compact nature that does not
require accessory buildings or additions to the home. The customer traffic that
may occur is to be limited and low intensity, similar to the visitors who come
to homes without businesses. The regulations of this chapter are intended to
permit residents to engage in home occupations while enduring that the
businesses will not be a detriment to the character and livability of the
surrounding neighborhood. It is the City Council's purpose that home
occupations remain accessory and subordinate to the permitted residential uses
and that the residential viability of the dwelling unit is maintained. Home
occupations are intended to be businesses that function within the residence
and not business sites within which residential use becomes subordinate. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-43-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT AND BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
All home occupations shall only be allowed as a conditional use in the zones in
this title where they are so designated. All conditional uses shall not
commence until the applicant has obtained a conditional use permit from the
Planning Commission and a business license from the City Council.
Approvals by conditional use shall be administered as follows:
   A.   Level One Home Occupation shall be administered by review by staff and
approval shall be granted upon the applicant meeting requirements herein for
Level One Home Occupations. If staff determines that approval of an application
is complicated and cannot be fairly determined by staff the application may be
referred to the Planning Commission. Applicants may appeal staff decisions
about Level One Home Occupations to the Planning Commission. Conditions of
approval may not be imposed by staff unless reviewed and approved by the
Planning Commission. Level Two Home Occupation shall be administered by the
Planning Commission at their regularly scheduled meetings. Approval shall be
granted upon the applicant meeting requirements for the conditions for approval
and as also required herein for Level Two Home Occupations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019)
10-43-3: DEFINITIONS:
 
LEVEL ONE   A home occupation included on the approved list set forth in Section
HOME        10-43-4A.of this section, which is conducted inside the primary
OCCUPATION: residence and meets the requirements of Section
            10-43-4B of this section.
            A home occupation not meeting the requirements of level one home
LEVEL TWO   occupation that uses property, garages, carports and/or accessory
HOME        buildings for offices, storage or shelter for equipment, materials, and
OCCUPATION: goods associated with the home occupation, subject to the restrictions
            herein provided. (1991 Code § 17.12.200, as amended; amd. Ord. 2019-04,
            10-16-2019)
 
10-43-4: LEVEL ONE HOME OCCUPATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Allowed Uses: The following home occupations, as a general rule, have
been determined to meet the stated required standards described in Section
10-43-4B of this section for a level one home occupation. The applicant for
such a home occupation is not required to obtain a conditional use permit from
the Planning Commission and a business license from the City Council. However,
the applicant shall appear before the Planning Commission to clarify that the
applicant will comply with the requirements for a Level One Home Occupation and
to ensure that the use is permitted. Compliance with Section
10-43-4B of this section is required. The holder is subject to the revocation
of either or both the permitted use in the event of a failure to maintain
compliance with the stated standards. (Ord. 2003-05, 12-17-2003)
      1.   Doctors for consultation or treatment on an occasional basis, not
for full time practice;
      2.   Lawyers for consultation;
      3.   Writers, editors;
      4.   Computer programmers, data processing;
      5.   Telephone solicitors;
      6.   Seamstresses, tailors and related occupations;
      7.   Order processing where the stock of goods is stored elsewhere;
      8.   Artists, artisans, craftsman, photographers, sculptors and related
artistic work (not for teaching classes or maintenance of a public gallery);
      9.   Architects;
      10.   Insurance agents;
      11.   Engineers;
      12.   Real estate licensees;
      13.   Clerical, secretarial, notary publics, accounting, drafting and
similar office work;
      14.   individual private instructors/tutors;
      15.   Cosmetology; and
      16.   Other home occupations similar to those in this subsection judged
by the Planning Commission to be in harmony with the character and intent of
the zone in which it is proposed to be located.
   B.   Conditions and Requirements: Level one home occupations shall be
allowed as conditional uses, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   All home occupations shall have a business license renewed each year
by the city;
      2.   Required state and city professional licenses shall be shown prior
to receiving a business license, and shall be maintained in a valid,
nonsuspended or unrevoked status;
      3.   The home occupation must be clearly incidental and secondary to the
primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes;
      4.   The home occupation shall be conducted such that the neighbors,
under normal conditions, would not be aware of its existence;
      5.   The residence must be the principal residence of those conducting
the home occupation;
      6.   The home occupation work conducted at the residence shall only
involve those persons lawfully living in the residence;
      7.   No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the residence may be used
for home occupation and this area shall remain in character with the rest of
the home;
      8.   Inventory or other materials used in conjunction with the home
occupation shall be kept within the residence;
      9.   The home occupation shall not generate any additional vehicular
traffic or parking in the city right of way beyond that normally seen in a
residential neighborhood;
      10.   A maximum of one additional vehicle associated with the home
occupation, other than those used for the residents of the home, may be stored
at the residence. This vehicle shall be parked on the property where the home
occupation is located. Any vehicle with a rating over one ton shall be parked
to the side or rear of the residence;
      11.   Long term parking (in excess of one half (1/2) hour) required for
the home occupation shall be provided off the city right of way;
      12.   No noise, odor, light, vibrations, dust, gas or magnetic
interference in excess of that normally experienced in a residential
neighborhood shall be permitted beyond the premises on which the home
occupation is located;
      13.   There shall be complete conformity with fire, building, plumbing,
electrical and health codes, and all state and city ordinances;
      14.   A nonilluminated sign will be permitted on the property, which must
be in compliance with
Chapter 10-40 of this title. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-43-5: LEVEL TWO HOME OCCUPATION REQUIREMENTS:
Level two home occupations shall be allowed as conditional uses, subject to the
following:
   A.   All requirements for level one home occupations shall apply unless
otherwise noted in this section;
   B.   The conditional use permit shall be obtained from the Planning
Commission and approved by the City Council, as a part of issuing the business
license required;
   C.   The home occupation shall be conducted in a manner such that impact to
neighbors and the surrounding area is minimized;
   D.   The home occupation work conducted at the residence shall involve a
maximum of two (2) additional employees other than those persons lawfully
living in the residence;
   E.   No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the property, including
parking, where the home occupation is located, may be used for business
purposes. This area shall remain in character with the rest of the
neighborhood;
   F.   Inventory or other materials used in conjunction with the home
occupation shall be kept within a garage, accessory building or home occupation
property and shall not be noticeable from adjacent properties or rights of way;
   G.   The Planning Commission shall approve any parking of home occupation
vehicles not meeting level one requirements
   H.   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing in connection with
each application for a level two conditional use permit. (1991 Code §
17.12.200, as amended; amd. Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-43-6: APPLICATION FORM:
The city shall be required to provide all necessary forms for making an
application for a conditional use permit and a business license for level one
and level two home occupations. It is not uncommon for such forms to evolve
with time and use, which results in city officials coming to understand that
new or different information is needed in connection with such applications.
The City Council is specifically allowed hereby to modify such applications as
deemed necessary by the City Council, based on its own judgment and
recommendations from the Planning Commission and other interested parties. In
the event such changes are determined to be necessary, the changes may be made
to the form, and once made, the application form, as revised, shall become the
official application form for a level one or a level two home occupation
application, whether it be for a conditional use permit or a business license.
When such changes are made, it shall not be necessary to amend this section as
authority for such ministerial duties is hereby granted to the appropriate city
officials. The currently approved application forms for a business license for
both a level one and a level two home occupation business are on file in the
city office. These forms are hereby adopted as the official home occupation
business license applications for level one and level two home occupations,
until modified by the City Council at some future date. {'{'}1991 Code §
17.12.200, as amended; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-43-7: REVIEW OF HOME OCCUPATION CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   The Planning Commission, as often as it deems necessary, upon the
filing of a complaint from a citizen or other interested party of the
community, which includes members of the elected and appointed officers and
employees of the city, or upon the proposed expansion of the home occupation,
will review a home occupation conditional use permit for compliance.
   B.   Level two conditional uses will be reviewed every three (3) years by
the Planning Commission, or more often if deemed by the Planning Commission to
be necessary. These reviews will occur prior to renewal of a business license.
   C.   Home occupation applicants shall permit reasonable inspection of the
premises by a member of the Planning Commission to determine compliance with
applicable laws and any conditional use permit and/or business license. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-43-8: LOSS OF HOME OCCUPATION USE; REVOCATION:
   A.   To maintain a conditional use, it is necessary to have a conditional
use permit issued by the Planning Commission as provided in
Chapters 10-49,
10-55 and 10-56 of this title, and a business license issued by the City
Council as provided by City Code. If either or both of the permit and/or
business license is revoked, suspended or otherwise terminated, the conditional
use shall cease.
   B.   In conjunction with the provisions of Section
10-43-7 of this section, and as provided in Chapters 10-49, 10-55 and 10-56 of
this title, a home occupation conditional use permit may be revoked in
accordance with said Chapters 10-49, 10-55 and 10-56 of this title.
   C.   The review, suspension, refusal to renew and/or revocation of the
conditional use permit holder's business license is governed by title 3 of this
code, and specifically section 3-1-14 of this code. Pursuant to said section
3-1-14 of this code and any others which are applicable, the City Council has
the authority to review and revoke, suspend or refuse to renew a business
license; and if such action is taken by the City Council, the business
conducted as a home occupation shall immediately cease until the required
conditional use permit and/or business license is reinstated. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
10-43-9: APPEALS:
Any appeals in connection with the revocation of a home occupation conditional
use permit or a revocation, suspension or refusal to renew a business license
related to a home occupation conditional use are governed by the appeals
process as outlined in Chapters 10-49, 10-55 and 10-56 of this title, together
with any other applicable laws and regulations as contained in this code. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-43-10: EXISTING HOME OCCUPATIONS:
Existing home occupation activities and uses, which are in legal existence as
of February 20, 2002, with their legality to be determined under the provisions
of ordinance 98-04, in effect at the time this amendment is adopted and
effective, but which are no longer legally allowed within the zone in which
they are located by reason of the adoption of this amendment, may be maintained
for subsequent years, subject to the following conditions:
   A.   The home occupation must comply with all conditions and provisions
imposed by the prior ordinance;
   B.   Any changes or enlargements made to the existing home occupation will
impose the provisions of this section, and the existing home occupation must
then be brought into compliance with the provisions of this section
immediately. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-43-11: NONTRANSFERABILITY:
Home occupation uses, permits and business licenses under this and related
sections of the law, are personal to the applicant or home occupation owner,
are nontransferable and do not run with the land. In the event the property on
which an existing home occupation is located should be sold or otherwise
transferred, it will result in the immediate termination of the right to
continue the home occupation and the conditional use permit and business
license. If it is the intent of the new owner to continue the home occupation,
it will be necessary for the new owner to obtain a new conditional use permit
and a new business license before continuing the existing home occupation on
the premises involved. (1991 Code § 17.12.200, as amended; amd. Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 44
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-44-1: Purpose
10-44-2: Fences And Walls
10-44-3: Reserved
10-44-4: Adult-Oriented Businesses
10-44-5: The Right To Farm
10-44-6: Keeping Of Animals And Fowl
10-44-7: Structure Relocation, Trailer Containers, And Portable Carports
10-44-8: Manufactured Homes
10-44-9: Ag-Tourism
10-44-9-1: Purpose
10-44-9-2: Definitions
10-44-9-3: Applicability
10-44-9-4: Required Standards
10-44-9-5: Farm Classification
10-44-9-6: Permitted Use Table
10-44-9-7: Permitting Procedures
10-44-9-8: Ag-Vendors
10-44-1: PURPOSE:
   This chapter is intended to provide development standards for specific
categories of land uses for which conventional development standards of this
Title need to be supplemented.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-44-2: FENCES AND WALLS:
   A.   All fence walls and retaining walls shall conform to the provisions of
this chapter. All references to fences are inclusive to walls, and retaining
walls.
      1.   Fences, Walls, And Retaining Walls, Fence, walls, and retaining
walls requirements on the property line(s) facing a single street (lots with
only one street frontage.
         a.   The height of fences located within the front yard setback:
            (1)   Solid fences or fences that are less than 50 % open shall be
have a height of no more than three (3) feet.
            (2)   Fences that have openings that are 50% or greater shall not
exceed four (4) feet.
         b.   Fences may be located on the property line but not within the
public right- of-way.
         c.   Chain link fencing is prohibited in the front yard between the
front property line and the front of the dwelling or building.
      2.   Fence requirements on the side and rear property lines:
         a.   Fences along the rear property line (unless the rear property
line fronts a street) shall be a maximum of six feet (6') in height, except for
the portion of the rear property line that due to lot configuration may be
within a front setback,
         b.   Fences along the side property line (unless the side property
line fronts a street) shall be a maximum of six feet (61) in height, except for
the portion of the side property line within a front setback,
         c.   No fence located within the site distance triangle (see
10.62 and
10.38.8D) shall have a height greater than a fence allowed in the front yard.
      3.   Fence requirements, for lots with more than one. street frontage:
         a.   No fence shall be higher than fences allowed in the front yard on
the property line or at any point within the front setback except as follows:
            (1)   The property owner shall declare one frontage of the lot as
the “front,” and a fence allowed in the front yard may be located within the
front setback,
            (2)   The property lines fronting any other street or streets that
are not declared as the “front” site may be fenced with the following options:
               (A)   A fence allowed in the front yard may be constructed along
the property line, or
               (B)   A six-foot high fence may be constructed on the property
line provided that any portion of the fence located within the site distance
triangle (see
10.62 and
10.38.8D) is reduced in height as allowed within the front yard.
      4.   Measurement of fence height
         a.   The height of a fence shall me measured at any point along the
run of the fence from the finished grade to the top of the highest component of
the fence.
         b.   Where there is a difference in the ground level between two
adjacent parcels, the height of a fence or wall constructed along the property
line shall be determined by using the finish grade of the lowest contiguous
parcel.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2816.png]
   Height Measurement of Fences and Walls in Front Yard
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2818.png]
   Height Measurement of Fences and Walls on Slopes
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2820.png]
   Height Measurement at Property Line when Grades are Different
(Ord. 2022-02, 3-2-2022)
10-44-3: RESERVED:
10-44-4: ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent the concentration of adult-oriented businesses
or their location in areas deleterious to the City, regulate the signage of
such businesses, control the adverse effects of such signage, and prevent
inappropriate exposure of such businesses to the community. The chapter is to
be construed as a regulation of time, place, and manner of the operation of
these businesses, consistent with the United States and Utah Constitutions.
   B.   Location Of Businesses - Restrictions:
      1.   Adult oriented business shall be conditionally permitted in the
Industrial (IND) district subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   No adult-oriented business shall be located:
         a.   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any school, public park,
library, or religious institution,
         b.   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any residential use (no
matter which zoning district) or residential zoning boundary,
         c.   Within six hundred feet (600') of any other adult-oriented
business,
         d.   Within six hundred feet (600') of any gateway or gateway corridor
as identified in this Title and the General Plan. The distance shall be
measured from the edge of the right-of-way.
      3.   Distance requirements between structures and uses specified in this
section shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or zoning districts, from the perimeter property boundaries of the
school, public park, religious or cultural activity, residential use, or other
adult-oriented business, or from the edge of right-of-way of a gateway to the
structure of the adult-oriented business.
      4.   Distance requirements from zoning districts for this section shall
be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
zoning districts, from the closest zoning boundary of a residential or
agricultural district to the adult-oriented business structure.
   C.   Effect on Non-Conforming Businesses: All lawfully established, legally
existing, non-conforming adult-oriented businesses, shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter by ninety (90) days after adoption of the Chapter,
except in the case in which a business is required to be relocated. In such
cases where relocation is required for conformance with this section, the
business shall comply within one (1) year after adoption of this Chapter.
   D.   Signs: Signs for adult-oriented businesses shall be subject to the
limitations of this section regardless of standards within Chapter 10-40 of the
Wellsville City Code.
      1.   No more than one exterior building-mounted sign shall be permitted,
      2.   No sign shall exceed eighteen (18) square feet in total sign area,
      3.   No animation shall be permitted on or around any sign or on the
exterior walls or roof of such premises,
      4.   No descriptive art or designs depicting any activity related to or
inferring the nature of the business shall be permitted on any sign. Signs
shall contain alphanumeric copy only.
      5.   Only flat wall signs shall be permitted; awnings shall be permitted
only to display the street number in letters or numbers no greater than eight
inches in height,
      6.   Painted wall advertising shall not be allowed,
      7.   Other than the signs specifically allowed by this chapter, the
adult-oriented business shall not attach, construct, or allow to be attached or
constructed any temporary sign, banner, light, or other device designed to draw
attention to the business location. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-44-5: THE RIGHT TO FARM:
   A.   Findings:
      1.   As Wellsville grows, the City will begin to annex land area that is
currently in agricultural production.
      2.   The City still has agricultural uses within its existing boundaries.
      3.   The City recognizes that the owners of these farms have certain
rights for the agricultural uses to continue.
      4.   Protecting the rights of agricultural uses to continue is important
in order to avoid the conflict between long-standing agribusinesses and newly
settled homeowners.
   B.   Right To Farm Standards:
      1.   The right of a farm may continue using standard agricultural
practices for purposes of commercial farming, ranching, or crop production.
These agricultural uses are permitted uses.
      2.   To be protected with the "right to farm," agricultural uses shall
operate within the provisions of the law related to the use of pesticides and
operations of equipment.
      3.   When the City approves urban development adjoining agricultural
uses, the urban project shall be required to ensure that its future buyers,
tenants, or occupants recognize that the right of a farm to continue is a City
policy.
   C.   Protective Standards: When urban development is considered adjoining
existing agricultural uses, the City shall not impose regulations that will
interfere with accepted farm operations, including:
      1.   Hours of operations: The City shall not limit the hours of
operations or days of use;
      2.   Noise standards: Noise abatement or modification requirements shall
be conditions of the urban land use and not preexisting agricultural uses.
      3.   Storage of working equipment: No limitations shall be imposed on
equipment that is used in the operations of an existing farm or ranch, except
that equipment that is abandoned or stored shall be kept in a safe and orderly
manner.
   D.   Mediation And Assistance In Determining Compliance: In the event that
any person forwards an argument that an agricultural operation protected by the
provisions of this section is not utilizing accepted agricultural practices in
its operations, the City shall utilize the resources available from the Utah
State University College of Agriculture in determining the acceptable standards
for the practices. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-44-6: KEEPING OF ANIMALS AND FOWL:
The keeping of animals and fowl is permitted on lots by a point count system
and is based on the size of a lot.
   A.   Lots one-half (1/2) acre or larger a total of not more than ten (10)
points is allowed.
   B.   Lots less than one-half (1/2) acre a total of not more than seven (7)
points is allowed.
Figure 10-44-7 ANIMAL POINT EQUIVALENTS
1 cow or bison            3 points
1 sheep or goat           1 points
5 rabbits                 2 points
10 pigeons                2 points
5 chickens or guinea fowl 1 point
1 duck or 1 goose         1 point
1 turkey                  1 point
1 ostrich                 3 points
1 fallow deer             2 points
 
   C.   General Requirements:
      1.   Offspring of mammals shall not be considered in the point count
until they are weaned.
      2.   Animals must have free access to a minimum of forty percent (40%) of
the lot.
      3.   Pigs of any kind and peacocks are not allowed.
      4.   Where permitted under the provisions of this title, animals and fowl
are to be fed and corralled at least fifty feet (50') from any dwelling on the
same or adjacent lot, as measured from the closest point of the corral or
enclosure to the closest point of the dwelling. These distance restrictions
apply to permanent corrals, stables, sheds, barns or other protected or
restricted areas.
      5.   For purposes of grazing down a pasture, animals may be brought in
for a period not to exceed one hundred eighty (180) days per year per piece of
property, and the number of animals permitted to graze may be up to twice the
number allowed on a permanent basis. Grazing includes only the vegetation
native to the pasture and does not permit the supplemental feeding of hay or
grain.
      6.   The keeping of animals and fowl are allowed only by conditions that
they do not constitute a violation of the nuisance or health code.
      7.   If any keeping of animals become a nuisance or cause frequent
complaints, these regulation shall require abatement and removal as prescribed
in Chapter 10-60 Administrative Enforcement.
   D.   Keeping of Pigs for youth project of the 4-H or FFA:
      1.   The keeping of pigs of any species, including pigs, is not permitted
within the corporate limits of Wellsville City, except, pigs may be kept by
youth ages eight (8) - eighteen (18) who are raising such as members of the 4-
H or FFA, Youth must be Wellsville City residents. Pigs may be kept on a
temporary basis on a parcel that is one-half (1/2) acre or larger. For this
purpose, the keeping of pigs shall be limited to the period of March 1st to
August 31st.
      2.   To facilitate compliance with 4-H and FFA rules and protocols a Pig
Oversight Committee of three (3) persons will be formed. Committee members will
be appointed by the Mayor annually. The committee will be responsible to ensure
participant compliance. Non-compliance will be reported to the City Manager.
      3.   The keeping of pigs, for this purpose, is subject to the following
criteria:
         a.   Two (2) pigs allowed on one-half (1/2) acre, three (3) pigs
allowed on % acre and maximum of four (4) pigs are allowed on one (1) acre.
         b.   Pigs must be registered, tagged, and monitored in accordance with
4-H and FFA rules and protocols.
         c.   Proposed owners of pigs must discuss said ownership with all
neighbors sharing property lines. If neighbors do not support the raising of
pigs for this purpose they are to be referred to the City Council for
arbitration.
         d.   Pens, sheds, and shelters containing pigs shall not be kept
within the front yard setback, nor within the side yard setback on corner lots.
         e.   Shade must be provided.
         f.   Clean, fresh water and fresh feed must be readily available.
         g.   Sheltered inside space shall be provided as follows:
            (1)   Up to forty (40) pounds: three (3) square feet per pig.
            (2)   Forty (40) pounds to one hundred (100) pounds: four (4)
square feet per pig.
            (3)   One hundred (100) pounds to one hundred fifty (150) pounds:
six (6) square feet per pig.
            (4)   Exceeding one hundred fifty (150) pounds to market weight:
eight (8) square per pig.
   E.   Adequate outside space must be provided: six (6) square feet to fifteen
(15) square feet per pig determined by size of pig. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-44-7: STRUCTURE RELOCATION, TRAILER CONTAINERS, AND PORTABLE CARPORTS:
   A.   General: No building or structure shall be moved into nor relocated in
the City unless such building or structure and proposed foundation are in
compliance with current building codes, Land Use Regulations, and all other
pertinent City ordinances. The relocation of mobile homes, demountable
structures, manufactured buildings, shipping trailer containers, portable
carports and similar movable structures shall also be subject to the
requirements of this section, except the requirements of this provision shall
not apply to the moving of mobile homes within a mobile home park.
   B.   Permits Required:
      1.   No person, firm or corporation shall move into or relocate within
the City any building or structure without first obtaining a building permit
and a conditional use permit Permits shall be required prior to relocation. A
site investigation will be required whenever the Chief Building Official deems
appropriate.
      2.   Failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter shall
require that the relocated structure or building be relocated to a site allowed
and intended for storage of building materials or it shall be moved outside of
City jurisdiction. In addition, failure to comply with any of the requirements
of this chapter shall be subject to the enforcement provisions of the Municipal
code.
   C.   Investigation:
      1.   Prior to the issuance of a Conditional Use Permit for the relocation
of a building or structure, the Chief Building Official shall investigate any
buildings or structures to be relocated and the property for relocation in
order to determine whether a permit shall be granted. The Planning Commission
shall specify conditions that shall accompany the permit. Conditions may apply
to the vacated site, the moving operation, and the permanent lot.
      2.   Investigation of the building or structure to be relocated shall
include the review of complete site and building plans showing compliance with
all current codes regulating construction. The plans must include complete
structural, electrical, plumbing, and mechanical drawings with a detailed scope
of work to be performed with the relocation. The approved plans shall be
included in the conditions of the building permit.
   D.   Standard Conditions Of Relocation:
      1.   No building or structure shall be moved into nor relocated within
the City that is dangerous or unsafe, or which is infested, dilapidated,
defective, or in such a condition of deterioration or disrepair that its
relocation at the proposed site would be materially detrimental to the property
in the district or area surrounding the proposed site. The Chief Building
Official may place such conditions as deemed necessary to protect the public
health, safety or welfare on any proposed relocation of a building or
structure;
      2.   All footings and foundations on the site to which the building or
structure is to be relocated shall be inspected, approved, and installed prior
to removal of the building or structure from its original site;
      3.   All relocated structures shall be permanently affixed to a new
foundation within forty five (45) days of approval of the foundation. Prior to
the release of the permit, the applicant may request, in writing, an extension
of the 45-day time, subject to approval by the Planning Commission. Ail
relocated structures shall comply with all applicable regulations and
conditions within six months of the date of the permit issuance unless
otherwise approved and extended in writing by the Planning Commission;
      4.   All relocated buildings or structures, whether permanently affixed
to a new foundation or not, and all buildings or structures to be relocated,
shall be maintained in a safe, secure condition. This will require
certification by a licensed structural engineer that the structure is sound
enough to be moved and relocated. The structural engineer must include drawings
and specifications to support structural analysis for moving and relocation at
the proposed site. The chief building Official may require a structural peer
review to substantiate findings of the structural engineer.
      5.   At the proposed site, all landscaping, walkways, masonry work, or
required dedications and improvements for streets and facilities and building
shall be provided in conformity with the standards of the City. At the vacated
site, restoration and improvements shall be required as deemed necessary by the
Chief Building Official.
      6.   A bond or other assurance shall be posted as a guarantee that the
building and grounds will be improved, as stipulated, before the building is
occupied. The bond or other assurance shall include costs for the vacated site
to be restored to a safe and sightly condition. The amount of the bond or other
assurance shall be at least equal to the cost of employing a contractor to make
the improvements to the buildings and premises as required.
      7.   The applicant shall pay all cost incurred by the City for materials,
labor, equipment and machinery, and other incidental costs directly related to
the move. The permit holder shall also be responsible for the cost to repair
all damages caused by the move to streets, bridges, sidewalks, trees and
landscape, utilities, and other property.
   E.   Storage of Relocated Structures or Buildings: Storage of a relocated
structure or at a location other than the vacated or permanent site shall only
occur at a site allowed and intended for storage of building materials. When a
building or structure is relocated at a site allowed and intended for storage
of building materials, the following requirements shall apply:
      1.   Application for, fees for, and construction of any foundation work
or any improvements is not required until such time as the building is ready to
be relocated from the yard. The foundation permit must be released and the
foundation inspected, approved, and installed prior to removal of the building
from the yard; and
      2.   If relocated structures are to be stored for a period exceeding
thirty (30) days, they shall be in compliance with setback requirements as set
forth in the Land Use Regulations.
      3.   All structures shall be securely blocked to maintain structural
integrity and to resist wind forces. In addition, any stored structure shall be
located in a secure fenced yard in compliance with Chapter 10-36.
   F.   Findings Of Fact: A building permit for the relocation of a building or
structure granted to the applicant shall be substantiated by the finding of
Section
10-49-5. The following additional findings shall be determined:
      1.   The building or structure will have no appreciable detrimental
effect on the living environment and property values in the area into which the
structure is to be moved;
      2.   The building or structure is in conformity with the quality of
buildings existing in the area of the proposed site.
   G.   Existing Relocated Structures: Buildings or structures that have been
removed from the original location and that have not been relocated to a
permanent site on a permanent foundation prior to the adoption of this
ordinance shall comply with the regulations of this chapter within forty five
(45) days. Failure to comply with the requirements of this section may result
in additional fees being levied or initiation of enforcement procedures
provided in the Municipal Code. Once application has been made for a
conditional use permit, the Planning Commission may grant a one-time, six (6)
month extension of time when the following findings can be substantiated:
      1.   The proponent's initiation of relocation and permitting activities
is limited by the City or other public agency which has not taken place or was
delayed, resulting in a time delay beyond the permit holder's control.
      2.   The proponent has made a good faith effort to initiate the project
by systematically completing pre-relocation conditions to the satisfaction of
the responsible agency or department.
      3.   Circumstances, other than approval of financing, beyond the control
of the permit holder has prevented initiation of the project.
   H.   License - Required: It is unlawful to engage in the business of house
moving, raising, or shoring without first having obtained a business license
therefore.
   I.   Requirements For Shipping Containers And Trailers: Steel shipping
containers, ocean shipping containers and trailers designed to be towed by
combination vehicles or a truck shall not be located within the City unless
they meet the following standards:
      1.   All Zoning Districts: In all zoning districts within the City,
shipping containers and trailers shall meet the following requirements:
         a.   Not to exceed two hundred (200) square feet;
         b.   Meet all requirements for accessory uses and structures;
         c.   Review and approval by the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission may require a public hearing;
         d.   Obtain a building permit if electrical or other city services are
required;
         e.   Not allowed as a dwelling.
      2.   Commercial and Industrial Zones: In commercial and industrial zones
shipping containers and trailers that exceed two hundred (200) square feet,
shall meet the following requirements:
         a.   Obtain a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) from the Planning
Commission requiring a public hearing and notification of property owners
within three hundred (300) feet.
         b.   Meet requirements as an accessory use and structure;
         c.   Obtain a building permit if electrical or other city services are
required;
         d.   Not allowed as a dwelling.
   J.   Portable Carports: Moveable carports that are purchased in kits and
composed of a metal frame and fabric or metal cover shall meet the following
requirements;
      1.   If the structure is less than two hundred (200) square feet a
carport permit must be obtained from the Planning Commission.
      2.   located behind the rear plane of the residential structure. Not
allowed within the front yard or side yard of the primary residential
structure;
      3.   Anchored to meet manufacturer's instructions;
      4.   The roof and structure shall be maintained in a safe and aesthetic
condition;
      5.   Carport larger than two hundred (200) square feet must meet
requirements of the currently adopted building code and obtain a building
permit and required inspections. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-44-8: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
A manufactured home may be approved as a permanent dwelling; provided, that:
   A.   Minimum Width: The manufactured home shall be a minimum of twenty feet
(20') wide.
   B.   Date Of Manufacture: The manufactured home was manufactured after June
1976, and is stamped by HUD (S-5402-6) and contains the state insignia of
approval.
   C.   Permits Obtained: A Conditional Use Permit and a building permits is
required to assure that site preparation, foundations, installation, roof
loads, etc., meet the appropriate codes.
   D.   Recorded As Real Estate: The manufactured home is recorded with the
county recorder as being "permanently affixed" to real estate.
   E.   Development Standards: The manufactured home meets the following
development standards:
      1.   It has exterior siding which extends to a permanent continuous
foundation. The siding shall consist of a conventional exterior material and
shall be finished before occupancy.
      2.   It has a shingled, pitched gable roof.
      3.   It has improved permanent entrances and exits which are installed
according to the adopted building codes.
      4.   It does not violate any deed restrictions in the area where the unit
is to be located.
   F.   Board Of Health Requirements: The manufactured home meets the
requirements of the state board of health.
   G.   Zoning Requirements: The manufactured home meets the appropriate zoning
requirements.
   H.   Changes Require Building Permit: Any additions, enlargements or
remodels must receive building permits to assure that all minimum adopted
standards are being met.
   I.   Manufactured homes must meet all requirements of the currently adopted
International Building Code and state building code amendments.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-44-9: AG-TOURISM:
10-44-9-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of Ag-Tourism is to support agriculture within the
City of Wellsville. The city desires to foster economically feasible land use
alternatives for local, enterprising agriculture operators committed to
providing local agricultural products, artisan goods, education, and rural
experiences for the public.
   B.   Wellsville seeks, primarily, to promote the preservation of agriculture
by aiding operations in generating supplementary farm income through innovation
and entrepreneurship. Keeping agriculture viable is a high priority.
Agricultural production shall be the primary use of the land and shall not
become secondary to Ag-Tourism. This ordinance seeks to:
      1.   Support a sustainable agricultural environment.
      2.   Develop agri-business, ag-tourism, farm-to-market, farm-to-table,
and related strategies and objectives.
      3.   Allow an environment for agricultural, and artisan goods that
benefit both community and commerce, including agricultural involved
experience, education, and outreach.
      4.   Protect the health, safety, and welfare of those who operate and
those who attended ag-tourism venues.
   C.   This section is not intended to regulate a farmer for the production
and sale of farm products as traditionally practiced by growing, harvesting,
taking the product to market, feeding what is produced, or storing the product
for future use or sale.
   D.   The City has authority and obligation to regulate safety whenever a
farm attracts groups of people, vehicles, or whenever events concentrate people
requiring sanitary facilities, access to public roads, exiting safety,
emergency access, avoidance of hazards, and fire safety.
(Ord. 2023-08, 11-1-2023)
10-44-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this Chapter:
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of soil, growing of produce or crops, or raising or
keeping of domestic animals that is consistent with the R0S1, RAC5, CG, or OSC
zoning districts where the property is located.
AGRI-BUSINESS: The use of land to generate revenue as an agricultural
operation, the production of food and artisan goods for retail, wholesale, or
commercial use, and is inclusive of ag-tourism, farm-to-market, and farm-to-
table.
AG-TOURISM: The public visiting a working farm, agricultural and/or
horticultural operation for enjoyment, education, or involvement in the
activities of the farm or operation.
ARTISAN: A worker in a skilled trade, especially one that involves making food,
drinks, crafts, or consumer products made by hand in a traditional way using
high quality ingredients that are produced on the premises or locally.
ARTISAN GOODS: Products that are produced by artisans, either completely by
hand or with the help of hand-tools or even mechanical means, as long as the
direct manual contribution of the artisan remains the most substantial
component of the finished product.
ENTERTAINMENT USES: Activities and structures that attract people to events or
shows seasonally or periodically that are generally of a spectator nature.
Entertainment uses can be outdoors and/or indoors.
RECREATIONAL USES: Activities and structures that are participatory in nature
where guests are involved or may be observers. Recreational uses are in indoors
and/or outdoors and correspond to the farming season.
(Ord. 2023-08, 11-1-2023)
10-44-9-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This Chapter applies to properties in the R0S1, RAC5, CG, or OSC,
Zones. The uses and standards in this chapter supplement and are in addition to
those of the ROS1, RAC5, CG, OSC, Zones. It shall be the responsibility of the
property owner and/or operator to understand and comply with all applicable
codes. If a conditional use permit is required, per the permitted use table in
10-44-9-060, the conditional use permit application must be completed and
submitted to the city for review and receive approval by the Planning
Commission before engaging in any Ag-tourism.
   B.   All Ag-tourism and agri-business operations, whether the use is
permitted or conditional shall require a business license. All operations shall
obtain a business license approved and issued by the City before engaging in
business.
   C.   This Chapter shall not apply to agriculture producers who use or sell
farm, livestock, hay, seedling plants, garden, or other agricultural produce,
if sold during the harvest season by the producer, an employee of the producer,
or by a member of the producers immediate family. In addition, this chapter
shall not apply to agriculture producers who store farm products for sale after
the harvest season.
   D.   Any Ag-Tourism business selling admission, products, or services that
are defined by the Utah Tax Commission, as taxable for sale or use tax, shall
collect and pay sales taxes or use taxes, unless the business obtains a Sales
Tax Exception Certificate from the Utah Tax Commission.
(Ord. 2023-08, 11-1-2023)
10-44-9-4: REQUIRED STANDARDS:
   A.   Applicability. Any parcel of land that is a viable and active farm may
be eligible as an Ag-tourism business if the primary use of the parcel is
agriculture within the ROS1, RAC5, CG, or OSC Zones.
   B.   Agriculture Primary. When agriculture is the primary use in an ROS1,
RAC5, CG or OSC Zone, Ag-tourism uses are complementary and accessory to the
primary agriculture use. Whenever there is an occupied residential dwelling on
the property, agriculture shall not be considered the primary use, except where
the size of the parcel exceeds 1 acre and the majority of the land area is in
active agricultural production.
   C.   Application. All Ag-tourism applications shall be accompanied by a
concise narrative describing the farm, agriculture operation, and the overall
vision for the proposed Ag-tourism business. The narrative shall include:
      1.   Agriculture and farm history.
      2.   A description or plan for the general maintenance of its
agricultural product(s) and proposals for the following:
         a.   Proposed Ag-tourism uses, including any non-agriculturally
related products, uses, or activities.
         b.   Agriculturally related and non-agriculturally related types of
facilities and equipment.
         c.   Anticipated number of daily patrons and employees showing peak
times and numbers attending.
         d.   Written evidence from the Fire Marshal that fire safety, EMS
issues have been evaluated and concerns have been addressed. If additional
concerns are described by the fire marshal those issues shall become conditions
of approval. Any structures or uses that have not been approved previously,
shall be reviewed and approved by the Fire Marshal, including any entertainment
or recreational uses that are new or that are proposed to be modified from
previous approvals.
         e.   Written evidence shall be provided showing that access, from any
state highway, will be permitted for the proposed ag-tourism operations.
         f.   Maximum number of vehicles to be parked on the property at peaks
times and during average attendance, Parking areas shall be shown on the site
plan.
         g.   The proposed season of use.
         h.   A statement explaining the desired operation hours.
         i.   A detailed description of the nature of entertainment or
recreational uses, facilities, and structures. Sufficient details shall be
shown in the form of plans, narratives, and visual representations that allow
the Planning Commission to understand how the proposal is built, maintained,
and used by guests.
   D.   Site Plan. A site plan review is required for newly permitted large
farms (5 acres & larger) for ag-tourism uses, conditional uses, and new
construction. The site plan shall be drawn to engineer’s scale. The site plan
shall contain the following:
      1.   Existing buildings, structures and proposed new construction of
buildings and facilities intended for Ag-tourism purposes.
      2.   New construction shall comply with requirements of the City Code for
accessory buildings. Required setbacks shall be shown on the site plan.
      3.   Front yard setbacks for permanent ag-tourism facilities and uses
fronting on Highway 89/91 are required to be one hundred and fifty (150) feet.
Front yard setbacks in all other locations shall be thirty (30) feet. Agi-
tourism permanent structures and parking shall not be located within the front
yard setback.
      4.   Proximity of ag-tourism operations to adjacent properties, existing
buildings, and uses shall be considered in approving the site plan.
      5.   All sewage disposal facility location(s).
      6.   An Ag-tourism operation may consist of multiple adjacent properties.
All properties shall be considered in aggregate.
      7.   Existing parking, proposed new parking, and over-flow parking shall
be shown on the site plan explaining the type of surface material for interior
roads or proposed parking.
   E.   Production. An Ag-tourism use shall, with exception of the winter
season, actively produce an agricultural product for sale or use by the farmer.
In the event, that the Ag-tourism use and facilities become unsafe or
unsightly, the right to operate an Ag-tourism use under this Chapter may be
revoked, by the Planning Commission.
   F.   Access. Access to the property from a city street shall be approved by
the City Engineer. Access from any state highway shall be permitted by the Utah
Department of Transportation.
   G.   Parking. All uses shall have adequate off-street parking. The owner
shall obtain an alternative parking permit (
10-38-5) which shall become a condition of approval. No on-street parking shall
be allowed. Parking surfaces shall be well maintained to allow emergency
access.
   H.   Permanent Buildings. Permanent buildings and structures that are used
exclusively for agricultural purposes are allowed visitors to be educated about
or to participate in the activities that occur within the farm building. New
farm buildings shall be permitted for the purposes of farming operations.
Whenever permanent buildings or portions of buildings are used for group
gatherings, the building shall meet the requirements for Group Occupancy A as
defined by the most current adopted building code. Group A occupancy includes
the use of a building or structure, or a portion thereof, for the gathering of
persons for purposes such as civic, social, religious functions, recreation,
food or drink consumption, or awaiting transportation. Group occupancy limits
shall be established by the fire marshall and shall be clearly posted by the
owner/operator.
   I.   Sanitary Sewer Disposal. Permanent sanitary sewer facilities are
required if located within three hundred (300) feet of an existing city sewer
line unless specifically waived by the City Council. On-site sewage disposal
may be approved at the discretion of the City Council. On-site sewage disposal
shall conform to requirements of the Bear River Health Department. If temporary
sanitary facilities are found necessary, they shall be incorporated into the
design of the Ag-tourism operation and completely screened from view from
public streets and adjacent property.
   J.   Uses. Agriculture shall be is maintained as the primary use of the
property, unless a residential use is permitted and has been established as the
primary use.
   K.   Access. Access for fire and EMS vehicles shall be provided to all
venues of the ag-tourism operation and shall be independent of parking lot(s).
The Fire Marshall shall inspect and provide a letter that emergency access is
adequate.
   L.   Entertainment And Recreational Uses. Proposed new or proposed modified
entertainment and/or recreational uses, facilities, or structures shall be
reviewed as specified in 10-49 for a Conditional Use Permit which shall be
processed in parallel with these Ag-Tourism procedures. The Planning Commission
shall base conditions on the standards of 10-49 and may require recommendations
from the Fire Marshal, the City Engineer, the Building Inspector, or other
expert analysis.
   M.   Signs. Signs shall obtain one sign permit to Include all signs for the
season prior to the beginning of each season as provided in 10-40, Sign permits
require administrative staff approval.
   N.   Signs - Safety. Signage stating the safe and unsafe uses of farm
property shall be posted at entrances to the site, buildings accessible to
visitors, and ag-tourism venues.
   O.   Secure Site. Site facilities and grounds shall be secured, and
temporary signs removed at the end of the operational season.
   P.   Hours Of Operation. Ag-tourism uses are limited to 6:00 A.M. and 10:00
P.M., except where hours may be extended as permitted as a condition of
approval by the Planning Commission.
   Q.   Development Agreement. Property owners and the city have the option to
enter into a development agreement but shall not be required. Participation in
a development agreement is voluntary for all parties. The development agreement
may be annual or continual as agreed upon. A development agreement is a
voluntary contract between the City of Wellsville and a person who owns or
controls property within the city, detailing the obligations of both parties
and specifying the standards and conditions that will govern development of the
property. A development agreement can benefit all parties and can foster
compromise or contributions to improve a development.
(Ord. 2023-08, 11-1-2023)
10-44-9-5: FARM CLASSIFICATION:
   The following establishes the classification for farm operations based on
acreage:
   A.   Small Farm. Includes an agriculturally productive property consisting
of lot sizes one (1) to five (5) acres.
   B.   Large Farm. Includes an agriculturally productive property consisting
of lot sizes greater than (5) acres.
(Ord. 2023-08, 11-1-2023)
10-44-9-6: PERMITTED USE TABLE:
   The following uses are determined desirable in conjunction with primary
agriculture operation. The uses in this Section may be subject to other
requirements beyond those imposed by this Chapter. “P” denotes a permitted use,
“C” denotes a conditional use in the ROS1, RAC5, CG, OSC, Zones.
Use / Activity Small Farm Large Farm
Use / Activity                                     Small Farm Large Farm
Agricultural Demonstrations or Educational Classes P          P
Artisan Goods Production                           P          P
Festival Related to Agribusiness                   C          C
Community Garden / Rent-a-row                      P          P
Corn Maze                                          NONE       C
Herb Garden                                        P          P
Market for On-site Produce                         P          P
Market for Multi Farmers / Off-site Products       None       C
Nursery or Greenhouse                              P          P
Passenger Rides (tractor, sleigh, wagon, etc.)     None       P
Petting Farm or Zoo                                none       C
Photography                                        P          P
Pumpkin Patch or U-Pick Operation                  P          P
Entertainment or Recreational Uses                 C          C
Any Other Approved Agribusiness Use                C          C
 
(Ord. 2023-08, 11-1-2023)
10-44-9-7: PERMITTING PROCEDURES:
   The process to obtain clearance to apply for a business license shall be as
follows:
 
                        Small Farm              Large Farm
                         (Less than 5 ac.)       (5 acres +)
Permitted Uses (P) (from Application Reviewed by Reviewed by Planning
table 10-44-9-060)       Staff                   Commission - no public
                                                 hearing
Conditional Uses (C).    Conditional Use Permit  Conditional Use Permit (10-
(from table 10-44-9-060) (10-49) Public Hearing  49) Public Hearing
 
(Ord. 2023-08, 11-1-2023)
10-44-9-8: AG-VENDORS:
   A.   Ag-Vendors Defined: An Ag-Vendor is an invited guest of a property
owner holding a valid business license for Ag-Tourism. An Ag-Vendor(s) may
provide for sale to the public, local agricultural products, food,
entertainment, and recreation services that support education, and rural
experiences for the public and as otherwise specified in
10-44-9.
   B.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to operate as an ag- vendor
without first obtaining a valid city business license or a temporary ag-vendor
license.
   C.   License Required; Display: It shall be unlawful for any person to
conduct business as an ag-vendor, except as exempted in this article, without
first securing a license for such business. The license shall be displayed in a
visible location with the vendor operations.
   D.   Exemptions: Agricultural producers who sell only fruits and vegetables
produced from their own property, and sold on the producer’s property are
exempt from licensing or the payment of license fees under this article.
   E.   Procedure: A registry shall be posted at the city offices. Applicants
may register and obtain a temporary ag-vendor license upon completing necessary
paperwork. If the ag- vendor plans to operate in the city, for the season, a
business license shall be required.
   F.   Unlawful Acts: It shall be unlawful for an exempt vendor to sell,
produce, or grow other than on the exempt vendor’s property, or to sell any
merchandise other than fruits and vegetables at an exempt location.
(Ord. 2023-08, 11-1-2023)
CHAPTER 45
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
SECTION:
10-45-1: Purpose
10-45-2: Applicability
10-45-3: Permits Required
10-45-4: Applications
10-45-5: Design Requirements
10-45-6: Location On Existing Towers And Poles
10-45-7: Roof-Mounted Antennas
10-45-8: Wall Mounted Facilities
10-45-9: Monopoles And Antennas
10-45-10: Historic District
10-45-11: Legally Existing Nonconformities
10-45-12: Abandonment
10-45-13: Prohibited Facilities
10-45-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect Wellsville's aesthetic resources and
community character by establishing development regulations for wireless
telecommunication facilities (hereafter "facilities") to assure their
compatibility with adjoining uses. The location and design of
telecommunications facilities have the potential to have long-term negative
effects on surrounding properties and neighborhoods.
The intent of the following regulations is to reduce those effects by locating
wireless telecommunications facilities where they are least visible from public
streets and public areas and to the best extent possible, provide screening
from adjacent property owners. Antennas mounted on existing structures are
preferred over new monopoles because they are more easily hidden or are
generally less conspicuous when not completely hidden. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-45-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies to both commercial and private wireless telecommunication
facilities, such as, but not limited to, "cellular" or PCS (personal
communications system) communications and paging facilities or others as
defined in Chapter 10-62. This chapter does not apply to public safety, amateur
radio, satellite, or cable television communications facilities, although they
may be regulated by other city ordinances and policies. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-45-3: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   A design review permit is required for alt new or expanding wireless
telecommunications facilities. The design review permit shall be issued in
accordance with the City's standard design review permit approval process
described in Chapter 10-50. The City shall process all applications within a
reasonable time and shall not unreasonably discriminate among providers of
functionally equivalent services.
   B.   A design review permit may not be required if the Planning Commission
finds that the proposed changes will not result in a significant character
change in the appearance of a structure from what currently exists. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
10-45-4: APPLICATIONS:
In addition to the standard items to be included with the design review
application, the applicant shall submit the following;
   A.   Certification of compliance with FCC Parts 24 and 27 regarding RF
(radio frequency) hazards and safety, and other FCC provisions as applicable.
   B.   A visual analysis, to include photo simulations, field mock up,
computer enhanced graphics or other techniques, which identify the negative
visual effects of the proposed facility on surrounding properties. The analysis
shall include the following as required by the Design Review Committee:
      1.   Show views of the facility from public areas (streets, parks, etc.);
and
      2.   Show views from private residences; and
      3.   Show the appearance of the facility from at least three locations
within a three-block radius. One view shall be from a point on the nearest
public right-of-way from which the facility is most visible. Other views shall
be from locations where the facility would be most visible.
The Design Review Committee or the Planning Commission may ask for additional
simulations if it feels that they are necessary to better understand the
proposed facility's effect on the surrounding neighborhood. All costs
associated with this requirement are to be borne by the applicant. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
10-45-5: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
In order to approve a design review permit, the Design Review Committee shall
find that the proposed facility employs stealth design. In making the decision,
the Design Review Committee shall consider the criteria below and any special
circumstances that may apply to the proposed site. Because of differing
circumstances specific to each site, a facility that is considered to be
stealth in one location may not be considered to be stealth in a different
location.
   A.   "Stealth design" is required for all facilities regulated by this
chapter. To the extent reasonably feasible, the applicant shall employ stealth
design so as to mitigate and/or camouflage negative visual effects. Stealth
design ensures that facilities will be compatible with the natural or built
setting and that the facilities will be concealed or camouflaged. Methods of
stealth designs include:
      1.   Blending the facility with the architecture of the existing
structure upon which the facility will be mounted;
      2.   Blending the facility with and/or take advantage of existing
vegetation and/or site features;
      3.   Using color schemes that make the facility less noticeable;
      4.   Using church steeples, clock towers, bell towers, false penthouses
or other similar "mimic" structures to conceal antennas and associated
structures and equipment. Such "mimic" structures shall have a contextual
relationship to the adjacent area. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-45-6: LOCATION ON EXISTING TOWERS AND POLES:
Location on existing towers is both permitted and encouraged in order to
discourage the proliferation of wireless telecommunications facilities.
   A.   Location On Existing Towers And Poles:
      1.   The width of antennas and antenna mounting structures placed on the
top of an existing tower or pole shall not exceed the width of the pole at its
highest point.
      2.   Antennas and their supporting structure mounted to the sides of an
existing tower or pole shall be as slim in profile as possible. In no case
shall the antennas and supporting structures extend more than one foot beyond
the tower or pole.
      3.   The height of the antenna and its supporting structures may not
exceed five feet (5') above the height of the tower or pole.
      4.   In addition to the above standards, facilities shall comply with
Section
10-45-5.
   B.   Co-location On Existing Monopoles:
      1.   The maximum height of a monopole with antennas and antenna support
structures may be increased for co-location of a second antenna on an existing
monopole if the new height of the monopole and antenna will not exceed twenty
feet (20') above the maximum height for structures for the zone in which it is
placed,
      2.   Antennas and supporting structures mounted to the sides of a
monopole shall be as slim in profile as possible. In no case shall the antennas
and supporting structures extend more than one foot (1') beyond the pole in any
direction.
      3.   In addition to the above standards, facilities shall comply with
Section
10-45-5.
   C.   Private radio antennas shall be limited to one antenna per lot in all
residential zones when occupied by a dwelling. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-45-7: ROOF-MOUNTED ANTENNAS:
   A.   Roof-mounted antennas, placed on a flat roof, may extend up to ten feet
above the roof line of the existing structure or up to ten feet (10') above
existing equipment structures or penthouses, provided that the antenna is set
back from the edge(s) of the roof a minimum distance equal to or greater than
double the height of the antenna from the roof line to the top of the antenna.
The Design Review Committee may reduce the requird setback if practical
difficulties are demonstrated by the proponent and upon a finding by the Design
Review Committee that a reduced setback would preserve the character of the
neighborhood.
   B.   Roof-mounted facilities, placed on a pitched roof, may extend a maximum
of five feet above the roofline of the existing structure only upon a finding
by the Design Review Committee that the proposed facility preserves the
character of the neighborhood by meeting the highest standard of stealth
design.
   C.   In addition to the above standards, roof mounted facilities shall
comply with Section
10-45-5. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-45-8: WALL MOUNTED FACILITIES:
   A.   Wall mounted facilities shall not extend above the roofline of the
building.
   B.   Wall mounted facilities shall not extend more than two feet (2')
horizontally from the face of the building.
   C.   The total area for all wall mounted facilities on any one facade of a
building shall not exceed five percent (5%) of that facade's area.
   D.   In addition to the above standards, wall mounted facilities shall
comply with Section
10-45-5. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-45-9: MONOPOLES WITH ANTENNAS:
   A.   Design:
      1.   The height of a monopole with antennas and antenna support
structures shall be limited to ten feet (10') above the maximum height for
structures stated in Section
10-18-1, for the zone in which it is placed or ten feet (10') above the highest
building within three hundred feet (300') of the monopole, whichever is higher.
      2.   The height of a monopole shall be measured from the average finished
grade of the site within a fifty-foot (50') radius.
      3.   The width of antennas and antenna mounting structures placed on the
top of a monopole shall not exceed the width of the monopole at its highest
point.
      4.   In addition to the above standards, monopoles shall comply with
Section
10-45-5.
   B.   Siting:
      1.   Monopoles are permitted only in the Commercial Service (CS) and
Industrial Park (IP) zones.
      2.   Monopoles shall be set back from property lines adjacent to all
public rights-of-way at least two feet (2') for every one foot (1') of pole and
antenna height. The Design Review Committee may reduce the required setback in
the design review process if practical difficulties are demonstrated by the
proponent and upon a finding by the Design Review Committee that a reduced
setback would adequately preserve the character of the neighborhood.
      3.   Monopoles shall be set back a minimum of two feet (2') for every one
foot (1‘) of pole height from the nearest property line of any property in an
adjacent residential zone.
      4.   Any associated mechanical or electrical equipment shall be
completely screened from view from public rights-of-way and adjacent
properties, with a solid screen and landscaping.
      5.   Antennas mounted to the sides of a monopole may only be allowed in
the case of a co-location in accordance with Section
10-45-6. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-45-10: HISTORIC DISTRICT:
Prior to considering a design review permit application for any facility within
a Historic District, the application shall be reviewed by the Historic
Preservation Committee for a Certificate of Appropriateness. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019)
10-45-11: LEGALLY EXISTING NONCONFORMITIES:
Legally existing nonconforming wireless telecommunications facilities,
equipment, and antennas are governed by Chapter 10-59. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-45-12: ABANDONMENT:
   A.   The applicant, or the applicant's successor(s) and/or assign(s) shall
be responsible for the removal of unused wireless telecommunications facilities
within ninety (90) days of abandonment of use. If such facility is not removed
by the property owner, then the City may employ all legal measures to remove
the facility. See Section
10-60-28 through
10-60-38.
   B.   In the event of co-location on a monopole, if a secondary facility is
abandoned the owner of the primary facility shall have thirty (30) days, from
the date the owner of the secondary facility files with the FCC the required
"Notice to Abandon" its facility, to reduce the height of the monopole to its
previous or originally approved height. The City shall receive a copy of the
"Notice to Abandon" filed with the FCC. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-45-13: PROHIBITED FACILITIES:
No telecommunication antennas or facilities other than those specifically
allowed in this chapter shall be permitted within the City except as otherwise
required by applicable state or federal law. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
ARTICLE VI. ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 46
PERMIT AUTHORITY
SECTION:
10-46-1: Purpose
10-46-2: Application Review Standards
10-46-3: Permit Required Before Proceeding
10-46-4: Creation Of Building Site
10-46-5: Public Dedications
10-46-1: PURPOSE:
Permit review procedures are intended to provide an opportunity for a property
owner to learn and understand the development standards and regulations of the
City prior to initiating development of a site. The various permits are
intended to provide the City with an opportunity to work with a property owner
in ensuring safe development that meets City standards. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-46-2: APPLICATION REVIEW STANDARDS:
Standards for approving, conditionally approving or denying a project are
contained within the specific provisions of this Article. Table 10-46-
2 identifies the decisionmakers and appeals boards for all project and
application types.
   Table 10-46-2: Application Decision-Makers and Appeals Boards
Project Type Chapter Applications Hear By:
Project Type                        Chapter Applications Hear By:
Subdivisions                        10-11   Planning Commission and City
                                            Council
Boundary Line Adjustment            10-48   Planning Commission
Design Review, Single Family57      10-50   Planning Commission or Residential
                                            Design Review Committee
Design Review, all other projects   10-50   Planning Commission or Design
                                            Review Committee
Conditional Use Permit              10-49   Planning Commission
Variances                           10-53   Board of Adjustment
Amendments to the Land Use          10-51   Planning Commission
Regulations                                 City Council
Amendments to the Official Zoning   10-51   Planning Commission2
Map                                         City Council
Amendments to the General Plan      10-52   Planning Commission City Council
Appeals of Staff Decisions          10-57   Board of Adjustment
Appeals of Staff’s General Plan   10-57   City Council
Interpretations
Appeals of Boundary Line Adjustment 10-57   City Council
Appeals of Design Review, Use
Permits, or Planning Commission     10-57   City Council
Decision
Appeals of Amendments to the Land
Use Regulations, Official Zoning
Map, General Plan, Variances,       10-57   City Council
Subdivisions or actions of the
Board of Adjustments
 
57   Residences for which any portion of the building envelop is higher than
5,000" elevation, unless as otherwise indicated on the subdivision plat map.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-46-3: PERMIT REQUIRED BEFORE PROCEEDING:
The construction, alteration, repair, removal, use or occupancy of any site
improvements, site development, structure, or any part thereof shall not
commence or proceed until the issuance of an appropriate permit(s).
   A.   Complete Applications: Complete permit applications must be submitted
to review by City staff prior to entering an application on a public meeting
agenda. Permits may be issued following a review to ensure that the proposed
project is in compliance with the Wellsville City Code.
   B.   Permits Issued Only For Complying Projects: Permits shall be issued
only upon the approval of a site plan meeting the requirements of the City and
the Uniform Building Code. The Building Inspector, in association with the City
Engineer, and the Planning Commission, shall prepare a list of the requirements
for site plan submittal. In order to obtain a permit, the project must comply
with all applicable standards, specifications, and code requirements.
   C.   Site Plan Review Required:
      1.   All site plans shall be reviewed and signed by the City Manager or
his designee. The City Manager may require additional signatures from other
city departments or staff.
      2.   Any department may require additional studies or plans as necessary
to review or address site specific conditions.
      3.   Site plans for multiple family dwellings, all commercial, all
industrial, and nonresidential development shall be prepared by a professional
architect, landscape architect, or engineer licensed within the State of Utah.
Site plans shall be based upon a record survey prepared by a land surveyor,
licensed in the State of Utah, that shows accurate dimensions, the location of
all monuments, existing buildings, location of utility structures and lines,
and all easements and rights-of-way.
   D.   Compliance With Discretionary Conditions Required Prior To Building
Permit: When a project has been before the Planning Commission, Design Review
Committee, Historic Preservation Committee (if existing) Board of Adjustment,
or the City Council, no permits shall be issued until the Planning Commission
or designee has confirmed that the project is in compliance with all
appropriate conditions.
   E.   Permit Void If Issued In Conflict With Title: Should any permit or
license be issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter, such permit
or license shall be voidable.
   F.   Permit Void If Issued On The Basis Of Inaccurate Information: Should
any permit, license, or approval be granted on the basis of inaccurate,
incomplete, or fraudulent information, the permit shall be voidable. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-46-4: CREATION OF BUILDING SITE:
   A.   Lots Shall Be Legally Existing: Permits for the construction,
alteration, use or occupancy of any building, structure or part thereof upon
any tract or plot shall be issued only after a building site or lot has been
created in compliance with the provisions of the Wellsville City Code:
      1.   The record lot was created in full compliance with the provisions of
subdivision and zoning regulations within the Wellsville City Code and Utah
law.
      2.   The lot is all or part of a preliminary or final plat map or site
plan officially approved by the City. The site has been or is being developed
in conformance with City requirements for all utility and drainage easements,
alleys, streets, and other public improvements necessary to meet the normal
requirements for platting including the designation of building areas,
dedication of easements, alleys, streets, and other property required to be
dedicated.
   B.   Certificate Of Occupancy, Approval To Use Or Occupancy: No land shall
be used or occupied, no building shall be used or changed in use, until a
Certificate of Occupancy has been issued by the Building Inspector.
Certificates of Occupancy may be issued only after the Planning Commission or
designee has issued a clearance indicating that the permit holder has complied
with all appropriate conditions imposed on the project. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-46-5: PUBLIC DEDICATIONS:
The owner may be required to dedicate streets, utility easements or rights-of-
way, parklands, trail easements, water rights, or other lands for public
purposes as may be defined in the Wellsville City Code or the City's General
Plan and other master plan documents. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 47
RESERVED
 
CHAPTER 48
BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENTS, VACATIONS, AND AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-48-1: Purpose
10-48-2: Standing To Apply
10-48-3: City Manager Responsibilities
10-48-4: Public Hearing Required
10-48-5: Recordation Of Approved Boundary Line Adjustment
10-48-6: Plat Map May Be Required
10-48-7: Vacating Or Amendment A Subdivision Plat or Public Right-Of-Way
10-48-8: Expiration
10-48-1: PURPOSE:
Boundary line adjustment are intended to provide a streamlined and simplified
method of complying with State law by allowing property owners to adjust lot
lines or combine lots within the limits of this chapter. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-48-2: STANDING TO APPLY:
Any adjoining property owners who submit an application, proposed map, and
proposed legal descriptions for a boundary line adjustment shall have standing
to submit a complete application to the City Manager for a boundary line
adjustment whenever the adjustment involves exchange of title to property. The
City Manager may delegate these responsibilities to the City Engineer. The
Planning Commission is empowered to approve, conditionally approve, or deny
boundary line adjustments if the boundary line adjustment results in an
exchange of title to any parcel involved in the boundary line adjustment.
The Utah Code requires that any boundary line adjustment involving an exchange
of title to property be reviewed and approved. The exchange of title to
property through a boundary line adjustment is subject to the procedures of
review and approval of the municipality, even though it does not create a
subdivision. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-48-3: CITY MANAGER RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Preliminary Review: The City Engineer shall review the application to
ensure that it is complete. Before a hearing shall be scheduled, the City
Manager or City Engineer shall be required to substantiate the following:
      1.   The change in boundary lines does not result in the creation of a
new lot or parcel.
      2.   The proposed change to a lot does not result in the creation of a
lot of size or shape that does not conform with City zoning regulations and
site development standards. If the proposed change is to a legally existing
nonconforming lot, the change may not increase the nonconformity.
      3.   The proposed change to a lot does not result in changing a
conforming structure into a nonconforming structure as a result of setbacks,
proximity to other structures, use, landscaping, or any other site development
requirement.
      4.   The petition to change the boundaries include signatures from
representatives of each lot or parcel affected by the boundary line adjustment,
and any necessary signatures from holders of liens, mortgages, or easements
affected by the boundary line adjustment.
      5.   The intent of the adjustment of boundary line(s) results in an
exchange of title to property.
   B.   Distribution and City Review: After completion of the preliminary
review, the City Manager shall circulate a map of the proposed boundary line
adjustment to the other City departments or departments that may be affected by
the proposal for comments and recommended conditions, if any.
   C.   Failure To Obtain Signatures Of Representatives Of Owners Of Record: If
the City Manager determines that the application does not include signatures
from at least one record owner representing each parcel or lot, the City
Manager shall follow the procedures prescribed in Utah law for considering
action on the proposed boundary line adjustment in Utah Law. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019)
10-48-4: PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED:
The Planning Commission shall hold a duly noticed public hearing in conformance
with requirements of Utah Law. A written staff report as specified in
Chapter 10-55 shall not be required. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-48-5: RECORDATION OF APPROVED BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENT:
Following final approval by the Planning Commission, the property owners shall
submit the executed deeds, any required maps, and other required documentation
to the City Manager along with suitable payment for the cost of recording the
legal descriptions with the County Recorder. The City Recorder shall record the
deeds. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-48-6: PLAT MAP MAY BE REQUIRED:
In conformance with Utah law, if a boundary line adjustment results in the need
for dedication of a public right-of-way or other public dedication, a plat
shall be required. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-48-7: VACATING OR AMENDING A SUBDIVISION PLAT OR PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY:
Other amendments to subdivision plats or vacating public right-of-way shall
follow the provisions set forth in Utah Law. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-48-8: EXPIRATION:
Any boundary line adjustment that has not been presented for recordation to the
City Engineer within ninety (90) days of the date of City Engineer approval
shall be deemed to have expired. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 49
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS (CUP)
SECTION:
10-49-1: Purpose
10-49-2: Standing To Apply
10-49-3: Conditional Use Permits
10-49-4: Procedures, Reports, And Hearings
10-49-5: Planning Commission Action
10-49-6: Reserved
10-49-7: Abandonment Or Vacation Of Use
10-49-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a system for the discretionary
consideration of applications for conditional use permits in order to preserve
and enhance neighborhood character and to protect the public health, safety,
and general welfare. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-49-2: STANDING TO APPLY:
Any property owner or a proponent with the written permission of the property
owner may apply for consideration of a conditional use permit. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
10-49-3: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
All requests for permits in zoning districts which involve uses listed or
otherwise categorized as a conditional use shall be required to apply for
discretionary approval of a conditional use permit in conformance with this
Title prior to the issuance of any building or occupancy permits, business
licenses, or other entitlements. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-49-4: PROCEDURES, REPORTS, AND HEARINGS:
Conditional use permits are processed under the provisions of
Chapter 10-55 and the requirements of this chapter. Applications for
Conditional Use Permits are heard before the Planning Commission. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
10-49-5: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
The Commission may approve or conditionally approve a conditional use permit
only upon substantiating the following findings:
   A.   The maximum density established has not been exceeded, unless a density
bonus has been approved in conformance with General Plan policy and City
ordinance.
   B.   The conditional use permit conforms to the requirements of Title 10 and
Title 11 of the Wellsville City Code as an identified conditional use.
   C.   The use is compatible with surrounding land uses and will not interfere
with the use and enjoyment of adjoining or area properties.
   D.   The streets providing access and other infrastructure to the subject
property have adequate capacities or a suitable level of service for the
conditional use.
   E.   The proposed use is compatible with neighborhood uses and character and
preserves and enhances the character of the neighborhood.
   F.   Access to adjoining streets is designed to be constructed in
conformance with City standards and specifications. Where adjoining streets are
regulated by the Utah Department of Transportation, access to street(s) shall
conform to the requirements of the Cache Access Management Plan.
   G.   The proposed use provides adequate off-street parking in conformance
with this Title.
   H.   The project provides open space and landscaping in conformance with the
General Plan and this Title. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-49-6: RESERVED:
10-49-7: ABANDONMENT OR VACATION OF USE:
Any use for which a conditional use permit was issued pursuant to this Title
shall be deemed to be voided and no longer active or valid if the use for which
the permit was issued is abandoned or vacated for a period of twelve (12)
consecutive months. This provision applies exclusively to conditional use
permits issued by the Planning Commission. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 50
DESIGN REVIEW PERMITS
SECTION:
10-50-1: Purpose
10-50-2: Design Review Committees
10-50-3: Standing To Apply
10-50-4: Design Review Permits
10-50-5: Procedures
10-50-6: Reserved
10-50-7: Design Review
10-50-8: Approval Criteria
10-50-9: Conditions And Modifications
10-50-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of design review is to implement the General Plan, encourage
quality development design, and enhance neighborhood character. The design
review process is intended to ensure conformance to city standards and
encouragement toward superior design while providing some flexibility in
project design. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-50-2: DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEES:
The City Council authorizes the creation of the Design Review Committee which
will be the Planning Commission until such time that the City Council
determines that a separate design review committee.
   A.   The Committee shall review design review applications, including
proposed site layout, building design, grading and drainage, for conformity to
Title 10 and 11.
   B.   The Committee shall follow the notice and meeting requirements of
Section
10-50-7. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-50-3: STANDING TO APPLY:
Any property owner or a proponent with the written permission of the property
owner may apply for consideration of a design review permit, after completing a
concept plan review (Section
10-55-2) and receiving clearance from Planning Commission or Design Review
Committee that the proposed development will meet the intent of the Land Use
Regulations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-50-4: DESIGN REVIEW PERMITS:
   A.   Design Review Permit Required: The following developments require
design review permits:
      1.   Any Development, including single family dwellings located within a
sensitive or critical land area.
      2.   Multifamily residential buildings;
      3.   Subdivisions;
      4.   Commercial development;
      5.   Industrial development;
      6.   Recreation development;
      7.   Public development;
      8.   Freestanding signs.
      9.   Wall art over ten percent (10%) of the first story facade area.
   B.   Design Review Permit Required for certain modifications to uses.
      1.   All remodeling, renovation or additions, including parking and
access, in this section that results in an increase in size by more than twenty
percent (20%) of site area or ten thousand (10,000) square feet, whichever is
less, excluding a single family home;
      2.   Exterior remodeling or renovation that is found by the Planning
Commission to result in an increase in a nonconforming design condition. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-50-5: PROCEDURES:
Design review permits are processed as follows:
   A.   A pre-application meeting with city staff is required prior to
submitting an application for design review. The purpose of the meeting is to
assist applicants in preliminarily identifying code requirements and issues to
be addressed by the proposal.
   B.   An application for design review of single-family dwellings requires
submittal of a building plan set consisting of a plot plan, floor plans, and
elevations. Single family dwellings are only required to obtain a design review
permit if the finished floor elevation exceeds five thousand feet (5,000')
elevation or if required by a Historic Preservation District (if existing).
   C.   An application for design review on projects other than single family
dwellings shall contain, at a minimum: application form(s); applicable fee(s);
an existing conditions plan; site plan; preliminary grading and utilities
plans; building floor plan and elevations; proposed color and materials board
or samples; landscape plan; narrative description of the proposal, including
any proposed variances or adjustments to city standards; and other plans,
exhibits or data as specified by staff during the pre-application meeting.
   D.   Once an application for design review is accepted with required forms,
fees, plans and exhibit by the City Manager or his designee, the City Manager
or his designee shall review it for completeness.
   E.   Once the City Manager or his designee deems an application complete,
the proposal shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019)
10-50-6: RESERVED:
10-50-7: DESIGN REVIEW:
The Planning Commission or Design Review Committee, as applicable, shall be the
reviewing authority for design review applications. Applications shall be
reviewed as follows:
   A.   Public notice shall be given and the proceedings of the Design Review
shall be held after a public hearing as prescribed in the Utah Code.
   B.   Review the application and decide to approve, approve with conditions,
or deny the application based on the criteria in Section
10-50-8. An application for design review shall not be approved unless all of
the criteria in Section
10-50-8 are fulfilled.
   C.   Appeals shall be heard by City Council.
   D.   The Planning Commission minutes shall serve as the administrative
record of proceedings of the Design Review. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-50-8: APPROVAL CRITERIA:
   A design review permit may be approved only upon substantiating the
following findings:
   A.   The maximum allowable density under the applicable zoning district has
not been exceeded, unless a density bonus has been approved for the subject
site in conformance with General Plan policy and City ordinance.
   B.   The design review permit substantially conforms to the requirements of
Titles 10 and 11 of the Wellsville City Code.
   C.   Where an adjustment to a provision of Title 10 and 11 is requested as
part of the design review application, the following criteria shall apply:
      1.   The adjustment is consistent with the purpose and intent of the
zoning district in which the project is located.
      2.   The adjustment is consistent with the purpose of the standard for
which the adjustment is requested;
      3.   Permitted use standards, including conditional use standards, shall
not be adjusted;
      4.   Density standards shall not be adjusted;
      5.   Adjustments to height, bulk, parking, and landscaping (including
setbacks, lot coverage, buffering, parking ratio, and floor area) may be
approved provided that the adjustment does not exceed five percent (5%) of the
base standard;
      6.   Historic district guidelines shall not be adjusted through this
procedure;
   D.   Adjustments to on-site parking and landscaping requirements may be
allowed by the Planning Commission for some commercial and industrial projects
that require areas of yard space for the maneuvering of large vehicles and
equipment.
      1.   Adjustment shall not be made for the following:
         a.   outdoor uses involving vehicular parking for employees or
customers, except as provided in 10-50-8-C5.
         b.   Off-site improvements required by a subdivision approval or
required to access or service the project.
         c.   Landscape improvements required to improve the public right-of-
way.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall make a compelling finding(s) that
substantiates the following:
         a.   The adjustment(s) will allow the adequate function of outdoor
activities
         b.   The adjustment(s) are customary to the layout and design of
similar uses and projects
         c.   The adjustment is not contrary to the purposes of this chapter (
10-50-1).
      3.   Adjustments to on-site parking and landscaping requirements may be,
particularly, justified by the Planning Commission, when the proposed building
substantially screens the outdoor use area from the public roadway and adjacent
properties.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-08, 6-15-2022)
10-50-9: CONDITIONS AND MODIFICATIONS:
Conditions and Modifications: In reviewing an application for a design review
permit, the decision-making body may modify the project or impose conditions
concerning site development, site design, and building design features to
ensure conformance to applicable development and design standards, consistent
with the purpose of this section. The issues that may be reviewed include and
are not limited to:
   A.   Size and location of site, including all property owned by the
proponent;
   B.   Streets and roads in the area;
   C.   Ingress and egress to adjoining existing and proposed public streets.
Where adjoining streets are regulated by the Utah Department of Transportation,
access to street(s) shall conform to the requirements of the Cache Access
Management Plan;
   D.   Location and amount of off-street parking;
   E.   Internal traffic circulation system;
   F.   Pedestrian and vehicular connectivity to adjoining properties;
   G.   Fencing, screening and landscaped separations;
   H.   Building bulk and location;
   I.   Architecture design and detailing;
   J.   Usable open space and set-aside open space;
   K.   Landscaping, screening and/or buffering.
   L.   Signs and lighting;
   M.   Noise, vibration, air pollution, adverse effects of lighting, and other
development factors;
   N.   Setbacks as approved or modified by the Planning Commission from the
site plan in conformance with the provisions of this Title;
   O.   Existing trees, water bodies or other natural features;
   P.   Critical lands and their overlays;
   Q.   Modifications to an approved site plan and/or elevations may be
approved only by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission must find
that the modification substantially conforms to the Design Review Permit, and
it is a change of not more than ten percent (10%) from the approved plan (i.e.,
for any quantitative standard, specification or condition of approval).
   R.   Clearance from the fire department. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 51
AMENDMENTS TO THE LAND USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-51-1: Purpose
10-51-2: Application To Amend
10-51-3: Amendment Procedures
10-51-4: Planning Commission Hearing
10-51-5: Planning Commission Action
10-51-6: City Council Procedure
10-51-7: City Council Hearing
10-51-8: City Council Action
10-51-9: Amendments Processed In Parallel
10-51-1: PURPOSE:
The Land Use Regulations and Zoning Map may be amended from time to time in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter and Utah statutes. These
petitions or applications shall be known as "zoning amendments." (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
10-51-2: APPLICATION TO AMEND:
   A.   Standing To Apply To Change Boundaries of a Zoning District: The
following persons, groups, or officials are permitted to submit an application
for a change in the boundaries of a zoning district:
      1.   The property owner or a group of property owners may apply to change
the boundaries of lots of which each lot proposed for a change is represented
by the signature of at least one owner on record.
      2.   An application to change the boundaries of a zoning district may be
initiated by majority vote of the Planning Commission or the City Council at a
public meeting without either hearing or notice;
      3.   Any person may petition the City Council to initiate an application
to change the boundaries of any zoning district whether or not such petitioners
are the owners of the subject property(ies) proposed for rezoning;
      4.   A request to change the boundaries of any zoning district may be
proposed to the Planning Commission by the City Administration.
   B.   Standing To Apply To Amend The Language Of The Land Use Regulations:
The following persons, groups, or officials are permitted to submit an
application for a change in the text language, graphics, or maps of the Land
Use Regulations:
      1.   Any person may apply to change the language of the Land Use
Regulations by submitting an application and paying appropriate fees;
      2.   An application to change the language of the Land Use Regulations
may be initiated by majority vote of the Planning Commission or the City
Council at a public meeting without either hearing or notice;
      3.   Any person may petition the City Council to initiate an application
to change the language of the Land Use Regulations. The City Council may
require the payment of application fees by the petitioner;
      4.   A request to change the boundaries of any zoning district may be
proposed to the Planning Commission by the City Administration.
   C.   Process To Initiate An Application To Amend The Land Use Regulations:
      1.   A request to initiate a change in district boundaries or the text of
the Land Use Regulations shall be considered by the Planning Commission or the
City Council, depending on which body received the petition, at a public
meeting;
         a.   A public hearing is not required to consider the petition to
initiate an amendment to the maps or text of the Land Use Regulations;
         b.   Mailed notices are not required for the public meeting on a
petition to initiate an amendment;
         c.   Separate newspaper advertising other than normal meeting notices
and agenda availability are not required.
      2.   The Planning Commission or City Council shall consider the petition
only on the basis of whether or not to create an application for the project
that will bring the matter to a public hearing. The Commission and Council
shall not debate the merits of the proposed amendment;
      3.   By majority vote of members present, the Commission or Council may
accept the petition as submitted, amend or modify the petition to encompass
other text changes or include or exclude lands from a district boundary change,
or reject the petition;
      4.   An action to accept a petition or accept a petition with
modifications initiates an application for a zoning amendment and formal public
hearing process and shall not be construed as an endorsement or predisposition
to action on the proposal; (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-51-3: AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application Process: Amendments to the Official Zoning Map or the text
of the Land Use Regulations shall be submitted to the Planning Commission.
Applications initiated by action of the City Council or Planning Commission
shall be prepared by the Planning Commission. Applications are processed in
accordance with this chapter and Utah Law.
   B.   Zoning Actions Are Legislative In Nature: Zoning amendments are
legislative and conditions shall not be imposed. The Planning Commission and
City Council shall be required to find that the site is suitable for the
proposed zoning district and all permitted uses and site development standards
are compatible with the property. The decision makers shall also ensure that
the zoning action is consistent with the intent and the specifics of the
General Plan. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-51-4: PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING:
The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing at which it considers the
staff report, the application of the petitioner, and comments by interested
members of the public or other organizations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-51-5: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
The Commission may recommend that the City Council approve an amendment to the
Official Zoning Map or the text of the Land Use Regulations if it substantiates
the findings in this section. Failure to find facts supporting the petition or
finding facts that are contrary to the petition are grounds for a
recommendation that the Council deny the zoning amendment.
   A.   Findings for Changes of Zoning District Boundaries:
      1.   The location subject property(ies) is compatible with the purpose of
the new district.
      2.   The subject property is suitable for development within the new
zoning district without increasing need for variances or special exceptions.
      3.   The subject property is suitable as a location for all of the
permitted uses within the district.
      4.   The infrastructure providing access and utility services to the
subject property have adequate capacities or a suitable level of service for
the permitted uses within the zoning district.
      5.   The subject property when used for the permitted uses in the
district will not be incompatible with adjoining land uses or the purpose of
the adjoining districts.
      6.   The change to the Land Use Regulations is consistent with the intent
of the General Plan as currently documented.
   B.   Findings For Changes To The Regulations, Standards Or Text Of The Land
Use Regulations: Depending on the nature of the text amendments, the Commission
shall also make findings associated with the proposed changes to the text.
These specifically prepared finding shall encompass the following issues:
      1.   Findings shall, whenever possible, be enumerated or codified within
the proposed amendment in order to provide an understanding of the Commission's
purpose or intentions for the amendment.
      2.   Findings for changes to the regulations, standards or text of the
Land Use Regulations are intended to list or identify the reasons the
Commission is recommending the change. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-51-6: CITY COUNCIL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Planning Commission Recommendation Forwarded to Council: Following a
recommendation by the Commission, the Planning Commission shall forward a copy
of the recommendation to the Council with a written report or summary of the
Commission's action.
   B.   Council Workshop:
      1.   Not more than thirty (30) days after the Commission's
recommendation, the Planning Commission shall request agenda time at a City
Council workshop to provide the Council with information about the proposed
amendment.
      2.   At its workshop, the Council may accept the matter and schedule for
public hearing, or request additional information prior to scheduling the
matter for hearing.
      3.   If a majority of the Council present at the workshop has no
objection, the matter shall be set for public hearing and action at a City
Council meeting of the Council's selection.
      4.   Failure to hold a public hearing within one year of the Commission's
action shall be deemed to be a de facto denial of the application.
   C.   Report To The Council: The Planning Commission shall prepare a
memorandum or written report to the Council with attachments of the Planning
Commission staff report and any other written material submitted at the
Commission hearing. This report shall, at a minimum address the following:
      1.   The range of issues discussed at the Commission hearing that are not
included in the Commission's staff report,
      2.   Any pertinent public testimony or agency comments presented at the
Commission meeting,
      3.   Any other appropriate information with the director's report. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-51-7: CITY COUNCIL HEARING:
The City Council shall hold a public hearing at which it considers the
recommendation of the Planning Commission, the staff report or memorandum, the
application of the petitioners, and comments by interested members of the
public or other organizations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-51-8: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
   A.   Council Action By Ordinance: Following conclusion of the public
hearing, the Council shall take action to enact an ordinance approving the
zoning amendment or adopt a motion to deny the petition.
   B.   Council Findings For Approval: The City Council may approve an
amendment to the Official Zoning Map or the text of the Land Use Regulations
upon substantiating the following findings:
      1.   (For changing district boundaries:) The location subject property
(ies) is compatible with the purpose of the new district.
      2.   (For changing district boundaries:) The subject property is suitable
for development within the new zoning district without increasing need for
variances or special exceptions.
      3.   (For changing district boundaries:) The subject property is suitable
as a location for all of the permitted uses within the district.
      4.   The infrastructure providing access and utility services to the
subject property have adequate capacities or a suitable level of service for
the permitted uses within the zoning district.
      5.   The subject property when used for the permitted uses in the
district will not be incompatible with adjoining land uses or the purpose of
the adjoining districts.
   C.   Findings For Changes To The Regulations, Standards Or Text Of The Land
Use Regulations: Depending on the nature of the text amendments, the Council
shall also make findings associated with the proposed changes to the text.
These specifically prepared finding shall encompass the following issues:
      1.   Findings shall, whenever possible, be enumerated or codified within
the proposed amendment in order to provide an understanding of the Commission's
purpose or intentions for the amendment.
      2.   Findings for changes to the regulations, standards or text of the
Land Use Regulations are intended to list or identify the reasons the
Commission is recommending the change. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-51-9: AMENDMENTS PROCESSED IN PARALLEL:
Amendments to the Land Use Regulations may be processed at the same time with
amendments to the General Plan. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 52
AMENDMENTS TO THE GENERAL PLAN
SECTION:
10-52-1: Purpose
10-52-2: Amendment Procedures
10-52-3: Planning Commission Hearing
10-52-4: Planning Commission Action
10-52-5: City Council Action After Planning Commission Recommendation
10-52-6: City Council Hearing
10-52-7: City Council Action
10-52-8: Amendments Processed In Parallel
10-52-1: PURPOSE:
The General Plan may be amended three (3) times each year in conformance with
the provision of this chapter and Utah statutes. These petitions or
applications shall be known as "General Plan amendments." (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-52-2: AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application Process: Amendments to General Plan maps or the text of the
General Plan shall be submitted to the Planning Commission. Applications
initiated by action of the City Council or Planning Commission shall be
prepared by the Planning Commission. Applications are processed in accordance
with this chapter and Utah Law.
   B.   The General Plan is Legislative in Nature: General Plan amendments are
legislative and conditions shall not be imposed. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-52-3: PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING:
The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing at which it considers the
staff report, the application of the petitioner, and comments by interested
members of the public or other organizations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-52-4: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
The Commission may recommend that the City Council approve an amendment to
General Plan maps or the text of the General Plan if it substantiates the
findings in this section.
   A.   Findings for Changes of General Plan Map Boundaries:
      1.   (For changing maps:) The change in map boundaries is compatible with
the appropriate policies in the General Plan.
      2.   The applicable infrastructure providing access and utility services
to the subject property have adequate capacities or a suitable level of service
for the use of the land affected by the map change.
      3.   The subject property when used for the permitted uses in its base
zoning district will be compatible with General Plan policies.
   B.   Findings for Changes to the Regulations, Standards or Text of the
General Plan Depending on the nature of the text amendments, the Commission
shall also make findings associated with the proposed changes to the text.
These specifically prepared findings shall encompass the following issues:
      1.   Findings shall, whenever possible, be enumerated or codified within
the proposed amendment in order to provide an understanding of the Commission's
purpose or intentions for the amendment.
      2.   Findings for changes to the regulations, standards or text of the
General Plan are intended to list or identify the reasons the Commission is
recommending the change. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-52-5: CITY COUNCIL ACTION AFTER PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
   A.   Planning Commission Recommendation Forwarded to Council: Following a
recommendation by the Commission, the Planning Commission shall forward a copy
of the recommendation to the Council with a written report or summary of the
Commission's action,
   B.   Council Workshop:
      1.   Not more than thirty (30) days after the Commission's
recommendation, the Planning Commission shall request agenda time at a City
Council workshop to provide the Council with information about the proposed
amendment.
      2.   At its workshop, the Council may accept the matter and schedule for
public hearing, request additional information for the public hearing, or
request additional information prior to scheduling the matter for hearing.
      3.   If a majority of the council present at the workshop has no
objection, the matter shall be set for public hearing and action at a City
Council meeting of the Council's selection.
      4.   Failure to hold a public hearing within one (1) year of the
Commission's action shall be deemed to be a de facto denial of the application.
   C.   Report to the Council: The Planning Commission shall prepare a
memorandum or written report to the Council with attachments of the Planning
Commission Staff Report and any other written materials submitted at the
Commission hearing. This report shall, at a minimum address the following:
      1.   The range of issues discussed at the Commission hearing that are not
included in the Commission's staff report,
      2.   Any pertinent public testimony or agency comments presented at the
Commission meeting,
      3.   Any other appropriate information with his report. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
10-52-6: CITY COUNCIL HEARING:
The City Council shall hold a public hearing at which it considers the
recommendation of the Planning Commission, the staff report or memorandum, the
application of the petitioners, and comments by interested members of the
public or other organizations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-52-7: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
   A.   Council Action By Resolution: Following conclusion of the public
hearing, the Council shall take action to adopt a resolution approving the
General Plan amendment or adopt a motion to deny the amendment.
   B.   Council Findings For Approval: The City Council may approve an
amendment to General Plan maps or the text of the General Plan upon
substantiating the following findings:
      1.   (For changing maps:) The change in map boundaries is compatible with
the appropriate policies in the General Plan.
      2.   The applicable infrastructure providing access and utility services
to the subject property have adequate capacities or a suitable level of service
for the use of the land affected by the map change.
      3.   The subject property when used for the permitted uses in its base
zoning district will be compatible with General Plan policies.
   C.   Findings For Changes To The Regulations, Standards or Text of the
General Plan: Depending on the nature of the text amendments, the Council shall
also make findings associated with the proposed changes to the text. These
specifically prepared findings shall encompass the following issues:
      1.   Findings shall, whenever possible, be enumerated or codified within
the proposed amendment in order to provide an understanding of the Council's
purpose or intentions for the amendment.
      2.   Findings for changes to the regulations, standards, or text of the
General Plan are intended to list or identify the reasons the Council is
approving the change. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-52-8: AMENDMENTS PROCESSED IN PARALLEL:
Amendments to the General Plan may be processed at the same time with
amendments to the Land Use Regulations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 53
VARIANCES
SECTION:
10-53-1: Purpose
10-53-2: Standing To Apply For A Variance
10-53-3: Procedures, Reports And Hearings
10-53-1: PURPOSE:
When literal interpretation of the provisions of Title 10 or Title 11 of the
Wellsville City Code results in a situation where the property owner does not
have the opportunity to exercise basic property rights, the City may consider
an application to vary the standards of this Title. The purpose of a variance
is to relate only to the hardship identified and to ensure that the property is
not deprived of privileges generally granted to other properties in the same
area or zoning district. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-53-2: STANDING TO APPLY FOR A VARIANCE:
Any person who owns, leases, or otherwise holds an interest in property may
apply to the Board of Adjustment for consideration of a variance. If the person
making the application is not a record owner of the subject property, written
permission of the property owner is required prior to acceptance of the
variance application as complete. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-53-3: PROCEDURES, REPORTS AND HEARINGS:
Applications for variances are processed under the following provisions:
   A.   Title 2,
Chapter 2 Board of Adjustments, Wellsville City Code and;
   B.   Title 10,
Chapter 10-55 and;
   C.   Requirements as set forth in Utah Law.
   D.   A variance shall only be granted up if the Board of Adjustment finds
that all of the following requirements have been achieved:
      1.   Literal enforcement of the land use ordinance would cause an
unreasonable hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the
general purpose of the ordinance.
      2.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do not
generally apply to other properties in the same district.
      3.   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial
property right possessed by other property in the same zone.
      4.   The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and will
not be contrary to the public interest.
      5.   The spirit of the zoning ordinance is observed and substantial
justice is done.
All five (5) criteria must be found in favor of the variance in order for it to
be valid. The unreasonable hardship may not be self-imposed or purely economic,
and must arise from conditions unique to the property. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
CHAPTER 54
SPECIFIC PLANS
SECTION:
10-54-1: Purpose
10-54-2: Applicability
10-54-3: Administrative Process And Procedures
10-54-4: Modification Of Zone Standards And Design Standards
10-54-5: Completion Of Specific Plan
10-54-6: Specific Plan Approval Criteria
10-54-7: Specific Plans For Senior Housing
10-54-8: Specific Plans For Small Projects
10-54-8-1: Applicability
10-54-8-2: Administrative Process And Procedures
10-54-8-3: Modification Of Zone Standards And Design Standards
10-54-8-4 Completion of Small Projects Specific Plan
10-54-8-5: Specific Plan Approval Criteria
10-54-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Specific Plan is a master plan coordinating and directing development
of transportation, utilities, open space and land use, resulting in a specific
vision and cohesive plan for an area of the city. Specific Plans complete
detailed planning requirements for specific areas described in the General
Plan. The large-scale nature of Specific Plans indicates they may develop over
long periods of time.
   B.   The purposes of this Chapter are to:
      1.   Implement the General plan and applicable land use district(s) by
providing a means of master planning large areas of the City to create well-
designed centers, villages, and neighborhoods;
      2.   Facilitate the development of a consistent development pattern and
complimentary architectural styles throughout the City;
      3.   Encourage innovative planning that results in compatible mixed use
developments, improved protection of open spaces, coordinated transportation
and public facilities systems, and transportation options;
      4.   Promote an economic arrangement of land use, buildings, circulation
systems, open space, and utilities;
      5.   Preserve to the greatest extent possible existing landscape features
and amenities;
      6.   Assist the City in planning infrastructure improvements; and
      7.   Facilitate the efficient use of land; (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-54-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Specific Plan is required for all large undeveloped areas of the City
and areas proposed for redevelopment. As used here, large undeveloped areas
means areas of twenty (20) acres and greater. The Specific Plan designation is
an overlay zone that applies to any land determined to need a specific plan to
ensure better planning of multiple property parcels for an area of the City.
   B.   Approval of a Specific Plan is not required for minor developments such
as:
      1.   Expansion of existing buildings consistent with the requirements and
standards of the Land Use Regulations.
      2.   Single-family developments within existing platted subdivisions.
      3.   Developments proposed on individual lots of record not located
within an area described above as requiring a Specific Plan. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019)
10-54-3: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Initiation: The City Council or property owners in the subject area may
initiate Specific Plans.
   B.   Adoption: The Specific Plan overlay shall be adopted using the same
procedures and noticing as required in this title and Utah Law for adoption of
the general plan. An advisory committee may be appointed by the City Council to
guide development of a Specific Plan. The advisory committee may include
property owners within the Specific Plan or their representatives, neighbors,
city staff, agencies, representatives of special districts, or residents of the
City.
   C.   Map Identification: A Specific Plan overlay zone will be identified on
the City of Wellsville Zoning map by the designated name of the planning area.
   D.   General Plan Amendment: Specific Plans that are consistent with General
plan policies do not require general plan amendments. A general plan amendment
will be required only if it is determined during the Specific Planning process
that an amendment is needed.
   E.   Zoning Map Amendment: Specific Plans that are consistent with the
Zoning map do not require zone map amendments. A zone map amendment application
will be required only if it is determined during the Specific Planning process
that an amendment is needed.
   F.   Compliance With Applicable Standards And Procedures: Subdivisions, site
design review, development permits, building permits, and all land use
applications shall meet the applicable standards of the Land Use Regulations
and zoning district or the Specific Plan Overlay if alternative standards are
approved per Section
10-54-4.
   G.   Modifications To Specific Plan: Modifications to Approved Specific
Plans may be considered upon application or may be initiated by the staff, the
Mayor, the Planning Commission, or the City Council. A development application
may modify a specific plan by following the procedures for creation of Specific
Plan Overlays contained in
Chapter 10-54. Amendments to Approved Specific Plans and Conditions of Approval
may be modified by the City Council following a recommendation by the Planning
Commission. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-54-4: MODIFICATION OF ZONE STANDARDS AND DESIGN STANDARDS:
The City Council may approve modifications or adjustments to the standards in
Title 10 and through the Specific Plan Approval process without the need for
variances upon finding that all of the following criteria are met:
   A.   General Plan: The modification or adjustment equally or better meets
the intent of the General plan and Land Use Regulations section(s) to be
modified, as compared to a project that strictly conforms to code standards;
   B.   Public Benefit: The modification or adjustment results in an overall
net benefit to the public, e.g., clustering of smaller lots results in a
greater variety of housing, greater affordability in housing, more open space
or more usable open space, greater protection of natural features, avoidance of
natural hazards (e.g., geological hazards or drainage ways), superior
architecture, and/or improved transportation planning in new development;
   C.   Public improvement standards and engineering design criteria shall not
be modified without approved modifications to such standards approved by the
City Engineer. The City may grant such modifications concurrently with the
Specific Plan;
   D.   Residential densities shall not exceed those allowed under the General
plan.
   E.   Small Commercial and Mixed-Use Developments may be approved in a
Neighborhood Residential Specific Plan, provided the commercial component of
the project, including building area, parking, and landscape/commercial common
area, does not exceed five percent (5%) of the subject Specific Plan land area.
The commercial and mixed-use component shall be subject to the design standards
contained in the Neighborhood Center zone section, or the Neighborhood Center
design standards may be adapted through the Specific Plan approval process. The
design standards or modified design standards shall be binding on the project
through conditions of approval and a development agreement with City. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-54-5: COMPLETION OF SPECIFIC PLAN:
A Specific Plan for an area of the City may be initiated and funded by the City
Council. If property owners and/or developers desire for the Specific Plan to
be completed before authorized and funded by the City Council, the owners/
development interests may pay, to the City, funds to produce the Specific Plan
by a competitive request for proposals.
   A.   Scope Of Work For A Specific Plan: Specific Plans shall follow the
scope of work as described below:
      1.   Information Gathering. A planning professional will meet with an
appointed advisory committee to obtain information about the objectives of the
study, to gather background information, mapping, and data and to familiarize
the planning professional with the study area, it is expected that existing
G.I.S. data available from public sources will be used by the planning
professional to prepare the Specific Plan. There should be no need for original
data collection unless, the Planning Commission determines that significant
issues require additional study (ie. traffic study).
      2.   Public Involvement. The Specific Plan planning process shall involve
all public and private interests affected by the Specific Plan area. This will
often require going beyond the boundaries to solicit broad and open discussion
about concerns and planning solutions. The plan shall include a survey of
preferences for the possible solutions and concepts being considered.
      3.   Land Analysis. Perform a land analysis to determine the
opportunities and constrains for development of the study area and its context.
This analysis will include physical, environmental, ownership, economic, and
market factors using available data. Municipal service capacities will be
considered in the analysis. Upon completion of the land analysis, the planning
professional will define, with the owner, the boundaries of the study area.
      4.   Plan Objectives. A narrative shall set forth the goals and
objectives of the plan. The objectives shall focus on unique features of the
site such as natural resources, economic activity, or desired character and
include a description of the character of the proposed village, center or
neighborhood and the rationale behind the assumptions and choices made by the
planner;
      5.   Concepts. Generate several potential concepts for the development
plan. Provide enough detail for adequate evaluation of alternatives. Concepts
will include potential land uses, circulation systems, opens space, sustainable
design and development, parks, trails, critical lands, and service systems.
Recommend a preferred alternative with justifications.
      6.   Site and Context. A map of the area shall include an aerial photo
and identify the existing context of the site and the project area;
      7.   Land use diagram. The land use diagram shall indicate the
distribution and location of planned land uses including open space and parks,
critical lands, natural feature, historic and service systems. Recommend a
preferred alternative with justifications.
      8.   Public Facilities Analysis. The plan shall include a detailed
analysis of the major components of sanitary sewer, water, and other essential
facilities needed to support the land uses and densities described in the plan.
The public facilities analysis shall be consistent with the City's Public
Facilities Plan.
      9.   Circulation/Transportation Diagram. The circulation diagram shall
indicate the proposed street pattern for the plan area, and pedestrian pathways
and bikeways consistent with the Transportation System Plan. Design standards
and street cross sections shall be included.
      10.   Density. If residential uses are proposed, a narrative shall
describe planned residential densities.
      11.   Market Analysis. Specific Plans that include Centers or areas of
Neighborhood Commercial within the plan area shall include a market analysis of
supportable retail space that verifies demand for commercial uses in these
locations. The analysis will include a market delineation, a regional and local
economic review, and a retail market evaluation.
      12.   Illustrated Development Plan. Produce a proposed Specific Plan.
This plan must include a color illustrated drawing showing building massing,
roads with relative widths, outline parking, trails, amenities, preservation
areas, and labels to communicate the intent of the a planning professionals
plan. A vector based electronic copy of the plan, acceptable by the City, shall
be supplied to the City.
      13.   Design and Development Standards. If standards differ from normal
City standards, design and development standards shall be included in the plan
that meets the purpose of the equivalent City standards and the criteria in
Section
10-54-4.
      14.   Architectural Design Standards. Specific area concept plans may
include detailed architectural design guidelines consistent with the WellsviHe
Style Guide, or the architectural standards in the WellsviHe Land Use
Regulations if the Style Guide has not been adopted.
      15.   Special Studies. The City Planning Official, Planning Commission,
or City Council may require special studies prepared by qualified professionals
and engineers to determine potential traffic, geologic, noise, environmental,
natural resource and other impacts, and required mitigation.
      16.   Narrative Letter. A narrative letter shall document compliance with
the approval criteria contained in Section
10-54-6;
      17.   Final Document. A planning professional shall provide a final Area
Development Plan, compiling recommendations of the planning professional upon
review and approval by the City. The Area Deveiopment Plan shall summarize and
incorporate the analysis, concepts, and recommended plans. Provide other
support text, graphics, data, charts, and diagrams as needed. Plan shall be
prepared in color using acceptable digital software and supplied to the City
for printing and posting. The plan must of sufficient graphic quality to be
used to promote and communicate the Specific Plan to ail interests. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
10-54-6: SPECIFIC PLAN APPROVAL CRITERIA:
The City shall make findings that all of the following criteria are satisfied
when approving or approving with conditions the Specific Plan Overlay. The City
shall make findings that the criteria are not satisfied when denying an
application:
   A.   General Plan: All relevant provisions of the General plan are met.
   B.   Title 10 And 11 Requirements: All of the land use, development, and
design standards contained in Title 10 and 11, except as may be modified in
Section
10-54-4 or
10-54-7 for Senior Housing.
   C.   Facilities Plan Compliance: The proposed facilities plan complies with
the City's adopted Public Facilities Plan, and the applicable master plans of
the service providers in the area.
   D.   Transportation/Circulation: The transportation and circulation plan is
multi-modal and complies with the City's adopted Transportation Plan and Cache
Valley Transit Authority plan and access and transportation standards or
alternative standards as approved. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-54-7: SPECIFIC PLANS FOR SENIOR HOUSING:
   A.   Purpose: The City of Wellsville understands the need to provide for
housing of it's aging population. Providing for senior housing can allow
residents to move from their large homes to location central to city services
when they can live an active life without burden of property maintenance and
housekeeping of large homes. Senior housing also allows the elderly to live
close to friends and neighbors who have common interests. The following
specific purpose are:
      1.   Facilitate the development of senior housing and complimentary
architectural styles throughout the City;
      2.   Encourage innovative planning that results in housing for senior
citizens that is compatible with neighborhoods, improves protection of open
spaces, coordinates transportation and public facilities, and transportation
options;
      3.   Promote an economic arrangement of land use, buildings, circulation
systems, open space, and utilities;
   B.   Applicability:
      1.   Specific Plan for senior housing may be initiated for any area
within the Residential Single Family (RSF) zone. A Specific Plan designation
for senior housing is an overlay zone that applies to any land determined to
need.a specific plan to provide needed housing for senior citizens. The
provisions of Sections
10-54-5 and
10-54-6 shall also apply to specific plans for senior housing.
      2.   Approval of a Specific Plan for Senior Housing shall be required for
development that proposes to change density, setbacks, or area requirements
within the RSF zone.
   C.   Modification Of Zone Standards And Design Standards: The City Council
may approve modifications or adjustments to the standards in Title 10 for
Residential Single Family (RSF) zones and through the Specific Plan Approval
process without the need for variances upon finding that all of the following
criteria are met:
      1.   The modification or adjustment equally or better meets the intent of
the General plan and Land Use Regulations section(s) to be modified;
      2.   The modification or adjustment results in an overall net benefit to
the public, e.g., clustering of smaller lots results in a greater variety of
housing, greater affordability in housing, more open space or more usable open
space, greater protection of natural features, avoidance of natural hazards
(e.g., geological hazards or drainage ways), superior architecture, and/or
improved transportation planning in new development;
      3.   The senior housing development meets ADA accessibility standards and
encourages on-site walking with connections to existing or future public
walkways.
      4.   Public improvement standards and engineering design criteria shall
not be modified without approved modifications to such standards approved by
the City Engineer;
      5.   The architectural design is compatible with the surrounding
dwellings;
      6.   Residential densities shall not exceed six (6) dwelling units per
gross acre;
      7.   Construction of dwellings shall be one story only with no basement;
      8.   Each dwelling unit is detached or attached to no more than one (1)
other unit.
      9.   Each dwelling has an attached two (2) car garage. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019)
10-54-8: SPECIFIC PLANS FOR SMALL PROJECTS:
10-54-8-1: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Specific Plan may be required for small undeveloped areas of the City
and areas proposed for redevelopment of land areas less than twenty (20) acres,
The Specific Plan designation is an overlay zone that applies to any land
determined to need a specific plan to ensure better planning of multiple
property parcels and/or mixed-use projects.
   B.   Approval of a Specific Plan is not required for minor developments such
as:
      1.   Expansion of existing buildings consistent with the requirements and
standards of the Land Use Regulations.
      2.   Single-family developments within existing platted subdivisions.
(Res. 2021-08, 10-20-2021)
10-54-8-2: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Initiation: A Specific Plan for an area of the City may be initiated by
property owner(s). Funding to produce the proposed specific plan documents
shall be by the owner/developer. Initiation of a Specific Plan shall be
authorized by the City Council with a recommendation by the Planning
Commission. Upon authorization by the city, through council action, the owner/
developer may produce the Specific Plan as described in
10-54-8-4.
   B.   Adoption: The Specific Plan overlay shall be adopted using the same
procedures and noticing as required in this title and Utah Law for adoption of
the general plan, refer to Land Use Regulations 10-52 for adoption procedure.
   C.   Map Identification: A Specific Plan overlay zone will be identified on
the City of Wellsville Zoning map by the designated name of the planning area.
   D.   General Plan Amendment: Specific Plans that are consistent with General
plan policies do not require general plan amendments. A general plan amendment
will be required only if it is determined, during the Specific Planning
adoption process, that an amendment is needed.
   E.   Zoning Map Amendment: Specific Plans that are consistent with the
Zoning map do not require zone map amendments. A zoning map amendment be
effective whenever a specific plan is adopted. The zoning map shall show a new
designation of specific plan.
   F.   Compliance With Applicable Standards And Procedures: Subdivisions, site
design review, Design Review, development permits, building permits, and all
land use applications shall meet the applicable standards of the Land Use
Regulations and zoning district or the Specific Plan Overlay if alternative
standards are approved per Section
10-54-4.
   G.   Modifications To Specific Plan: Modifications to Approved Specific
Plans may be considered upon application or may be initiated by the staff, the
Mayor, the Planning Commission, the City Council or by the property owner (s).
A development application may modify a specific plan by following the
procedures for creation of Specific Plan Overlays contained in Chapter 10-54.
Amendments to Approved Specific Plans and Conditions of Approval may be
modified by the City Council following a recommendation by the Planning
Commission. (Res. 2021-08, 10-20-2021)
10-54-8-3: MODIFICATION OF ZONE STANDARDS AND DESIGN STANDARDS:
The City Council may approve modifications or adjustments to the standards in
Title 10 and through the Specific Plan Approval process without the need for
variances upon finding that all of the following criteria are met:
   A.   General Plan: The modification or adjustment equally or better meets
the intent of the General plan and Land Use Regulations section(s) to be
modified, as compared to a project that strictly conforms to code standards;
   B.   Public Benefit: The modification or adjustment results in an overall
net benefit to the public such as clustering of smaller lots resulting in a
greater variety of housing, greater affordability in housing, more open space
or more usable open space, greater protection of natural features, avoidance of
natural hazards (e.g., geological hazards or drainage ways, steep slopes,
unstable soils, etc.), superior architecture, and/or improved transportation
planning in a new development;
   C.   Public improvement standards and engineering design criteria shall not
be modified without approved modifications to such standards approved by the
City Engineer. The City may grant such modifications concurrently with the
Specific Plan;
   D.   Mixed use projects which include residential uses shall allow densities
to be determined as proposed at the time of the adoption of the specific plan,
provided that the General Plan indicates a commercial or enterprise land use or
that the General Plan is amended to be compatible with the specific plan. In
either case, sales tax generating uses shall be a significant element of the
specific plan.
   E.   For a project involving specific plan approval which proposes
residential uses only, the allowed density shall be determined as proposed and
approved at the time of adoption of the specific plan, provided that the
General Plan indicates that the property is in the Residential-Town Center. A
Residential Specific Plan shall include mixed densities or be proposed as a
Senior Housing Specific Plan. (Res. 2021-08, 10-20-2021)
10-54-8-4: COMPLETION OF SMALL PROJECTS SPECIFIC PLAN:
   A.   Scope Of Work or A Specific Plan: Specific Plans shall follow the scope
of work as described below:
       1.   It is expected that existing G.I.S. data available from public
sources will be used by the planning professional to prepare the Specific Plan.
There should be no need for original data collection, unless the Planning
Commission determines that significant issues require additional study (e.g.
traffic study).
      2.   Public Involvement. It is expected that required public hearings and
noticing will be sufficient for approval, unless the Planning Commission
identifies a compelling need to form a committee to advise the planning team.
      3.   Land Analysis. Perform a land analysis to determine the
opportunities and constraints for development of the site proposed for the
specific plan. This analysis will include physical, environmental, ownership,
economic, and market factors using available data. Municipal service capacities
will be considered in the analysis. This analysis will become part of the
specific plan submission for adoption.
      4.   Site and Context. A map of the area shall include an aerial photo
and identify the existing context of the site and the project area;
      5.   A simple land use bubble diagram. The land use diagram shall
indicate the distribution and location of planned land uses including open
space and parks, critical lands, natural features, vehicular and pedestrian
circulation, historic and service systems.
      6.   Public Facilities Analysis. The plan shall include a detailed
analysis of the major components of sanitary sewer, water, and other essential
facilities needed to support the land uses and densities described in the plan.
The public facilities analysis shall be consistent with the City's Public
Facilities Plan.
      7.   Market Analysis. It is assumed that a market analysis has or will be
produced to determine financial and market feasibility of the specific plan. A
summary of the existing market analysis shall be part of the submission.
      8.   Illustrated Development Plan, Produce a proposed Specific Plan. This
plan must include a color illustrated drawing showing building massing, roads
with relative widths, outline parking, trails, amenities, preservation areas,
and labels to communicate the intent of the plan.
      9.   Design and Development Standards. If standards differ from normal
City standards, design and development standards shall be included in the plan
that meets the purpose of the equivalent City standards and the criteria in
Section
10-54-4.
      10.   Architectural Design Standards. Specific plans shall include
detailed architectural design guidelines, or the architectural standards in the
Wellsville Land Use Regulations if the Style Guide has not been adopted.
      11.   Special Studies. The City Planning Official, Planning Commission,
or City Council may require special studies prepared by qualified professionals
and engineers to determine potential traffic, geologic, noise, environmental,
natural resource and other impacts, and required mitigation.
      12.   Final Document. A planning professional shall provide a final Area
Development Plan, compiling recommendations acquired during review and approval
by the City. The Plan shall summarize and incorporate the analysis, concepts,
and recommended specifics. Provide other support text, graphics, data, charts,
and diagrams as needed. Plan shall be prepared in color using acceptable
digital software and supplied to the City for printing and posting. The plan
must be of sufficient graphic quality to be used to promote and communicate the
Specific Plan to ail interests. (Res. 2021-08, 10-20-2021)
10-54-8-5: SPECIFIC PLAN APPROVAL CRITERIA:
The City shall make findings that all of the following criteria are satisfied
when approving or approving with conditions the Specific Plan Overlay. The City
shall make findings that the criteria are not satisfied when denying an
application:
   A.   General Plan: All relevant provisions of the General plan are met.
   B.   Title 10 And 11 Requirements: All of the land use, development, and
design standards contained in Title 10 and 11, except as may be modified in
Section
10-54-8-3.
   C.   Facilities Plan Compliance: The proposed facilities plan complies with
the City's adopted Public Facilities Plan, and the applicable master plans for
services.
   D.   Transportation/Circulation: The transportation and circulation plan is
multi-modal and complies with the City's adopted Transportation Plan. (Res.
2021-08, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 55
PROCEDURES FOR PROCESSING APPLICATIONS
SECTION:
10-55-1: Uniform Project Review Procedures
10-55-2: Concept Plan Review And Clearance
10-55-3: Application
10-55-4: Public Notice
10-55-5: Staff Or Consultant Report And Analysis
10-55-6: Public Hearing
10-55-7: Action
10-55-8: Findings Of Fact Required
10-55-9: Records Of Decision
10-55-10: Completion Of Projects
10-55-11: Standards For Development
10-55-1: UNIFORM PROJECT REVIEW PROCEDURES:
All applications for projects or appeals to be heard by the Design Review
Committee, Board of Adjustment, the Planning Commission, or the City Council
shall be processed with the uniform procedures of this chapter. This chapter is
not applicable to application for amendments or modifications to the General
Plan, Land Use Regulations, or Zoning Map as set forth in
Chapters 10-51 and
10-52. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-55-2: CONCEPT PLAN REVIEW AND CLEARANCE:
Prior to submitting an application for a Design Review Permit, a concept plan
shall be submitted for review by Planning Commission or it's planning
consultant. The review process will allow the Planning Commission to work with
the proponent to make a complete and accurate submission for consideration to
the Design Review Committee. This step will also minimize false start design
costs and redesign costs for the developer. When it is determined that the
concept plan meets the intent of the Land Use Regulations and site plan
requirements of Section
10-46-3, application may be submitted for a Design Review Permit. Concept plans
shall include a drawing prepared to scale, accurately depicting the property
lines, critical lands, buildings, setbacks, paving, trees, and other site
features as required in Section
10-46-3. The proposed development shall show proposed buildings, parking,
landscaping, signs and building elevations. The review and clearance for a
concept plan does not require notice to the public or affected entities. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-55-3: APPLICATION:
A complete application, graphic(s), deed(s), plat map(s) and other map(s)
meeting the requirements established by the decision-making body and Planning
Commission shall be submitted to the City Planning and Zoning Division along
with the fees and charges established by the City Council. An application shall
be accompanied by proof that the person submitting the application either owns
the subject property or the proponent has the consent of at least one record
owner of all the land comprising the subject property.
   A.   Complete Application Required: The Planning Commission shall not accept
nor schedule for hearing any application that does not contain all the required
materials and supporting documentation as specified in this Title and the
City's administrative procedures. No applications may be accepted for hearing
if the required fees have not been submitted. If an application is incomplete,
the Planning Commission may remove the application from the scheduled hearing
date without concurrence of the proponent if additional information is needed
and not submitted in a timely manner to allow adequate report preparation time.
   B.   Distribution Of Application: The Planning Commission shall distribute
copies of the proposed project to appropriate City and public agencies, and
public utilities for purposes of soliciting comments. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-55-4: PUBLIC NOTICE:
   A.   Mailed Notice: Written mailed notice shall be sent by first class mail
to all owners of real property within three hundred feet (300') (in any
direction) of the property being considered for review or a permit. Notice
shall be mailed within, not less than, ten (10) calendar days prior to the
hearing date of the decisionmaking or recommending body (as specified in
section
10-55-1). The basis for determining the affected property owners shall be the
latest County Assessor's records. The notice shall include:
      1.   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      2.   The body before which the hearing is scheduled;
      3.   The case number, project docket number, or other identification
number of the project, and the project's title;
      4.   The project's address;
      5.   The name of the proponent;
      6.   The type of project or projects, including an identification of all
types of actions required;
      7.   A general description of the proposed project as submitted by the
proponent. The Planning Commission may edit the description to more clearly
define the legal parameters under which the project is to be reviewed. The
description should be neutral in tone and not be inappropriately embellished to
create a belief that the City either favors or disapproves of the application;
      8.   A statement explaining when and where interested persons can obtain
information;
      9.   The name of staff member and direct phone number to contact the
staff member; and
      10.   An explanation as to how to participate in the hearing.
   B.   Published Notice For All Projects: At least ten (10) calendar days
before the meeting, the City shall cause to be published a notice or copy of
the agenda in a newspaper of general circulation in and for the City of
Wellsville. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-55-5: STAFF OR CONSULTANT REPORT AND ANALYSIS:
   A.   A written Staff or Consultant Report may be required by the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission shall review the applications for
conformance with submittal requirements. If the Planning Commission determines
that professional planning recommendations are needed to assist the Commission
in its decisions, a staff report shall be prepared to generally include the
following items when relevant:
      1.   Analyzes the proposed project for conformance with plans, policies,
and the provisions of this title;
      2.   Incorporates the comments of other City and public agencies, and
public utilities;
      3.   Incorporates all public comments received prior to the date of
publication;
      4.   Incorporates the analysis and comments of the staff and consultants;
      5.   Incorporates the analysis and comments of the City Engineer;
      6.   Includes a recommendation to approve, conditionally approve, or deny
the request;
      7.   Includes recommended conditions of approval, if needed; and
      8.   Includes the findings of fact on which staff or consultant bases its
recommendation with the understanding that the decision-makers may accept or
reject these facts based on the information it finds at the public hearing.
   B.   Distribution Of Copies: Copies of the staff report shall be distributed
to the decision-makers, proponent, and commenting departments at least three
(3) days prior to the Commission meeting. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-55-6: PUBLIC HEARING:
The decision-makers or recommending body shall hold a public hearing at which
it considers the staff or consultant report, the application of the proponent
and comments by interested members of the public or other organizations. The
decisionmakers or recommending body shall conduct the public hearing according
to adopted by-laws or other accepted meeting procedures. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-55-7: ACTION:
   A.   Action Following A Public Hearing: Following the public hearing, the
decision-making or recommending body shall take a vote to approve,
conditionally approve, deny the project application, or continue the matter to
a future meeting.
   B.   Continuing A Project To A Future Meeting: The decision-makers may
continue a project hearing or deliberations to a future meeting, but in no case
shall a period of no more than six (6) months pass from the first public
hearing to the date of action.
      1.   Continuing a matter to a date and time specific shall not require
mailed notices to be sent for the continued meeting unless specifically
directed by the decision-makers.
      2.   Continuing a matter to a non-specified meeting date requires that
the new public notices in conformance with this chapter be published and
mailed.
      3.   Matter may be continued if the proponent is not present at the
public hearing or if the decision-making body finds that there is inaccurate
information or insufficient information from which to make a decision.
      4.   Unless otherwise determined by the decision-making or recommending
body, a project which has been continued for more than six months shall be
deemed withdrawn from any consideration. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-55-8: FINDINGS OF FACT REQUIRED:
   A.   All Decisions Shall Be Supported With Findings: Based on the
requirements within the individual chapters for types of applications (Refer to
Section
10-55-1), the decision-making or recommending body shall not be able to take
action without making the appropriate findings of fact specified in the
chapter.
   B.   Failure To Make Findings: The decision-makers may deny a proposed
project when they are not able to find facts in the record to substantiate the
required findings in this section. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-55-9: RECORDS OF DECISION:
The Planning Commission shall prepare a Record of Decision enumerating the
action of the decision-makers, the conditions imposed (if any), and the
findings adopted to support the action. The Record of Decision shall be
included in the minutes of the meeting in which the decision was made by the
decision makers until such time that the City determines that a form Record of
Decision is prepared by staff following the decision. The Record of Decision,
prepared by staff may be signed by the proponent and shall be signed by the
Planning Commission and shall be recorded against the Tax Identification Number
with the County Recorder. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-55-10: COMPLETION OF PROJECTS:
All projects shall be initiated prior to the expiration dates specified in the
appropriate code sections. If not extended pursuant to the appropriate code
section, the permits shall become null and void. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-55-11: STANDARDS FOR DEVELOPMENT:
All project applications shall be processed by the regulations in effect at the
time a complete application was accepted by the Planning Commission. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 56
COMPLIANCE WITH CONDITIONS
SECTION:
10-56-1: Compliance Required
10-56-2: Compliance Timing
10-56-3: Improvement Security
10-56-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Conditions Imposed On Project Approvals: All projects are subject to
the conditions adopted by the decision-makers as a part of the project review
process. Failure to comply with adopted conditions shall be a violation of this
title and may result in the revocation of any permits, or other corrective
actions or penalties provided for in this Title.
   B.   Conditions Imposed By Statute Or Ordinance: Any requirement or
condition imposed as a mandate by statue or ordinance shall be a standard
requirement of any project approval or permit issued by the City whether or not
the requirement or condition is enumerated in the permit or approval. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-56-2: COMPLIANCE TIMING:
   A.   Compliance Prior To Issuance Of A Building Permit: Any requirement or
condition for which compliance is required prior to the issuance of a building
or grading permit shall be completed prior to the release of any permits from
the City, unless security has been posted pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Compliance Prior To Project Use Or Occupancy: Any requirement or
condition for which compliance is required prior to the use or occupancy of a
building, structure, site, or lot shall be completed prior to any use or
occupancy of the project, prior to the issuance of any permanent or temporary
occupancy permits, or prior to moving equipment, furniture, or occupants into
the project. Completion may be deferred if the City receives improvement
security pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   Landscaping To Be Installed Prior To Commencement Of Use Or Occupancy:
All landscaping shall be installed according to sound nursery practices in a
manner designed to encourage vigorous and healthy growth. All landscape
material, living and non-living shall be in place prior to the commencement of
use, occupancy, or issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy (Section
10-39-8).
   D.   Temporary Occupancy Requirements Related To Landscaping: A Certificate
of Occupancy may be issued prior to the installation of required landscaping
upon execution of an agreement with the City and acceptance by the City of
appropriate surety.
      1.   Land development that does not require or is normally utilized
without obtaining a certificate of occupancy shall have landscaping installed
per this chapter prior to the initiation of any use or any occupancy of the
facility, structure, or grounds.
      2.   An agreement for temporary occupancy shall be used only under
extenuating circumstances which prohibit the physical installation of
landscaping at the time the Certificate of Occupancy is issued (snow cover,
frozen ground, flooding). Financial or similar issues shall not constitute
extenuating circumstances for the purpose of this section. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019)
10-56-3: IMPROVEMENT SECURITY:
When in the judgment of the City Manager, it is not feasible to complete
requirements or conditions imposed by statute or ordinance prior to the
issuance of a permit, use, or occupancy, the improvement security may be
accepted pursuant to this section to guarantee completion of the requirements
or conditions.
   A.   Acceptance of Security: Improvement security may be accepted by the
following departments in relation to requirements or conditions under
departmental authority:
      1.   Landscaping, parking, parking lot lighting, signage, site amenities
and furnishings: Planning Commission;
      2.   Right-of-way improvements, access locations, street improvements,
curb, gutter, sidewalk, improvements related to driveways: City Engineer;
      3.   Sewer, water, utilities: Public Works Director;
      4.   Buildings. Structures, and all other improvements or deferrals:
Building Inspector.
   B.   Types of Security: With the exception of improvements required under
provisions of Title 10, the following types of surety may be accepted:
      1.   Certificate of deposit, cash, cashiers check, or savings account in
favor of the City of Wellsville in the amount of one hundred and ten percent
(110%) of the estimated cost of improvements;
      2.   Irrevocable letter of credit issued by a Federally insured financial
institution in the amount of one hundred and ten percent (110%) of the
estimated cost of improvements;
      3.   Escrow, draw-down, or performance account to which the City is a
signatory and the escrow agent guarantees payment in the amount of one hundred
and ten percent (110%) of the estimated cost of improvements;
      4.   Performance bond issued by a financial institution, insurance
company, or surety company with a Moodys or Standard and Poors investment grade
bond rating in the amount of one hundred and ten percent (110%) of the
estimated costs of improvements.
   C.   Estimating The Cost Of Improvements:
      1.   The permit holder shall present the City with a firm construction
bid for the improvements that shall be valid for at least six (6) months from
the date of the bid.
      2.   The bid shall be reviewed by the City Engineer or the appropriate
departmental authority prior to acceptance of the estimated cost.
      3.   If the City accepts the bid amount, the permit holder may use that
amount for securing and delivering surety to the City,
      4.   If the City does not accept the bid amount, the permit holder shall
obtain three (3) firm bids for the work to be secured with prices valid for at
least six (6) months. The City shall accept the average of the three (3) bids
as the base amount for improvement security. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 57
APPEALS
SECTION:
10-57-1: Purpose
10-57-2: Standing To File An Appeal
10-57-3: Body To Hear Appeals (Appeal Authority)
10-57-4: Filing Appeals
10-57-5: Contents Of The Request For An Appeal
10-57-6: Public Notice
10-57-7: Staff Report Required
10-57-8: Appeal Meeting
10-57-9: Decision Of The Appeal
10-57-10: Findings Required To Overturn Or Modify The Decision-Makers Action
10-57-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide uniform appeals procedures for
development-related actions of the City. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-57-2: STANDING TO FILE AN APPEAL:
The proponent or any affected party who participated in the hearing process may
file an appeal of a decision type set forth in Table Section 10-57-3. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-57-3: BODY TO HEAR APPEALS (APPEAL AUTHORITY):
   Table 10-57-3: Appeal Authority and Project Types
Type of Project Appeal is Heard Before (Appeal Authority)
Type of Project                      Appeal is Heard Before (Appeal Authority)
Interpretations of the Land Use      Board of Adjustment
Regulations
Boundary Line Adjustments            City Council
Conditional Use Permits              City Council
Design Review Permits                City Council
Subdivisions                         City Council
Nonconformity Determination by Staff Board of Adjustment
All Other Zoning Related Actions by  Board of Adjustment
Staff
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-57-4: FILING APPEALS:
   A.   All administrative appeals are filed in writing with the Planning
Commission in the offices of the City within fifteen calendar days of the
action being appealed. An appeals application not filed in the City shall not
constitute a filing for purposes of meeting the fifteen (15) day limit.
   B.   Appeals filed with District Court shall be filed in conformance with
the requirements of State law and court procedures. Nothing in this chapter is
intended to imply changes to, other procedures for, or otherwise override
standard procedures and timelines of District Court. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-57-5: CONTENTS OF THE REQUEST FOR AN APPEAL:
   A.   Administrative Procedures: The City shall prepare administrative
procedures and application for filing an appeal before the City Council or the
Board of Adjustment.
   B.   Minimum Requirements For A Request To Appeal: At a minimum the request
for an appeal shall be filed in writing and include the following:
      1.   The name of the person or persons filing the appeal, a mailing
address and daytime telephone number;
      2.   The project file number and the name of the project as it appeared
on the agenda;
      3.   The date of the original hearing;
      4.   Any required appeal application fee;
      5.   The specific issues being appealed:
         a.   The appeal may not merely appeal the action of the decision-
making body;
         b.   If the project was conditionally approved and specific conditions
are being appealed, the request for an appeal shall specify the conditions
being appealed and the reasons for the appeal;
         c.   If the project was approved without conditions, the request for
appeal shall specify the findings used by the decision-making body that have
generated the appeal request;
         d.   If the project was denied, the request for appeal shall specify
the findings used by the decision-making body that have generated the appeal
request;
      6.   A statement shall be included indicating that the appellant was a
participant in the original hearing process by:
         a.   Submitting written comments prior to or during the public
hearing, or
         b.   Verification that the appellant was in attendance at the
decision-making body's hearing, or
         c.   The appellant spoke at the decision-making body's hearing.
   C.   Incomplete Applications Unacceptable: An incomplete application for an
appeal shall not be accepted. Submitting an incomplete application shall not
waive, defer, or delay the fifteen (15) day appeal deadline. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019)
10-57-6: PUBLIC NOTICE:
After giving notice in conformance with
Chapter 10-55, the City Council or Board of Adjustment, respectively, shall
hold a public meeting. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-57-7: STAFF REPORT REQUIRED:
   A.   Appeals Of Commissions And Committees: The appeal proceedings shall
include a staff report updated from the Commission or Committee meeting with
the results of the meeting and a summary of the actions or finding being
appealed.
   B.   Appeals Of Staff Decisions And Boundary Line Adjustments: The staff
person rendering the decision being appealed shall provide the Board and
appellant with a written report or memorandum explaining the basis of the
decision or interpretation. This report or memorandum shall serve as the
administrative record of decision. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-57-8: APPEAL MEETING:
Not less than ten (10) calendar days following the mailing of a public notice,
the City Council or Board of Adjustment shall hold a public meeting to hear the
appeal. At that meeting, the Board shall hear the staff report including a
summary of the action being appealed, the testimony of the appellant, the
testimony of the proponent, if different from the appellant, and any comments
from the public. The Board may take testimony and comments from the general
public, and it may consider new information and facts in reaching its decision.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-57-9: DECISION OF THE APPEAL:
The Appeal Authority shall render its decision at the meeting by majority vote
of the members present, unless the matter is continued to a future meeting
pending a request of the decision makers for more information. The Appeal
Authority may decide to do either of the following:
   A.   Overturn the action on the basis of its findings;
   B.   It may uphold the decision-makers;
   C.   Or, if new information is presented that was not previously presented
to the decision-makers, the Appeal Authority may return the matter for new
proceedings. The action of the City Council or the Board is the final
administrative procedure within the City's process. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-57-10: FINDINGS REQUIRED TO OVERTURN OR MODIFY THE DECISION-MAKERS ACTION:
If the City Council or Board, respectively, overturns or modifies the action of
the decision-makers, for which the appeal was initiated, the City Council or
the Board shall make findings substantiated in conformance with the
requirements of procedures for the type of action being appealed. If the City
Council or Board upholds the appealed action, no additional findings are
required, the City Council or Board's action automatically affirms the
previously adopted findings. The City Council or Board may, upon upholding the
decision-makers, add, clarify, or enhance findings based upon the facts of the
appeal meeting. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 58
EXPIRATION AND EXTENSIONS OF TIME
SECTION:
10-58-1: Expiration Of Permits
10-58-2: Extensions Of Time
10-58-3: Standards For Approving Extensions Of Time
10-58-1: EXPIRATION OF PERMITS:
The original approvals shall be valid for the time specified in this section:
   A.   Conditional Use Permits:
      1.   If no building permit has been obtained by the proponent, the permit
issued pursuant to this Title shall expire one (1) year from the date of
approval unless an extension of time has been approved.
      2.   If no building permit is required, the use or occupancy of the
project for which the permit has been issued shall be initiated and business
licenses obtained within one (1) year from the date of approval unless an
extension of time has been approved.
   B.   Design Review Permits:
      1.   If no building permit has been obtained by the proponent, the permit
issued pursuant to this title shall expire one (1) year from the date or
approval unless an extension of time has been approved.
      2.   If no building permit is required, the use or occupancy of the
project for which the permit has been issued shall be initiated and business
licenses obtained within one year from the date of approval unless an extension
of time has been approved.
   C.   All Other Permits:
      1.   If no building permit has been obtained by the proponent, the permit
issued pursuant to this Title shall expire one (1) year from the date of
approval unless an extension of time has been approved.
      2.   If no building permit is required, the use or occupancy of the
project for which the permit has been issued shall be initiated and business
licenses obtained within one (1) year from the date of approval unless an
extension of time has been approved. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-58-2: EXTENSIONS OF TIME:
   A.   Conditional Use Permits and Design Review Permits:
      1.   For commercial and industrial, and multi-family projects, two
extensions of time may be permitted;
      2.   An extension of time, not to exceed a cumulative total of two (2)
years from the original expiration date may be approved by the Planning
Commission if the findings in Section
10-58-3 are substantiated.
   B.   All Other Projects, Except Building Permits: For single family, public
or other non-commercial or non-industrial projects, an extension of time, not
to exceed a cumulative total of two (2) years from the original expiration date
may be approved by the Planning Commission if the findings in Section
10-58-3 are substantiated. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-58-3: STANDARDS FOR APPROVING EXTENSIONS OF TIME:
Extensions of Time Approved by the Planning Commission: The Planning Commission
shall not approve an extension of time for which authority is granted by this
chapter unless the following findings can be substantiated:
   A.   The proponent's initiation of development activities is based on an
action by the City or other public agency which has not taken place or was
delayed, resulting in a time delay beyond the permit holder's control.
   B.   The proponent has made a good faith effort to initiate the project by
systematically completing pre-development conditions to the satisfaction of the
responsible agency or department. If condition of approval conflict with these
requirements, the more restrictive requirements shall apply.
   C.   Circumstances - other than approval of financing - beyond the control
of the permit holder has prevented initiation of the project.
   D.   The Planning Commission has modified the project's conditions to ensure
that development standards in effect at the time of the second extension of
time are required for compliance. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 59
LEGALLY EXISTING NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
10-59-1: Purpose
10-59-2: Types Of Legally Existing Nonconformities
10-59-3: Policy
10-59-4: Authority To Continue
10-59-5: Nonconforming Uses
10-59-6: Nonconforming Structures
10-59-7: Nonconforming Lots
10-59-8: Nonconforming Signs
10-59-9: Restricted Lot
10-59-10: Procedure To Grant Certification Of Legally Existing Nonconforming
Status And Issuance Of Grandfather Certificate
10-59-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to govern the uses, structures, lots, and other
situations that came into being lawfully but that do not conform to one (1) or
more standards of the Land Use Regulations. The regulations are intended to
recognize the interests of property owners in continuing to use nonconforming
property, and to manage the expansion of legally existing nonconformities, to
regulate re-establishment of abandoned uses, and to limit re-establishment of
structures that have been substantially destroyed. It is the policy of the City
Council that as legally existing nonconformities obtain permits or reviews
pursuant to this chapter, that the objective is to ultimately replace the
legally existing nonconformity with a conforming use or structure. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
10-59-2: TYPES OF LEGALLY EXISTING NONCONFORMITIES:
The regulations of this chapter address the following types of legally existing
nonconformities:
   A.   Nonconforming Uses;
   B.   Nonconforming Structures;
   C.   Nonconforming Lots;
   D.   Nonconforming Signs;
   E.   Other Legally Existing Nonconformities:
      1.   Fences and walls with heights, materials, setbacks, or locations
that are not in conformance with City requirements;
      2.   Parking lots, facilities, structures, or sites that are not in
conformance with City requirements;
      3.   Other site development characteristics that are not in conformance
with City requirements and standards. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-59-3: POLICY:
   A.   Legally existing nonconforming uses shall be permitted to continue as
operating in the same way the use operated at the time zoning regulations were
enacted, revised, or amended which rendered the use nonconforming.
   B.   Owners of land upon which there are legally existing nonconforming land
uses may be granted a conditional use permit to substitute a use or expand a
use within acceptable limits pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   The Planning Commission may, approve, conditionally approve, or deny an
expansion of a nonconforming use, an expansion of the structure, or a legally
existing non-conforming substitution of use.
      1.   The conditional use permit procedures shall be followed for
consideration of the proposed change of the nonconforming use.
      2.   The Planning Commission may deny the change of use or its expansion
if it finds that the continued use or expansion is incompatible with conforming
uses in the area.
      3.   The Planning Commission may deny the substitution of use if it
cannot substantiate by evidence in the administrative record the findings
required for conditional use permit approvals or if it finds that the proposed
substituted use is incompatible with conforming uses in the area.
      4.   When a legally existing nonconforming land use or legally existing
nonconforming structure is abandoned for a period of twelve (12) or more
calendar months, the legally existing nonconforming status is no longer
considered valid and the use or structure may be established only as a
conforming use or structure.
   D.   A use or structure which becomes legally existing nonconforming upon
the adoption, revision, or amendment or applicable regulations may continue.
However, if the structure or use is vacated for twelve (12) or more months
following the modifications to the ordinance that rendered it nonconforming, it
shall lose its legally existing status and shall be brought into conformance
with appropriate codes prior to subsequent use.
   E.   Each of the sections in this chapter addressing the process for
obtaining approvals for nonconforming uses, nonconforming structures,
nonconforming lots, nonconforming signs, and other legally existing
nonconformities are separate components of an approval. There can be a
nonconforming use in a conforming structure; a conforming use in a
nonconforming structure; a nonconforming use in a nonconforming structure,
among other considerations. Each issue of nonconformity requires a separate
action. These actions may occur as a part of the same application. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
10-59-4: AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE:
   A.   Continuing Legally Existing Nonconformities: Legally existing
nonconformities may be allowed to continue in accordance with all of the
regulations of this chapter.
   B.   Determination Of Nonconformity Status: The burden of proof establishing
that a nonconformity lawfully exists rests with the owner, not the City. The
City Council may establish fees to cover the cost of City staff providing
research services to determine nonconformity status in order to support the
proponent's burden of proof requirement.
   C.   Repairs And Maintenance: Minor repairs and normal maintenance required
to keep legally existing nonconformities in a safe or aesthetically attractive
condition are permitted, provided that all alterations meet current code
requirements.
   D.   Change Of Tenancy Or Ownership: Changes of tenancy, ownership or
management of an existing nonconformity are permitted, provided there is no
change in the nature, character, extent, density or intensity of the
nonconformity. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-59-5: NONCONFORMING USES:
Nonconforming uses are subject to the following standards. Nonconforming
structures, nonconforming signs, nonconforming lots, and other nonconformities
are addressed in other sections.
   A.   Enlargement: A nonconforming use may be enlarged, expanded, or extended
to occupy more land area or floor area than was occupied at the time the use
became nonconforming, and additional accessory use or structure may be
established on the site of a nonconforming use following the review for
consideration of a conditional use permit. The use permit is a discretionary
action and the effect of the nonconformity on the conforming uses and
structures shall be considered in the review. Legally existing nonconforming
uses may be extended through any part of a currently occupied building or other
structure in which the use was lawfully located on the date the use became
nonconforming.
   B.   Relocation: Nonconforming uses shall not be transferred or moved to
another lot unless the use will be in conformance with the use regulations of
the district into which it is moved and the relocation activities and
construction meet current building code regulations.
   C.   Discontinuance And Abandonment: If a nonconforming use ceases to exist
for any reason for a period of more than twelve (12) consecutive months,
subsequent uses shall conform to all regulations of this Land Use Regulations
for the district in which such lot is located.
   D.   Damage Or Destruction: In the event that any structure devoted in whole
or in part to a nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed, the use may be
restored to the intensity or density that existed prior to the damage or
destruction. In such cases, the use shall be re-established within twelve (12)
months of the date of damage occurrence.
   E.   Substitution Of Use:
      1.   Substitution: An application for a conditional use permit to
substitute a nonconforming use may be submitted provided that the new use is of
the same general character as defined in Section
10-59-5E(2) of this section as the legally existing nonconforming use being
replaced. The determination of whether a proposed use is a continuing use or is
of the same general character shall be considered as one of the findings to be
substantiated with review of the application for a conditional use permit.
      2.   "Same general character" means a substituted land use for which
compatibility is determined utilizing a combination of the following resources:
         a.   North American Industrial Classification (NAIC): the substituted
land use shall be within the same secondary business classification as the use
being replaced; or
         b.   Traffic generation: the number of vehicles per measurable unit
for the substituted use shall be within fifteen percent (15%) of the number of
vehicles per measurable unit identified in the current Institute of
Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip General Manual as the use being replaced;
or
         c.   The substituted use shall be permitted for not more than ten
percent (10%) more employees or fewer number than the number of employees
utilized in the use being replaced; or
         d.   The substituted use shall not generate or cause any measurable
impacts on the neighborhood that are greater than the use being replaced.
Impacts the Planning Commission shall consider in its decision include and are
not limited to:
            (1)   Customer traffic as compared to the use being replaced;
            (2)   Audible noise in excess of levels generated by the use being
replaced;
            (3)   Particulate emissions or odors generated in any amount;
            (4)   Atmospheric emissions, storm water discharge or sewer
discharge;
         e.   The Commission shall address each of these issues in its
deliberations on the substitution of a use.
            (1)   The Commission may combine compliance with these standards
with other facts in the administrative record and other findings as required by
ordinance or statute in determining the compatibility of the substituted use
with conforming uses in the neighborhood;
            (2)   The Commission has the discretion to deny a substitution of
use when facts in the administrative record substantiate that there is a fair
argument that the substituted use will adversely affect the character of a
neighborhood, or the public health, safety, and general welfare;
            (3)   The Commission has the discretion to deny a substitution of
use, even if the use is of the same general character as the use being replaced
- when it finds that the substituted use will adversely affect the neighborhood
or impact the public health, safety, and welfare.
      3.   Following substitution of use:
         a.   If changed to a conforming use, a nonconforming use shall not be
permitted nor conditionally permitted to be established; or
         b.   If a substituted use has been approved for the location, the
standard of review for "same general character" shall be based on the most
recent substituted use, not the original or any previous legally existing
nonconforming land use.
   F.   Accessory Uses: No accessory use to a primary nonconforming use may
continue after the principal primary use ceases or terminates unless it is
conforming.
   G.   Illegally Established Uses: No use may be considered a legally existing
nonconforming use under the provisions of this Title if the use was never
lawfully established, including and not limited to, any combination of
appropriate license, permits, or fees(see definition for Nonconforming Use,
Chapter 10-62). (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-59-6: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Nonconforming structures are subject to the following standards. Nonconforming
uses, nonconforming signs, nonconforming lots, and other nonconformities are
addressed in other sections of this chapter.
   A.   Enlargement: Expansion or enlargement of a nonconforming structure that
increases the degree of nonconformity shall be prohibited. The initial
determination of whether a proposed expansion increases the degree of
nonconformity shall be made by the Planning Commission.
   B.   Extension Of A Legally Existing Single-Family Structure: An existing
structure used as a single-family dwelling that does not conform to side yard
requirements, but having minimum side setback or not less than three feet (3'),
may be extended in depth along the nonconforming building line to the extent of
one-half (1/2) of the length of the existing structure. This extension of a
nonconforming side setback may be permitted at the discretion of the Planning
Commission if the extension is for the purpose of enlarging or maintaining the
existing dwelling and is subject to the following findings:
      1.   The extension will not increase the number of dwelling units;
      2.   The extension will not result in a change of the use as a single-
family dwelling;
      3.   The extension complies with all other regulations in the zoning
district in which the dwelling is located;
      4.   The extension will comply with applicable building code regulations.
   C.   Damage Or Destruction: In the event that any nonconforming structure is
damaged or destroyed, it may be restored. In such cases, a building permit
shall be obtained within twelve (12) months of the date of damage occurrence
and restoration must be started and diligently pursued in accordance with the
terms of the building permit.
   D.   Relocation: Nonconforming structures shall not be moved or relocated to
another location unless the movement or relocation will bring the structure
into compliance with all applicable zoning district regulations and building
code requirements.
   E.   Illegal Structures: No structure may be considered a legally existing
nonconforming structure under the provisions of this chapter if the structure
was never lawfully established. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-59-7: NONCONFORMING LOTS:
A legal lot created in conformance with State and City regulations in effect at
the first date of recordation may be occupied and used although it may not
conform in every respect with the dimensional requirements of this Land Use
Regulations, subject to the provisions of this section.
   A.   Undeveloped Lots: If a legally existing nonconforming lot is
undeveloped, then the owner may use the property as permitted by the applicable
zoning district, provided that any structures shall comply with applicable site
development standards of this Title.
   B.   Developed Lots: If a legally existing nonconforming lot is developed,
then the owner may use the property as permitted by the applicable zoning
district, provided that any additional structures or development shall comply
with applicable site development standards of this Title.
   C.   Illegal Lots: No lot shall be considered a legally existing
nonconforming lot under the provisions of this chapter if the lot was never
lawfully established. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-59-8: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Change Of Copy: Change of copy or the substitution of panels or faces
of the same or less square feet on nonconforming signs shall be permitted.
Repairs and maintenance of nonconforming signs such as repainting and
electrical repairs shall be permitted. Change of copy shall not be made by
replacement with an electronic message center without obtaining a design review
permit in conformance with
Chapter 10-40.
   B.   Enlargement Or Expansion: A legally existing nonconforming sign may at
the discretion of the decisionmaking body be remodeled or redesigned for
aesthetic or safety purposes. This discretionary action may be approved with a
Design Review Permit if it is found that the design and appearance of the sign
is an aesthetic improvement over the nonconforming sign.
   C.   Moving: It shall be unlawful to move or relocate any existing sign,
except in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 10-40.
   D.   Abandoned Signs: Any nonconforming sign that ceases being used for a
continuous period of ninety (90) days shall not be reused for sign purposes
until it is brought into full compliance with the standards of the sign
regulations in effect at the time a permit for a new sign is proposed.
   E.   Abandoned Businesses: Any nonconforming sign that pertains to a
business or institution that ceases operation for a period of ninety (90) days
or more shall not be reused for sign purposes until it is brought into full
compliance with the standards of sign regulations in effect at the time a
permit for a new sign is proposed.
   F.   Illegal Signs: No sign may be considered a legally existing
nonconforming sign under the was never lawfully established provisions of this
chapter if the sign. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-59-9: RESTRICTED LOT:
A restricted lot shall not be expanded or improved in use, building, area, yard
requirements or in any way changed, except for maintenance of extisting
structures, unless obtaining a Conditional Use Permit issued by the Planning
Commission. See definition of Lot Restricted in
Chapter 10-61. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-59-10: PROCEDURE TO GRANT CERTIFICATION OF LEGALLY EXISTING NONCONFORMING
STATUS AND ISSUANCE OF GRANDFATHER CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Property Owners Right To Apply: Considering requirements of
Chapter 10-59, a property owner may apply for a determination by the City that
an existing nonconformity was established lawfully and that a Grandfather
Certificate may be granted. Application may be made on forms available to
determine if a nonconforming use, structure, lot, and/or sign was established
legally and justifies granting a Grandfather Certificate. The applicant shall
research and provide all information required on the application and submit to
the City Office for further evaluation. The City staff assigned to the
application shall perform independent research to ensure that all information
is accurate and that pertinent records of the City are included with the
application before forwarding to the Planning Commission. The city staff
assigned to the application shall make findings and recommendations to the
Planning Commission. Time required for city research will be based on
availability of staff, however the application shall not be unreasonably
delayed. The burden of proof that the nonconformity was established legally is
the sole responsibility of the property owner (Section
10-59-4).
   B.   Recommendation of the Planning Commission: City staff shall forward the
owner's application and any other related information to the next available
agenda of the Planning Commission. Public notice shall be made timely and a
public hearing for the application shall be posted on the Planning Commission
agenda. All property owners within three hundred feet (300') shall be notified
of the public hearing. The Planning Commission shall consider the matter and
make its recommendation to the City Council. The Planning Commission may
recommend approval, denial, or continuance of the application.
The Planning Commission shall consider all facts and conditions brought forward
in the application, staff report, and public comment. The following findings
shall be made if the Grandfather Status is to be recommended to the City
Council for approval:
      1.   The use, structure, lot, or sign was made nonconforming by a
rezoning action initiated by the City of Wellsville;
      2.   Prior to the effective date of the rezone in (1.) above, the use,
structure, lot, or sign was legally established in conformance with the Zoning
Code in effect at that time;
      3.   No zoning enforcement action is pending on the property;
      4.   If the use is one for which a valid business license is or was
required, such license has been continuously held for the entire period it has
been required.
      5.   The nonconformity has not expanded, enlarged or extended since the
date it became nonconforming.
      6.   The use, structure, lot, or sign has not been abandoned as specified
for each nonconformity in this Chapter.
   C.   City Council Action: The City Council shall take action on the
recommendation of the Planning Commission by approving, denying, or continuing
the application for further information and consideration. The City Council
shall make the same findings as the Planning Commission in Section
10-59-9 B1-6 if approval is granted and a Certificate of Grandfather Status is
to be issued.
   D.   Certificate Of Grandfather Status: If the application is approved by
the City Council a Certificate of Grandfather Status shall be issued to the
property owner. A Certificate of Grandfather Status shall be valid from the
date of issuance. A certificate may be issued indefinitely or be limited to a
specified time as a condition of approval. Conditional approval for a limited
time may be part of an amortization approach that allows the property owner to
recoup investment in the property over a specified period of time. At the end
of the time limit the property shall be made conforming. A certificate may be
issued subject to conditions reasonably related to making the current use
conform with feasible standards in the current zone. A certificate may be
revoked in the same manner and for the same reasons as provided in
Chapter 10-59. The use, structure, lot, or sign permitted by the certificate is
subject to restrictions on expansion, extension and change. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019)
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-60-1: Short Title
10-60-2: Purpose
10-60-3: Scope
10-60-4: Existing Law Continued
10-60-5: Criminal Prosecution Right
10-60-6: Effect Of Headings
10-60-7: Severability
10-60-8: Civil Liability
10-60-9: General Rules Of Interpretation
10-60-10: Definitions Applicable To Title Generally
10-60-11: Acts Include Causing, Aiding, And Abetting
10-60-12: Service Of Notice Requirements
10-60-13: General Enforcement Authority
10-60-14: Adoption Of Policy And Procedures
10-60-15: Authority To Inspect
10-60-16: False Information Or Refusal Prohibited
10-60-17: Failure To Obey A Subpoena
Part I. Administrative Enforcement Hearing Procedures
10-60-18: Administrative Enforcement Hearings
10-60-19: Request For Administrative Enforcement Hearing
10-60-20: Notification Of Administrative Enforcement Hearing
10-60-21: Appointment And Qualifications Of Hearing Examiner
10-60-22: Powers Of Hearing Examiner
10-60-23: Procedures At Administrative Enforcement Hearing
10-60-24: Failure To Attend Administrative Enforcement Hearing
10-60-25: Administrative Enforcement Order
10-60-26: Failure To Comply
10-60-27: Appeal
Part II. Administrative Abatement
10-60-28: Administrative Abatement
10-60-29: Notice Of Violation
10-60-30: Requesting Hearings
10-60-31: Failure To Correct
10-60-32: Inspections
10-60-33: Authority To Abate
10-60-34: Procedures For Abatement
10-60-35: Procedures For Recordation
10-60-36: Notice Of Compliance
10-60-37: Prohibition Against Issuance Of Municipal Permits
10-60-38: Civil Fees
Part III. Emergency Abatement
10-60-39: Emergency Abatement
10-60-40: Procedures
Part IV. Administrative Citations
10-60-41: Purpose
10-60-42: Administrative Citations
10-60-43: Contents Of Citation
10-60-44: Civil Fees Assessed
Part V. Costs And Fees
10-60-45: Purpose
10-60-46: Assessment Of Costs
10-60-47: Failure To Timely Pay Costs
10-60-48: Administrative Cost Fund
10-60-49: Allocation Of Civil Fees
10-60-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as "Administrative Enforcement." This Title shall
also be known as Title 10 Chapter 60 of the Wellsville City Code. It may be
cited and pleaded under either designation. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-2: PURPOSE:
The City Council finds that the enforcement of the Wellsville City Code and
applicable state codes is an important public activity. Code enforcement is
vital to the protection of the public's health, safety, welfare, and quality of
life. The City Council recognizes that code enforcement is effective only when
done fairly and without delay. The City Council further finds that an
enforcement system that allows a combination of judicial and administrative
remedies is effective in correcting violations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-3: SCOPE:
The provisions of this Title may be applied to all violations of the Wellsville
City Code or applicable state codes which occur within Wellsville City limits
and such territory outside Wellsville City limits over which the City has
jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional provision or law. This
Title establishes an additional remedy that may be used by the City to achieve
compliance with applicable codes. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-4: EXISTING LAW CONTINUED:
The provisions of this Title shall not invalidate any other title, chapter, or
ordinance of the Wellsville City Code, but shall be read in conjunction with
those titles, chapters, and ordinances and shall be used as additional remedy
for enforcement of violations thereof. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-5: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT:
The City shall have sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or
criminal judicial case or pursue an administrative enforcement action for the
violation of any of its ordinances or applicable code requirements. The
enactment of this Title shall not be construed to limit the City's right to
prosecute any violation as a criminal offense. If the City chooses to file both
an administrative action and criminal charges for the same violation on the
same day, no civil fees shall be assessed in the administrative action, but all
other remedies contained herein shall be available. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-6: EFFECT OF HEADINGS:
Title, chapter and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to
govern, limit, modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of
the provisions of this Title. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision of
this Title is, for any reason, held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this Title. The City Council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this Title and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, portions, or
provisions be declared invalid or unconstitutional. This section shall apply to
all amendments made to this Title. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-8: CIVIL LIABILITY:
By establishing performance standards or by establishing obligations to act, it
is the intent of the City Council that Wellsville City employees and officers
are exercising discretionary authority in pursuit of an essential governmental
function and that any such standards or obligations shall not be construed as
creating a ministerial duty for purposes of tort liability. Any civil wrong
(tort) caused by a responsible person shall be the sole responsibility of that
person(s). The City of Wellsville, it's employees or consultants shall not be
liable for the wrongful acts of others. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-9: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
For purposes of this Title:
   A.   Any gender includes the other gender.
   B.   "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
   C.   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
   D.   Words used in the present tense include the past and future tense, and
vice versa.
   E.   Words and phrases used in this Title and not specifically defined shall
be construed according to the context and ordinary usage of the language.
   F.   Unless otherwise specified, the terms "hereof, "herein", and similar
terms refer to this Title as a whole. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-10: DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO TITLE GENERALLY:
In the construction of this Title, the following words and phrases shall be as
defined as set forth in this section unless a different meaning is specifically
defined elsewhere in this Title and specifically stated to apply:
                                    A citation issued to a responsible person
ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION:            which gives notice of a violation and the
                                    civil fee for such violation.
                                    An order issued by a hearing examiner. The
                                    order may include an order to abate the
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ORDER:   violation, pay civil fees and
                                    administrative costs, or take any other
                                    action as authorized or required by this
                                    Title and applicable state codes.
                                    A hearing held pursuant to the procedures
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING: established by this Title and at the
                                    request of a responsible person.
                                    The City of Wellsville, Utah, including the
CITY:                               Mayor and all other employees of the
                                    administrative branch of the City.
CITY MANAGER:                       The City Manager as appointed by the City
                                    Council.
                                    Any person authorized by the City to
                                    enforce violations of the Wellsville City
                                    Code or applicable state codes including,
                                    but not limited to, zoning officers, police
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:               officers, building inspection officials,
                                    fire marshal, and animal control officers.
                                    Initially, the Planning Commission with the
                                    support of the City Manager shall be the
                                    Enforcement Official.
                                    A person appointed by the Mayor or his
HEARING EXAMINER:                   designee to preside over the administrative
                                    enforcement hearings.
                                    Any condition that creates a serious and
IMMINENT LIFE SAFETY HAZARD:        immediate danger to life, property, health,
                                    or public safety.
MAYOR:                              The Mayor of Wellsville City.
CITY COUNCIL:                       The City Council of Wellsville City.
                                    A document or form approved by the City
                                    Manager or his designee which indicates
NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE:               that a property complies with the
                                    requirements outlined in a notice of
                                    violation.
                                    A written notice that informs a responsible
NOTICE OF EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:      person of emergency abatement actions taken
                                    by the City and the costs of those actions,
                                    and orders payment for those costs.
                                    A written notice to a responsible person,
NOTICE OF ITEMIZED BILL FOR COSTS:  itemizing the City's costs and ordering
                                    payment of those costs.
                                    A written notice that informs a responsible
NOTICE OF VIOLATION:                person of code violations and orders
                                    certain steps to correct the violations.
                                    Any natural person, firm, joint venture,
                                    joint stock company, partnership,
                                    association, club, company, corporation,
PERSON:                             business trust, organization, or the
                                    manager, lessee, agent, sergeant, officer,
                                    or employee of any of them, or any other
                                    entity that is recognized by law as the
                                    subject of rights or duties.
                                    The record owner of real property as shown
PROPERTY OWNER:                     on the records of the Cache County
                                    Assessor.
                                    The person(s) determined by the City who is
                                    responsible for causing or maintaining a
                                    violation of the Wellsville Code or
                                    applicable state codes. The term
                                    "Responsible Person" shall include, but is
RESPONSIBLE PERSON:                 not limited to, a property owner, agent,
                                    tenant, lessee, occupant, architect,
                                    builder, contractor, or other person who
                                    individually or together with another
                                    person is responsible for the violation of
                                    any provision of the Wellsville City Code
                                    or applicable state codes.
                                    Includes handwritten, typewritten,
WRITTEN:                            photocopied, computer printed, or
                                    facsimile. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
 
10-60-11: ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING, AIDING, AND ABETTING:
Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this Title, it shall include
causing, permitting, aiding, or abetting such act or omission. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
10-60-12: SERVICE OF NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Whenever a notice is required to be given under this Title, the notice
shall be served by one of the following methods. The process for serving notice
will follow the order as prescribe below, beginning with item 1 and progressing
to the next method of serving notice depending on the responsiveness of the
responsible person(s) to comply.
      1.   Personal service;
      2.   Regular mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of a
responsible person;
      3.   Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property. The
form of the posted notice shall be approved by the City Manager; or
      4.   Published in a newspaper of general circulation.
   B.   Failure of a responsible person to actually receive notice shall not
affect the validity of any action taken hereunder if notice has been served in
the manner set forth above.
   C.   Service by regular mail in the manner set forth above shall be deemed
served on the fourth day after the date of mailing.
   D.   The failure of a person, other than a responsible person, to be served
notice in accordance with this section shall not affect the validity of any
proceeding taken hereunder. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-13: GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
Whenever an enforcement official finds that a violation of the Wellsville City
Code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, he may
undertake any of the procedures herein. The City Manager or his designee, the
City Manager, or any designated enforcement official shall have the authority
to gain compliance with the provisions of the Wellsville City Code and
applicable state codes subject to the provisions of this Title. Such authority
shall include the power to issue notices of violation and administrative
citations, inspect public and private property, abate nuisances on public and
private property, and to use any remedy available under this Title or law.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-14: ADOPTION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES:
The Mayor shall establish policies and procedures for the holding of
administrative enforcement hearings, the appointment of hearing examiners, and
the use of the administrative procedures herein by enforcement officials. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-15: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT:
Enforcement officials are hereby authorized, in accordance with applicable law,
to enter upon any property or premises to ascertain whether the provisions of
the Wellsville City Code or applicable state codes are being obeyed and to make
any reasonable examination or survey necessary to determine compliance with the
Wellsville City Code or applicable state codes. This may include the taking of
photographs, samples, or other physical evidence. All inspections, entries,
examinations, and surveys shall be done in a reasonable manner. If a property
owner or responsible person refuses to allow an enforcement official to enter
property, the enforcement official shall obtain a search warrant before
entering the property. The city manager will ensure that at least two (2)
officials are present for inspections. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-16: FALSE INFORMATION OR REFUSAL PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make a false statement or
refuse to give his name or address with intent to deceive or interfere with an
enforcement official when in the performance of his official duties under the
provisions of this Title. A violation of this section shall be a class B
misdemeanor. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-17: FAILURE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA:
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully refuse or fail to obey a
subpoena issued for an administrative enforcement hearing. A violation of this
section shall be a class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
PART 1. ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROCEDURES
10-60-18: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARINGS:
It is the purpose and the intent of the City Council that any responsible
person shall be afforded due process of law during the enforcement process. Due
process of law shall require adequate notice, an opportunity to request and to
participate in any hearing, and an adequate explanation of the reasons
justifying any resulting action. The following procedures are intended to
establish a forum to resolve and correct violations of the Wellsville City Code
and applicable state codes fairly, quickly, and efficiently while providing due
process. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-19: REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
   A.   A responsible person served with one of the following documents or
notices shall have the right to request an administrative enforcement hearing,
if the request is filed within ten (10) calendar days from the date of service
of one of the following notices:
      1.   Notice of violation;
      2.   Notice of itemized bill for costs;
      3.   Administrative citation; or
      4.   Notice of emergency abatement.
   B.   The request for an administrative enforcement hearing shall be made in
writing and submitted to the City Manager or his designee.
   C.   As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the
request for an administrative enforcement hearing, the appointed hearing
examiner shall schedule a date, time and place for the administrative
enforcement hearing.
   D.   Failure to request an administrative enforcement hearing within ten
(10) calendar days from the date of service of any of the notices in subsection
(A) above shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative
enforcement hearing and the right to an appeal. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-12: NOTIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
   A.   Written notice of the date, time, and place of the administrative
enforcement hearing shall be served to the responsible person as soon as
practicable prior to its date.
   B.   The notice shall be served by any of the methods of service set forth
in Section
10-60-12 of this Title. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-21: APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS OF HEARING EXAMINER:
   A.   The Mayor or his designee shall appoint hearing examiners to preside at
administrative enforcement hearings.
   B.   A Hearing Examiner:
      1.   Shall have no personal or financial interest in the matter for which
he is conducting a hearing; and
      2.   May be a City Employee if his/her primary responsibility is as the
Hearing Examiner, (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-22: POWERS OF HEARING EXAMINER:
   A.   A hearing examiner shall have authority to hold an administrative
enforcement hearing for violations of the Wellsville City Code and applicable
state codes.
   B.   A hearing examiner may continue a hearing for good cause shown by one
of the parties or if the hearing examiner independently determines that due
process has not been adequately afforded to such party.
   C.   At the request of any party to an administrative enforcement hearing, a
hearing examiner may sign subpoenas for witnesses, documents, and other
evidence where the attendance of the witness or the admission of evidence is
deemed necessary by the hearing examiner to decide issues at the hearing. All
costs related to the subpoena including witness and mileage fees, shall be
borne by the party requesting the subpoena.
   D.   A hearing examiner has continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter
of an administrative enforcement hearing for the purposes of granting a
continuance; ordering compliance by issuing an administrative enforcement
order; ensuring compliance of that order, which includes authorizing the City
to enter and abate a violation; modifying an administrative enforcement order;
or, where extraordinary circumstances exist, granting a new hearing.
   E.   A hearing examiner may require a responsible person to post a
performance bond to ensure compliance with an administrative enforcement order.
   F.   A hearing examiner shall not make determinations as to the existence of
nonconforming rights. If a responsible person claims a nonconforming right as a
defense, the hearing examiner shall continue the administrative enforcement
hearing and shall refer the matter to the Wellsville City Board of Adjustment
for a determination as to the existence of the nonconforming right. The Board
of Adjustment's decision shall be binding on the hearing examiner. The
responsible person shall bear the costs of the appeal to the Board of
Adjustment. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-23: PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
   A.   Administrative enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in
nature. Formal rules of evidence and discovery shall not apply; however, an
informal exchange of discovery may be required. Any such request shall be in
writing. Failure to request discovery shall not be a basis for a continuance.
Complainant information shall not be disclosed or released unless the
complainant is a witness at the hearing. The procedure and format of the
administrative enforcement hearing shall follow duly adopted policies and
procedures.
   B.   The City shall bear the burden of proof to establish the existence of a
violation of the Wellsville City Code or applicable state codes.
   C.   Such proof shall be established by a preponderance of the evidence.
   D.   Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and
present evidence in support of his case. A written declaration signed under
penalty of perjury may be accepted in lieu of a personal appearance. Testimony
may be given by telephone or other electronic means.
   E.   All administrative enforcement hearings shall be open to the public and
shall be recorded by audiotape. In the discretion of the hearing examiner,
administrative enforcement hearings may be held at the location of the
violation.
   F.   The responsible person shall have the right to be represented by an
attorney. If an attorney will be representing a responsible person at a
hearing, notice of the attorney's name, address, and telephone number shall be
given to the City at least one (1) day prior to the hearing. If such notice is
not given, the hearing may be continued at the City's request, and all costs of
the continuance shall be assessed to the responsible person.
   G.   The burden to prove any raised defenses shall be upon the party raising
any such defense. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-24: FAILURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
A responsible person who fails to appear at an administrative enforcement
hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to such hearing, the
adjudication of issues related to the hearing, and the right to appeal,
provided that prior notice of the hearing has been given as provided in Section
10-60-12. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-25: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ORDER:
   A.   A responsible person and the City may enter into a stipulated
agreement, which shall be signed by both parties. Such agreement shall be
entered as an administrative enforcement order. Entry of such agreement shall
constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative enforcement hearing and
the right to appeal.
   B.   After all evidence and testimony are presented, the hearing examiner
shall issue a written administrative enforcement order that affirms or rejects
the notice or citation.
   C.   A hearing examiner may issue an administrative enforcement order that
requires a responsible person to cease from violating the Wellsville City Code
or applicable state codes and to take any necessary corrective action.
   D.   A hearing examiner may order the City to enter the property and abate
all violations, including the removal of animals in violation of an applicable
code requirement.
   E.   A hearing examiner may revoke the right as provided in the Wellsville
City Code to possess animals, a kennel permit, or an animal license.
   F.   As part of an administrative enforcement order, a hearing examiner may
establish specific deadlines for the payment of fees and costs, and condition
the total or partial assessment of civil fees on the responsible person's
ability to take necessary corrective actions by specified deadlines.
   G.   A hearing examiner may issue an administrative enforcement order
imposing civil fees. Such fees shall continue to accrue until the responsible
person complies with the hearing examiner's decision and corrects the
violation.
   H.   A hearing examiner may schedule subsequent review hearings as may be
necessary or as requested by the City to ensure compliance with an
administrative enforcement order.
   I.   A hearing examiner may order a responsible person to post a performance
bond to ensure compliance with an administrative enforcement order. The value
of the bond shall be one hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimated cost to
comply or abate which ever it greater.
   J.   An administrative enforcement order shall become final on the date of
signing by a hearing examiner.
   K.   An administrative enforcement order shall be served on all parties by
any one of the methods listed in Section
10-60-12 of this Title. When required by this Title, the City Manager shall
record the administrative enforcement order with the Cache County Recorder's
Office.
   L.   After a hearing examiner has issued an administrative enforcement
order, the City Manager or his designee and the City Manager shall monitor the
matter for compliance with the administrative enforcement order. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
10-60-26: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
It shall be unlawful for any responsible person to fail to comply with the
terms and deadlines set forth in a final administrative enforcement order. A
violation of this section shall be a class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-
2019)
10-60-27: APPEAL:
   A.   Any responsible person adversely affected by a final administrative
enforcement order made in the exercise of the provisions of this Title may file
a petition for review in the district court.
   B.   The petition shall be barred unless it is filed within thirty (30) days
after the administrative enforcement order is final.
   C.   In the petition, the plaintiff may only allege that the administrative
enforcement order was arbitrary, capricious or illegal.
   D.   The court shall:
      1.   Presume that the administrative enforcement order is valid;
      2.   Review the record to determine whether the order was arbitrary,
capricious, or illegal; and
      3.   Affirm the administrative enforcement order if it is supported by
substantial evidence in the record;
   E.   The record of the proceedings including minutes, findings, orders and,
if available, a true and correct transcript of the proceeding shall be
transmitted to the reviewing court. If the proceeding was tape recorded, a
transcript of such tape recording shall be deemed a true and correct transcript
for purposes of this subsection.
   F.   If there is a record, court review shall be limited to the record of
the proceeding. The court may not accept or consider any evidence outside such
record unless that evidence was offered to the hearing examiner and the court
determines that it was improperly excluded by the hearing examiner. The court
may call witnesses and take evidence if there is no record.
   G.   The filing of a petition does not stay execution of an administrative
enforcement order. Before filing a petition, a responsible person may request
the hearing examiner to stay an administrative enforcement order. Upon receipt
of a request to stay, the hearing examiner may order the administrative
enforcement order to be stayed pending district court review if the hearing
examiner finds such stay to be in the best interest of the City. (Ord. 2019-04,
10-16-2019)
PART II. ADMINISTRATIVE ABATEMENT
10-60-28: ADMINISTRATIVE ABATEMENT:
Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist in violation of any
provision of the Wellsville City Code or applicable state codes may be abated
by the City pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-29: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   Whenever an enforcement official determines that a violation of the
Wellsville City Code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to
exist, a notice of violation may be issued to the responsible person. The
notice of violation shall include the following information:
      1.   Name of the responsible person.
      2.   Street address of violation.
      3.   Date violation observed.
      4.   All code sections violated and a description of the condition that
violates the applicable code.
      5.   All remedial action required to permanently correct any violation,
which may include corrections, repairs, demolition, removal, or other
appropriate action.
      6.   Specific date to correct the violation set forth in a notice of
violation, which date shall be at least ten (10) days from the date of service.
      7.   Explanation of the consequences should the responsible person fail
to comply with the terms and deadlines as prescribed in the notice of
violation, which may include, but is not limited to criminal prosecution; civil
fees; revocation of permits; recordation of the notice of violation;
withholding of municipal permits; abatement of the violation; costs;
administrative fees; and any other legal remedies.
      8.   Statement that civil fees will begin to accrue immediately on
expiration of the date to correct violation.
      9.   The amount of the civil fee for each violation and a statement that
the civil fee shall accrue daily until the violation is corrected.
      10.   Demand that the responsible person cease and desist from further
action causing the violation and commence and complete all action to correct
violations as directed by the City.
      11.   Procedures to request an administrative enforcement hearing, and
consequences for failure to request such hearing.
      12.   Statement that when the violation is brought into compliance the
responsible person must request an inspection.
   B.   The notice of violation shall be served by one of the methods of
service listed in Section
10-60-12 of this Title. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-30: REQUESTING HEARINGS:
A responsible person shall have the right to an administrative enforcement
hearing. A request for such hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
within ten (10) days from the date of service of the notice of violation.
Failure to request an administrative enforcement hearing as provided shall
constitute a waiver to an administrative enforcement hearing and a waiver of
the right to appeal. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-31: FAILURE TO CORRECT:
It shall be unlawful for any responsible person to fail to comply with the
terms and deadlines set forth in a notice of violation. A violation of this
section shall be a class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-32: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the responsible person to request an inspection when a
violation has been corrected. If no inspection is requested, it shall be deemed
prima facie evidence that the violation remains uncorrected. If more than one
inspection is necessary, an inspection fee of thirty dollars ($30) shall be
assessed for each subsequent inspection. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-33: AUTHORITY TO ABATE:
The City Manager or his designee is hereby authorized to enter upon any
property or premises to abate a violation of the Wellsville City Code and
applicable state codes as set forth in Section
10-60-15. The City Manager or his designee shall assess all costs for abatement
to the responsible person and may use any remedy available under the law to
collect such costs. If additional abatement is necessary within two (2) years,
treble costs shall be assessed against the responsible person for the actual
abatement. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-34: PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT:
   A.   Non-emergency violations may be abated after thirty (30) days written
notice. The violation may be abated by City personnel or by a private
contractor acting under the direction of the City.
   B.   City personnel or a private contractor may enter upon private property
in a reasonable manner to abate a violation as specified in the notice of
violation or administrative enforcement order.
   C.   If a responsible person abates the violation before the City abates the
violation pursuant to a notice of violation or administrative enforcement
order, City Manager or his designee may nevertheless assess all costs actually
incurred by the City against the responsible person.
   D.   When abatement is completed, the City Manager or his designee shall
prepare a notice of itemized bill for costs.
   E.   The City Manager or his designee serve the notice of itemized bill for
costs by registered mail to the last known address of the responsible person.
The notice shall demand full payment within twenty (20) days to the Wellsville
City Finance Department.
   F.   The responsible person shall have the right to an administrative
enforcement hearing to contest the notice of itemized bill for costs. A request
for such hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed within ten (10) days
from the date of service of the notice of itemized bill for costs. Failure to
request an administrative enforcement hearing as provided shall constitute a
waiver to such hearing and a waiver of the right to appeal. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-
16-2019)
10-60-35: PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION:
   A.   For violations of Title 15 and 10 of the Wellsville City Code and any
other applicable code, when a notice of violation has been served on a
responsible person, and the violation remains uncorrected after the date to
correct set forth in the notice of violation, and a request for an
administrative enforcement hearing has not been timely requested, the City
Manager or his designee may record the notice of violation with the Cache
County Recorder's Office.
   B.   If an administrative enforcement hearing is held, and an administrative
enforcement order is issued, the City Manager or his designee shall record the
administrative enforcement order with the Cache County Recorder's Office.
   C.   The recordation of an administrative enforcement order shall not be
deemed an encumbrance of the property, but shall merely place interested
parties on notice of any continuing violation found upon the property.
   D.   Notice of the recordation shall be served on the responsible person and
the property owner pursuant to any of the methods of service set forth in
Section
10-60-12 of this Title. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-36: NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   When a violation is corrected, a responsible person shall request an
inspection from the director.
   B.   When the City Manager receives such request, the City Manager or his
designee shall reinspect the property as soon as practicable to determine
whether the violation has been corrected, and whether all necessary permits
have been issued and final inspections have been performed as required by
applicable codes.
   C.   The City Manager or his designee shall serve a notice of compliance to
the responsible person and property owner in the manner provided in Section
10-60-12. herein if the City Manager or his designee determines that:
      1.   All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation or
administrative enforcement order have been corrected;
      2.   All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;
      3.   All assessed civil fees have been paid; and
      4.   All assessed administrative fees and costs have been paid. (Ord.
2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-37: PROHIBITION AGAINST ISSUANCE OF MUNICIPAL PERMITS:
The City shall withhold business licenses; permits for kennels; or permits for
any alteration, repair, or construction pertaining to any existing or new
structures or signs on the property, or any permits pertaining to the use and
development of the real property or the structure where a violation is located.
The City shall withhold such permits until a notice of compliance has been
issued by the City Manager or his designee. The City shall not withhold permits
necessary to obtain a notice of compliance or to correct serious health and
safety violations. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-38: CIVIL FEES:
If a responsible person fails to correct a violation by the correction date
listed in a notice of violation or in an administrative enforcement order,
civil fees shall be owed to the City as follows:
   A.   The civil fee for each violation shall be fifty dollars ($50).
   B.   An additional civil fee of fifty dollars ($50) for each and every
subsequent day of violation for each separate violation until the violation is
corrected.
   C.   The maximum amount of civil fees accruable for each violation listed in
a notice of violation or in an administrative enforcement order shall be one
thousand dollars ($1,000).
   D.   Payment of any civil fee shall not excuse any failure to correct a
violation of the reoccurrence of the violation, nor shall it bar further
enforcement action by the City.
   E.   Civil fees shall be paid to the Wellsville City Recorder. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
PART III. EMERGENCY ABATEMENT
10-60-39: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
   A.   Whenever the City Manager or his designee or the City Manager or his
designee determines that an imminent life safety hazard exists that requires
immediate correction or elimination, they shall exercise the following powers
without prior notice to the responsible person:
      1.   Order the immediate vacation of any tenants, and prohibit occupancy
until all repairs are completed.
      2.   Post the premises as unsafe, substandard, or dangerous;
      3.   Board, fence, or secure the building or site;
      4.   Raze and grade that portion of the building or site to prevent
further collapse, and remove any hazard to the general public;
      5.   Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any
imminent life safety hazard; or
      6.   Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the emergency.
   B.   The City Manager or his designee may, based on probable cause, enter
property without a search warrant or court order to accomplish the above-listed
acts. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-40: PROCEDURES:
   A.   The City Manager or his designee shall document the life or safety
hazard prior to emergency abatement. The City Manager or his designee shall
pursue only the minimum level of correction or abatement as necessary to
eliminate the immediacy of a hazard. Costs incurred by the City during the
emergency abatement process shall be assessed and recovered against the
responsible person.
   B.   The City Manager or his designee may also pursue any other
administrative or judicial remedy to abate any remaining violations.
   C.   After an emergency abatement, the City shall, within ten (10) days
serve notice of itemized bill for costs to the responsible person for the
abatement action taken. Such notice shall include a description of the imminent
life safety hazard.
   D.   A responsible person has the right to an administrative enforcement
hearing. A request for such hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
within ten (10) days from the date of service of the notice of itemized bill
for costs. Failure to request an administrative enforcement hearing as provided
herein shall constitute a waiver to an administrative enforcement hearing and a
waiver to the right to appeal. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
PART IV. ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
10-60-41: PURPOSE:
The Wellsville City Council finds that an appropriate method of enforcement for
violation of the Wellsville City Code and applicable state codes is by
administrative citation. The procedures established in this chapter shall be an
alternative and in addition to those procedures set forth in other chapters of
the Wellsville City Code or state law. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-42: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS:
   A.   Upon discovering a violation of the Wellsville City Code or applicable
state codes that does not necessitate a notice of violation an enforcement
official may issue an administrative citation to the responsible person.
   B.   The administrative citation shall be served in the manner prescribed in
Section
10-60-12.
   C.   The enforcement official shall attempt to obtain the signature of the
responsible person on the administrative citation when personally served. When
a responsible person refuses or fails to sign the administrative citation, such
failure or refusal shall not affect the validity of the citation and subsequent
proceedings. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-43: CONTENTS OF CITATION:
Each administrative citation shall contain the following information:
   A.   The date and location of all violations;
   B.   Code sections violated;
   C.   The amount of civil fee imposed for each violation;
   D.   An explanation of how the civil fee shall be paid, the time period in
which the civil fee shall be paid, and the consequences of failure to pay the
civil fee;
   E.   Identify the right to and the procedures for requesting an
administrative enforcement hearing;
   F.   The signature of the enforcement official and, if possible, the
signature of the responsible person. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-44: CIVIL FEES ASSESSED:
   A.   Civil fees shall be due and payable immediately upon service of an
administrative citation.
   B.   The civil fee for each violation listed on the administrative citation
shall be twenty five dollars ($25) if paid within ten (10) days of service.
   C.   Civil fees shall be double if paid after ten (10) days but within
twenty (20) days of service.
   D.   Civil fees shall be triple if paid after twenty (20) days of service.
   E.   Payment of any civil fee shall not excuse a failure to correct a
violation or any reoccurrence of the violation, nor shall it bar further
enforcement action by the City.
   F.   Civil fees shall be paid to the Wellsville City Recorder. (Ord. 2019-
04, 10-16-2019)
PART V. COSTS AND FEES
10-60-45: PURPOSE:
   A.   The Wellsville City Council finds that the costs incurred by
enforcement officials and other City personnel to correct violations should be
recovered from the responsible person.
   B.   The Wellsville City Council further finds that the assessment of costs
is an appropriate method to recover expenses incurred for actual costs of
abating violations, re-inspection fees, filing fees, attorney fees, hearing
examiner fees, title search, and any additional actual costs incurred by the
City for each individual case. The assessment and collection of costs shall not
preclude the imposition of any judicial fees or fines for violations of the
Wellsville City Code or applicable state codes. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-46: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   Whenever actual costs are incurred by the City to enforce the
Wellsville City Code and applicable state codes, such costs shall be assessed
against the responsible person.
   B.   The City Manager or his designee shall serve the responsible person
with a notice of itemized bill for costs.
   C.   The responsible person shall have a right to an administrative
enforcement hearing. A request for such hearing shall be in writing and shall
be filed within ten (10) days from the date of service of the notice of
itemized bill for costs. Failure to request an administrative enforcement
hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver to an administrative enforcement
hearing and a waiver of the right to appeal. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-47: FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY COSTS:
The failure of any person to pay assessed costs by the deadline specified in an
invoice shall result in a late fee calculated at the rate of one and one-half
percent (1-1/2%) per month. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-48: ADMINISTRATIVE COST FUND:
Administrative costs and fees collected pursuant to this Title shall be
deposited in a fund, as established by the City for the enhancement of the
City's code enforcement efforts and to reimburse City departments for costs
associated with the administration of this Title. Fees and costs deposited in
this fund shall be allocated pursuant to the City's budget process and as
authorized by applicable law. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-60-49: ALLOCATION OF CIVIL FEES:
Civil fees collected pursuant to this Title shall be deposited in the
Wellsville City general fund. Civil fees deposited in the general fund may be
allocated pursuant to the City's budget process and as authorized by applicable
law. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 61
WORDS DEFINED
SECTION:
10-61-1: Defining Words
10-61-2: Use Of General Terms
10-61-3: Use Of “Shall” And “May”
10-61-4: Use Of “And” And “Or”
10-61-5: Sources Of Definitions
10-61-1: DEFINING WORDS:
Words used in the Land Use Regulations have their normal dictionary meaning
unless they are defined in
Chapter 10-62. Words defined in
Chapter 10-62 are defined for the purposes used in this Title only. These words
have the specific meaning stated, unless the context clearly suggests another
meaning. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-61-2: USE OF GENERAL TERMS:
Information about the use of general terms and conventions of language is
contained in Section
10-61-3 and Section
10-61-4. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-61-3: USE OF "SHALL" AND "MAY":
   A.   "Shall" Means Mandatory: The word "shall" means that the directives or
requirements are mandatory and may not be waived or modified. If used within
the text, "will" and "must" also mean "shall."
   B.   "May" Means Permissive: The word "may" means that the directives or
requirements are permissive and are imposed at the option of the decision-
maker. "Can" and "strive" also mean "may." (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-61-4: USE OF "AND" AND "OR":
   A.   "And" means that each item identified shall be required.
   B.   "Or" means any combination of one or more of the identified items may
be required. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
10-61-5: SOURCES OF DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Definitions Within the Land Use Regulations: Words defined with the
Land Use Regulations shall have the meaning as assigned in this code.
   B.   Definitions Within Other Titles of the Wellsville City Code: Words not
defined within Title 10, Wellsville City Code, Land Use Regulations, which are
defined in other Titles of the Wellsville City Code shall have the meanings as
established within the Wellsville City Code. In the event a word is defined in
both Title 10, Wellsville City Code, Land Use Regulations and other Titles of
the Wellsville City Code, the definition within Title 10, Wellsville City Code,
Land Use Regulations shall apply to word usage within this Title.
   C.   Definition Sources for Words Not Defined Anywhere Within the Wellsville
City Code:
      1.   Development terms not defined within any Title of the Wellsville
City Code shall have the meaning contained with The New Illustrated Book of
Development Definitions, by Moskowitz and Lindbloom, published by the Center
for Urban Policy Research of Rutgers University, Piscataway, New Jersey; 1995
edition.
      2.   Terms not defined in any cited sources shall have the meaning as
established in the current edition of the Webster's Encyclopedic Unabridged
Dictionary of the English Language, published by Gramercy Press, 1996 edition.
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019)
CHAPTER 62
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-62-1: Definitions
10-62-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words in this chapter are established as specific meanings
for this Title only. Words with specific meaning in the Land Use Regulations
are as follows:
                A structure that is subordinate to and serves a primary use or structure; is
ACCESSORY       subordinate to the primary use or structure served; contributes to the comfort,
STRUCTURE:      convenience or necessity of occupants of the primary use or structure served; and
                is located on the same lot and in the same zoning district as the primary use.
ACCESSORY USE:  A use or activity that is a subordinate part of a primary use and clearly
                incidental to a primary use.
ACCOMMODATIONS, Facilities offering transient lodging accommodations to the general public and
LODGING, BED    which may include additional facilities, such as restaurants, meeting rooms,
AND BREAKFAST:  entertainment, personal services, and recreation facilities.
Bed and
Breakfast       Overnight accommodations often or fewer rooms that may also serve one or more
or Bed and      meals limited to registered guests.
Breakfast Inn:
                A facility offering transient sleeping rooms and providing additional services
Hotel:          within the same building, such as restaurant(s), conference or meeting rooms,
                banquet facilities, and full guest services, such as room service or a gift shop.
                An establishment providing sleeping accommodations and limited support services,
Motel:          such as no room service, no in-facility eating establishment, and limited
                amenities. Motels tend to be no more than three stories high, but may be higher.
ADULT-ORIENTED  See Sales and Service.
BUSINESS:
                A business to which a class of participants attend on a periodic or regular basis
AEROBIC STUDIO: for purposes of exercise, weight training, fitness training, and participation in
                related activities. An aerobic studio may also include the retail sales of
                products related to its services.
AFFORDABLE      Safe and decent housing with a sales price or rent that is within income
HOUSING:        limitations for households defined as low and moderate income by current Federal
                or State definitions.
                The production, keeping, or maintenance, for sale, lease or personal use, of
                plants and animals useful to society, including and not limited to: forages and
                sod crops; grains and seed crops, dairy animals and dairy products, poultry and
                poultry products; livestock, including beef, cattle, sheep, swine, horses,
AGRICULTURE:    ponies, mules, or goats or any mutations or hybrids thereof, including the
                breeding and grazing of any or all such animals; bees and apiary products; fur
                animals; trees and forest products; fruits of all kinds, including grapes, nuts,
                and berries; vegetables; nursery, floral, ornamental, and greenhouse products; or
                lands devoted to a soil conservation or forestry management program.
ALTERNATIVE OR  Halfway houses, work release centers or any other domiciliary facilities for
POST            persons released from any penal or correctional facility but still in the custody
INCARCERATION   of the city, county or public agency OR youth care centers or other facilities
FACILITY:       authorized to accept youth offenders.
AMATEUR RADIO   Any tower or antenna owned and operated by an amateur radio operator licensed by
FACILITY:       the Federal Communications Commission.
AMUSEMENT,
COMMERCIAL      See Sales and Service.
INDOOR:
ANIMAL CLINIC:  See Sales and Service.
ANTENNA:        A transmitting or receiving device used in telecommunications that radiates or
                receives radio signals.
ANTIQUE SHOP    See Sales and Service.
APPEAL:         An administrative procedure that requests relief from a decision by a designated
                hearing officer, commission, committee, or board.
APPLIANCE       See Sales and Service.
STORE:
APPLICANT:      The person making application for a project review. See also "proponent."
                Application means:
                A.   Application in General: A submission of materials that is required to be
                received by the City prior to commencing any action that results in the issuance
                of a permit or the granting of an approval or conditional approval. The contents
                of an application are a combination of the materials that are required by
                statute, materials that are specified in this title, and materials that may be
                required as a part of the City's administrative process. A "petition" is also an
APPLICATION:    application.
                B.   Complete Application: An application shall not be considered complete until
                all the required materials have been received and verified as to content. A
                complete application includes:
                   1.   Payment of required application fees and charges, and
                   2.   All maps, drawings, and materials required by statute or ordinance, and
                   3.   All of the maps, drawings, and information specified in the City's
                administrative procedures prepared in a neat, legible manner.
ARCHITECT:      An architect licensed by the State of Utah.
ART OBJECT      See Sales and Service.
SALES:
ART STUDIO:     See Sales and Service.
ART SUPPLY      See Sales and Service.
STORE:
ASSISTED LIVING See Group Living.
CENTER:
BACK-OUT        A parking configuration that requires vehicles to maneuver directly from the
PARKING:        parking space onto a public street without a driveway.
BAKERY:         See Sales and Service.
BANK:           See Office.
BARBER SHOP:    See Sales and Service.
BASE ZONE OR
BASE ZONING     See "Zone, base".
DISTRICT:
BASEMENT:       A portion of a building partly below ground and not having more than half of its
                height above the level of the adjoining ground.
BEAUTY SHOP:    See Sales and Service.
BERM:           A linear earthen mound.
                A sign, land use, vehicle, trailer, or structure that directs attention to a
BILLBOARD:      business, commodity, service, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered at a
                location other than the premises on which the sign is located.
                A unit of land bounded by streets or a combination of streets, public land,
BLOCK:          railroad rights-of-way, waterways, or any other barrier to the continuity of
                development.
BLOCK FRONTAGE: All of the property fronting on a street that is between intersecting streets, or
                that is between a street and a water feature, or end of a dean end street.
BOARD OF        The three (3)-person Board established in Wellsville City Code Chapter 2.58.
APPEALS:
BOARD OF        The five (5)-person Board established in Wellsville City Code Chapter 2.54.
ADJUSTMENT:
                A dwelling unit or part thereof in which, for compensation, lodging and meals are
BOARDING HOUSE, provided. A lodging house is a boarding house in which meals are not provided.
LODGING HOUSE:  The length of stay in a boarding house or lodging house is thirty (30) or more
                days.
BOOT REPAIR:    See Sales and Service.
BOUNDARY LINE   Boundary line adjustment or Lot line adjustment means the relocation of the
ADJUSTMENT:     property boundary line between two (2) adjoining lots with the consent of the
                owners of record.
BREW            See Sales and Service.
RESTAURANT:
BUILDABLE ACRE, See Gross Buildable Acre.
GROSS:
                That portion of an existing or proposed lot that is free of building
BUILDABLE AREA: restrictions. For the purpose of this ordinance, a buildable area does not
                contain any setback areas, easements, and similar building restrictions, and
                cannot contain any land specified in Section 10-31-1.
BUILDING        See "Building Coverage."
FOOTPRINT:
BUILDING        The portion of a site covered by buildings or other roofed structures, including
COVERAGE:       eaves. "Building Coverage" also means "building footprint."
BUILDING:       A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the housing or
                enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
BUILDING LINE:  A line running parallel to a lot line that is the same distance from the lot line
                as the closest portion of a building on the site.
BUS PASSENGER:  See Sales and Service.
STATION
CABLE           Any cable television head end or hub towers and antennas used solely for cable
TELEVISION      television services.
FACILITIES:
CAFETERIA:      See Sales and Service.
CAMERA SHOP:    See Sales and Service.
CAMPING SUPPLY
STORE IN RV     See Sales and Service.
PARK:
CAREGIVER:      See Group Living.
CARPET SALES,
RETAIL AND      See Sales and Service.
WHOLESALE:
CART CORRAL:    An area designated within a parking lot where persons place shopping carts,
                dollies, hand trucks, pallet jacks, and other similar equipment.
CAR WASH:       See Sales and Service.
CERTIFICATE OF  Certification language as required by this title and Utah Code incorporated onto
APPROVAL:       any deed or instrument creating a new lot by metes and bounds description or
                other such description.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE The elected Mayor of the City of Wellsville.
OFFICER:
CLINIC:         See Office.
CLOTHING:       See Sales and Service.
CLEAR TRUNK:    The distance between the top of the root ball along the vertical trunk or trunks
                of a tree to the point at which lateral branching or fronds begin.
CLUB, PRIVATE:  See Sales and Service.
CLUSTER         A cluster or compact subdivision.
DEVELOPMENT:
COLLECTIBLE     See Sales and Service.
SHOP:
                Independent institutions of higher learning offering general studies leading to a
COLLEGES:       degree; a part of a university offering a specialized group of courses; an
                institution offering instruction usually in a professional, vocational, or
                technical field.
COMMERCIAL DAY  See also Family Day Care and Family Group Day Care. Day Care and preschool uses
CARE (10 OR     provide care, protection and supervision for children or adults on a regular
MORE CLIENTS):  basis away from their primary residence for less than twenty four (24) hours per
                day.
COMMERCIAL      See School, Vocational.
SCHOOL:
COMMERCIAL      See Storage, Self-Service.
STORAGE UNIT:
                Lands, structures, infrastructure, or facilities within a project that is owned
COMMON AREA:    in undivided interest by the property owners, a condominium association, or other
                entity in common.
COMMUNITY       A building used for recreation, social, educational, or cultural activities, open
CENTER:         to the public or a designated part of the public. A community center is usually
                owned and operated by a public or nonprofit group or agency.
                A use of a public, a nonprofit, or a charitable nature providing a local service
                to people of the community. Generally the service is provided onsite or there are
                employees at the site on a regular basis. The service is always ongoing and not
COMMUNITY       for special events. The use may provide special counseling, education, or
SERVICE:        training of a public, nonprofit or charitable nature. "Community service" does
                not include facilities or uses which house or serve adjudicated youth offenders,
                proctor homes, group homes serving as transitional facilities for criminally
                convicted persons, or other group homes as defined by State or Federal law or
                regulations (see "group home").
                A building or group of buildings, in which dwelling units, offices, or floor area
CONDOMINIUM:    are owned individually, and the structure, common areas, and facilities are owned
                by all the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.
CONFECTIONERY   See Sales and Service.
SHOP:
CONTRACTORS     See Warehouse, Freight Movement.
STORAGE YARD:
CONTRACTOR      See Industrial Service.
SUPPLY STORE:
CONVALESCENT    See Group Living.
CENTER:
CONVENIENCE
MARKET, NO      See Sales and Service.
GASOLINE:
COPY CENTER :   See Sales and Service.
CREDIT UNION:   See Office.
                Land classified under
CRITICAL LANDS: Chapter 10-34 of this Title. The title of critical lands is used synonymously
                with Critical lands and each title shall mean the same.
DAIRY PRODUCTS: See Sales and Service.
DANCEHALL:      See Sales and Service.
DANCE STUDIO:   See Sales and Service.
DAY CARE:       See Family Day Care.
DAYS:           Calendar days, unless specifically stated as working days.
DECISION-MAKING
BODY OR         A person or group authorized in the Land Use Regulations to conduct land use
DECISION        reviews and take action on the matter under review.
MAKERS:
                The number of dwelling units per acre of land area. Density may also be expressed
                as the amount of land area per dwelling unit. Unless otherwise stated, any
DENSITY:        reference to density means "gross" density calculation. Density is calculated as
                a factor of number of units + acreage. For example, a project containing twenty
                (20) units located on five (5) acres has a gross density of four (4) units per
                acre (20 + 5 = 4) (See also "Gross Buildable Acre")
DENTAL OFFICE:  See Office.
DEPARTMENT:     The City. Other departments, divisions, or agencies are referenced by name.
DEPARTMENT      See Sales and Service.
STORE:
                Facilities designed to detain incarcerated individuals who are awaiting trial but
DETENTION       who were not granted the ability to bond out by the court, or who have been
FACILITIES:     unable to meet bond requirements. Detention facilities may also be used for
                individuals who are ordered to serve certain types of shorter sentences.
                Alteration of the land surface by:
                A.   Grading, filling, cutting or other earth-moving activity involving more than
                fifty (50) cubic yards on any lot;
                B.   The removal of three or more living trees of over six inch (6") caliper or
DEVELOPMENT:    the removal of five percent of the total number of living (or dead) trees over
                six inch (6") caliper, whichever is greater, on any lot within any one calendar
                year;
                C.   Construction of a building, road, driveway, parking area, or other
                structure;
                D.   Bridging or Culverting of any stream.
DEVELOPMENT     The committee of members of the City staff and other agencies as invited or
REVIEW          convened to review development proposals prior to permits being issued or reports
COMMITTEE:      being prepared for decision-making bodies.
DIAMETER BREAST The diameter of a tree measured at 4.5 feet above grade.
HEIGHT (DBH):
DISCOUNT STORE: See Sales and Service.
DISCRETIONARY   An action of the City that may be approved, conditionally approved, or denied at
APPROVAL:       the discretion of the decision-making body upon making appropriate findings or
                utilizing adopted standards or policies.
                A permit issued by the City when the City has the discretion to approve the
DISCRETIONARY   permit as requested, approve it in a modified form with conditions or other
PERMIT:         changes generated by application review, or to deny the permit on the basis of
                reasons or findings of fact.
DISTRICT:       Same as "Zoning District."
DORMITORIES:    See Group Living.
DRAMA STUDIO:   See Sales and Service.
DRIPLINE:       The natural outside end of the branches of a tree or shrub projected vertically
                to the ground.
DROUGHT-        Trees, shrubs, groundcovers and other vegetation, excluding prohibited or
TOLERANT        controlled species, which is classified as very or moderately drought-tolerant in
VEGETATION:     accepted horticultural or landscaping publications.
DRUG STORE:     See Sales and Service.
DRY CLEANER:    See Sales and Service.
                One or more rooms, designed, occupied, or intended for occupancy as a separate
DWELLING UNIT:  living quarter with cooking, sleeping, and sanitary facilities provided within
                the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of the occupants.
ELECTRIC
FUELING         See Vehicle Service.
FACILITIES:
ENTERTAINMENT   Activities and structures that draw large numbers of people to specific events or
EVENT, MAJOR:   shows. Activities are generally of a spectator nature.
ESSENTIAL       Critical visual land forms, including city ridgelines and views of Wellsville's
VIEWS:          many unique geologic and agricultural features and the existing landscape fabric
                of the city's hillside areas.
                When referring to a City decision-maker, means the City Engineer, a registered
ENGINEER:       professional engineer licensed by the State of Utah, if so delegated by the City
                Manager.
EXERCISE        See Sales and Service.
STUDIO:
                One (1) or more persons related by blood, adoption, or marriage, living and
                cooking together as a single housekeeping unit, exclusive of household servants;
                or a number of unrelated adult persons, but not exceeding two and their children
                related by blood, adoption, or marriage, living and cooking together as a single
FAMILY:         housekeeping unit, shall be deemed to constitute a family.
                Students who are visiting a family for the purpose of attending grades
                kindergarten through high school are considered temporary family members and
                therefore part of a family even though they may or may not be related by blood,
                adoption, or marriage. Students must be actively attending a school grade K-12
                and living with a family related by blood, adoption, or marriage.
FAMILY DAYCARE  Uses providing care, protection and supervision for children or adults on a
(1-8 CLIENTS):  regular basis away from their primary residence for less than twenty four (24)
                hours per day, unless approved by Conditional Use Permit.
FAMILY GROUP    Uses providing care, protection and supervision for children or adults on a
DAYCARE (9-16   regular basis away from their primary residence for less than twenty four (24)
CLIENTS):       hours per day, unless approved by Conditional Use Permit.
FLOOD HAZARD:   A request for a review of the City engineer's interpretation of any provisions of
APPEAL:         this chapter or a request for a variance.
FLOOD HAZARD:   The land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent (1%) or
AREA OF SPECIAL greater chance of flooding in any given year.
FLOOD HAZARD:
FLOOD HAZARD:   The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
BASE FLOOD:     given year.
                Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not
FLOOD HAZARD:   limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
DEVELOPMENT:    paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the area of special
                flood hazard.
FLOOD HAZARD:   A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more
EXISTING        manufactured home lots for rent or sale for which the construction of facilities
MANUFACTURED    for servicing the lot on which the manufactured home is to be affixed (including
HOME PARK OR    at a minimum, the installation of utilities, either final site grading or the
MANUFACTURED    pouring of concrete pads, and the construction of streets) is completed before
HOME            the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
SUBDIVISION:
FLOOD HAZARD:
EXPANSION TO AN
EXISTING        The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
MANUFACTURED    servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including
HOME PARK OR    the installation of utilities, either final site grading or pouring of concrete
MANUFACTURED    pads, or the construction of streets).
HOME
SUBDIVISION:
                A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
FLOOD HAZARD:   dry land areas from:
FLOOD OR        A.   The overflow of ponds, lakes, streams, rivers or other watercourses onto
FLOODING:       adjacent lands.
                B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
                source.
FLOOD HAZARD:   The official map on which the federal emergency management agency has delineated
FLOOD INSURANCE both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zoning districts
RATE MAP (FIRM/ applicable to the community and official report provided by the Federal Emergency
FLOOD INSURANCE Management Agency. It includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-floodway map,
STUDY):         and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD HAZARD:   The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that
FLOODWAY:       shall be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
                increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
                The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished
                or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles building
FLOOD HAZARD:   access or storage, in an area other than a basement area, is not considered a
LOWEST FLOOR:   building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to
                render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design
                requirements of this chapter.
                A structure that is transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent
FLOOD HAZARD:   chassis, and designed to be used with a permanent foundation when connected to
MANUFACTURED    the required utilities. It does not include recreational vehicles or travel
HOME:           trailers unless the same are placed on a site for greater than one hundred eighty
                consecutive days.
FLOOD HAZARD:   Structures for which the start of construction commences on or after the
NEW             effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
CONSTRUCTION:
                The first placement of permanent construction of a structure (other than a
                manufactured home) on a site, which as the pouring of slabs or footings or any
                work beyond the stage of excavation. Permanent construction does not include land
                preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling, nor does it include
                installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
FLOOD HAZARD:   basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor
START OF        does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
CONSTRUCTION:   garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not as part of the main
                structure. For a structure (other than a manufactured home) without a basement or
                poured footings, the "start of construction" includes the first permanent
                construction, such as the pouring of slabs, pilings, footings, etc. For
                manufactured homes not within a manufactured home park or manufactured home
                subdivision, "start of construction" means the affixing of the manufactured home
                to its permanent site.
FLOOD HAZARD:   A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is principally above
STRUCTURE:      ground.
                Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost of which
                equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
                either:
                A.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
                B.   If the structure has been damaged and being restored before the flood damage
                occurred. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement" is
FLOOD HAZARD:   considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
SUBSTANTIAL     other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
IMPROVEMENT:    affects the external dimensions of the structure;
                C.   The term, does not, however, include either.
                   1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state
                or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
                necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
                   2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
                Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
                A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits
FLOOD HAZARD:   construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter. Such
VARIANCE:       variances are to be reported to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon
                request.
FLOODWAY        The floodway channel as defined in the Flood Insurance Study for City, published
CHANNEL:        by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, most current edition.
FLOOR AREA      The gross floor area of a primary building, divided by the lot area of the lot on
RATIO (FAR):    which the building is placed.
FLOOR AREA,     The total square footage within a structure calculated by using the measurements
GROSS:          from the exterior walls.
FLORIST SHOP:   See Sales and Service.
FRATERNITIES:   See Group Living.
FREIGHT         See Warehouse, Freight Movement.
MOVEMENT:
FURNITURE       See Sales and Service.
STORE:
                A structure that is accessory to a residential building and that is used for the
                parking and storage of vehicles owned and operated by the residents of the
GARAGE:         residential building and is nota separate commercial enterprise available to the
                general public. Note: A former garage that has been converted from an accessory
                building (example: the garage door has been removed or the building has been
                divided into rooms) is not considered a garage for purposes of this chapter.
GASOLINE
SERVICE         See Vehicle Service.
STATION:
GASOLINE
(PETROLEUM      See Vehicle Service.
PRODUCTS)
STORAGE:
GATEWAY:        An entrance to the Wellsville area which transitions from generally rural,
                agricultural, or undeveloped areas into the urban City limits.
GENERAL OFFICE: See Office.
GENERAL PLAN:   The document adopted by the City Council meeting the provisions of Utah Code
                Sections 10-9-301 and 10-9-302.
GOLF COURSE     See Recreation and Entertainment Outdoor Facility.
GRADE, AVERAGE  The average between the highest and lowest elevation of the ground abutting the
FINISHED:       street walls of a structure, existing, or as shown on the construction plans.
GRANDFATHERING: A colloquial term used to refer to legally existing nonconformities.
GROCERY STORE:  See Sales and Service.
                That portion of property, represented in terms of acreage, which contains no
GROSS BUILDABLE critical or Critical lands, building or development encumbrances, or any other
ACRE:           natural, regulatory or legal restriction from development or placement of
                buildings or structures.
GROUNDCOVER:    Plants, generally not exceeding an average maximum height of twenty four (24)
                inches at maturity.
                A.   Assisted Living Center: residences that provide for semi-independent living.
                Such facilities may be: (1) equipped with studio or one bedroom apartments with
                limited kitchen facilities, generally designed for single occupancy; (2) contain
                central dining facilities where prepared meals are served to the residents; (3)
                employ full time nursing or medical assistance and supervision; and (4) may
                provide other additional services to residents.
                B.   Nursing Home, Convalescent Home: a long-term facility or a distinct part of
                a facility licensed or approved as a nursing home or convalescent home, infirmary
                unit of a home for the aged, or a governmental medical institution.
                C.   Caregiver: a person, either paid or voluntary, who helps the elderly,
GROUP LIVING:   disabled or otherwise incapacitated with the functions of daily living, health
                care, financial matters, guidance, companionship and social interaction. A
                caregiver can provide more than one aspect of care.
                D.   Other Types of Occupancy Where Care IS Provided: any situation involving
                occupancy in a group home where medical, therapeutic, or other treatment is given
                on a regular basis.
                E.   Other Types of Occupancy Where Care IS NOT Provided: any situation involving
                occupancy in a group home where NO medical, therapeutic, or other treatment is
                given.
                F.   Dormitories, Fraternities, Sororities: a building used as group living
                quarters for a student body or religious order as an accessory use to a college,
                university, boarding school, convent, monastery or similar institutional use.
                A drainage incision, commonly caused by erosion, which does not experience
GULLY:          regular or seasonal stream flow, but does act as a channel for runoff during
                periods of high rainfall.
HANDICRAFT      See Sales and Service.
SALES:
HARDWARE STORE: See Sales and Service.
HEALTH STUDIO:  See Sales and Service.
HEDGE:          A landscape barrier consisting of a continuous, dense planting of shrubs.
                The height of building is the vertical distance above the reference datum of the
HEIGHT,         ground. This is shown in Figure 10-62A. The height of a building is calculated
BUILDING:       utilizing the current version of the Uniform Building Code as amended. The height
                of a building containing a flat roof shall include parapet walls.
                That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any floor and
HEIGHT, FLOOR:  the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost story shall
                mean that portion of a building included between the upper surface of the topmost
                floor and the ceiling above.
 
Figure 10-62A: Determining Building Height
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2741.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2743.png]
 
 
              The height of a sign as specified in this code shall be measured
              from the highest point on the sign to the top back of the curb
HEIGHT, SIGN: nearest the sign on the frontage that the sign is facing. When no
              curb exists, the height shall be measure from the crown of the
              road closest to the sign on the frontage that the sign is facing.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2745.png]
 
HEIGHT,
STRUCTURE      The vertical distance measured from "Average Finished Grade" to the highest point
(OTHER THAN    of the structure.
BUILDING):
HISTORIC       The committee appointed by the Mayor for the purpose of preserving historical
PRESERVATION   structures, sites, artifacts, and/or features within the City of Wellsville.
COMMITTEE:
HOBBY SHOP:    See Sales and Service.
               Any activity carried out for gain or requiring a business license by a resident
HOME           and which is conducted as a customary, incidental, and accessory use in the
OCCUPATION:    resident's dwelling unit. A home occupation is owned and run by a resident of the
               dwelling in which the business takes place.
HOME
OCCUPATION-    A home occupation consisting of the office of a practitioner of a recognized
PROFESSIONAL   profession.
OFFICE:
HOMELESS       A person without permanent housing.
PERSON:
               A facility offering transient sleeping rooms and providing additional services
HOTEL:         within the same building, such as restaurant(s), conference or meeting rooms,
               banquet facilities, and full guest services, such as room service or a gift shop.
               An institution providing primary health services and medical or surgical care to
               persons, primarily inpatients, suffering from illness, disease, injury,
HOSPITAL:      deformity, and other abnormal physical or mental conditions and including as an
               integral part of the institution related facilities, such as laboratories,
               outpatient facilities, training facilities, medical offices, and staff
               residences.
               A housekeeping unit living together in a single dwelling unit, with common access
HOUSEHOLD:     to and common use of all living and eating areas and all areas and facilities for
               the preparation and serving of food within the dwelling unit.
               A.   Duplex, Triplex or Fourplex: A structure that contains two, three, or four
               dwelling units on one lot. The units may share common walls or common floor/
               ceilings.
               B.   Townhouse or Townhome: A dwelling unit, located on its own lot, that shares
               one or more common or abutting walls with one or more dwelling units, and is
               accessed through a front yard. An attached house does not share common floor/
               ceilings with other dwelling units.
               C.   Manufactured Housing Unit: A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with
HOUSING TYPES: federal manufactured housing construction and safety standards (HUD code) in
               effect after June 15, 1976.
               D.   Single Family Home detached: A dwelling unit located on its own lot that is
               not attached to any other dwelling unit accessed through the front yard or
               sideyard if a corner lot.
               E.   Twin home: a structure that contains two dwelling units with common walls or
               abutting walls, each located on its own lot. Twinhomes are often created by
               subdividing a single duplex into two separate lots, each of which contains one
               dwelling unit. A twinhome is an "Attached house."
               This type of housing is one level housing with an attached two car garage. The
HOUSING,       development encourages walking and is accessible to some form of public
SENIOR:        transportation. Similar housing is also known as independent living, or
               retirement facilities.
ICE CREAM      See Sales and Service.
SHOP:
               Industrial Service firms are engaged in the repair or servicing of industrial,
               business or consumer machinery, equipment, products or by-products. Firms that
               service consumer goods do so by mainly providing centralized services for
INDUSTRIAL     separate retail outlets. Contractors and building maintenance services and
MACHINERY      similar uses perform services off-site. Few customers, especially the general
STORAGE, SALES public, come to the site.
OR REPAIR (SEE A. Contractor Supply Store: the retail or wholesale sale and distribution of
INDUSTRIAL     goods supporting the contractor, construction or similar trade, with no outdoor
SERVICE)       storage, either temporary or permanent.
INDUSTRIAL     B.   Contractor Supply Store with Outdoor Storage: the retail or wholesale sale
SERVICE:       and distribution of goods supporting the contractor, construction or similar
               trade, with limited outdoor storage, either temporary or permanent.
               C.   Industrial Machinery Storage, Sales and Repair: Repair or servicing of
               business or consumer machinery, equipment, products or byproducts.
INFILL LOT:    An undeveloped parcel located within an area where most of the surrounding
               parcels are already development.
INNER BLOCK    Development located in the interior portion of a block.
DEVELOPMENT:
IRRIGATION:    A system to convey water to landscaped or agricultural areas.
INSTITUTIONS   Facilities providing a level of education at the collegiate-level such as
OF HIGHER      academies, universities, colleges, seminaries, institutes of technology,
LEARNING:      vocational schools, career colleges, and certain other collegiate-level
               institutes.
KENNEL:        See Sales and Service.
KEY SHOP:      See Sales and Service.
LABORATORY,
SCIENTIFIC OR  See Office.
RESEARCH:
               The total area of a lot lying within the lot lines, not including any portion of
               a street or right-of-way.
LAND AREA:     A.   Land Area, Gross: the size of a lot or parcel of land prior to subdivision
               or dedication of road rights-of-way, or other rights-of-way.
               B.   Land Area, Net: that land available for development after the area allocated
               for roads or rights-of-way is deducted from the gross land area.
               Any land that is mapped and recognized, by the City, to have physical,
LAND,          environmental, or aesthetic characteristics that provide a public benefit or
CRITICAL:      health or safety hazard that overrides the right to develop that portion of
               property.
               An area of land, exclusive of critical land, that is intended for the use and
               enjoyment of the occupants of the property or if publicly owned, for the
LANDS SET      enjoyment and use by the citizens of Wellsville. Set Asides are required as
ASIDE:         condition of approval on all development specified herein and are intended to
               further the health, safety, welfare of the citizens of Wellsville, its visitors,
               and workers.
               The area between the property side of the curb(where exists or is required) and
LANDSCAPE      the property line that is within the public street or right-of-way upon which
STRIP:         landscaping, including groundcover and trees, is planted. Landscape strip is also
               that area from the outside edge of pavement to the property line, excluding the
               sidewalk. Also referred to as the parkstrip.
               Consisting of any of the following or a combination thereof; material such as,
LANDSCAPING:   but not limited to grass, groundcover, shrubs, vines, hedges, or trees; but
               excluding sand, gravel, pavers, or pavement, unless the latter are approved as a
               component of the landscaping plan by the Planning Commission.
LAUNDROMAT:    See Sales and Service.
LAWN:          An area of maintained turf or grass.
LEATHER GOODS
SALES AND      See Sales and Service.
REPAIR:
LIGHT          See Manufacturing, Assembly, or Production.
MANUFACTURING:
LIQUOR STORE:  See Package Liquor Store.
LOADING AREA:  The area available for the maneuvering and standing of vehicles engaged in
               delivering and loading of passengers, freight, or other articles.
LOCKSMITH:     See Sales and Service.
LODGING:       A generic term for accommodations, such as motel or hotel (See "accommodations").
LODGING HOUSE: See "Boarding house".
               Property that has been legally subdivided with appropriate City approvals on
               which development may occur.
LOT:           A.   Lot, Corner: A lot abutting two or more streets at their intersection.
               B.   Lot, Interior: A lot other than a corner lot.
               C.   Lot, Through: A lot, other than a corner lot, having frontage on two (2)
               parallel or approximately parallel streets.
LOT,           A parcel of land that has met all requirements of Title 11 Subdivisions. The
BUILDABLE:     buildable lot shall have been approved and recorded as a final plat and shall
               have fulfilled all requirements for improvements.
LOT COVERAGE:  The percentage of a lot covered by all building footprints.
LOT DEPTH:     The horizontal distance between front and rear lot lines measured at the mid-
               point between the two (2) side lot lines.
               The property lines delineating the boundaries of a lot.
               A.   Lot Line, Corner: Any lot lines that abut a street on a corner lot. Street
               lot line does not include lot lines that abut an alley. On a corner lot, there
               are two (or more) street lot lines. Street lot line may include front lot lines
               and street side lot lines.
               B.   Lot Line, Front: A lot line that abuts a street. On a corner lot, the front
               line is the property line from which the main entrance to the structure is
               located. If two (2) or more street lot lines are of equal length, then the
               applicant or property owner may choose which lot line is to be the front.
               However, a through lot has two (2) front lot lines regardless of whether the
               street lot lines are of equal or unequal length.
LOT LINES:     C.   Lot Line, Interior Side: Any lot line except a front or rear lot line. On a
               corner lot, the longer lot line that abuts a street, is a street side lot line.
               D.   Lot Line, Rear: A lot line that is opposite a front lot line. A triangular
               lot has two (2) side lot lines but no rear lot line. For other irregularly shaped
               lots, the rear lot line is all lot lines that are most nearly opposite the front
               lot line.
               E.   Lot Line, Street Side: A lot line that is both a side lot line and a street
               lot line.
               F.   Lot Line, Street: Any lot lines that abut a street. Street lot line does not
               include lot lines that abut an alley. On a corner lot, there are two (2) (or
               more) street lot lines. Street lot line may include front lot lines and side lot
               lines.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot that was legally created before any amendment to the Land Use Regulations.
               A parcel of land severed or placed in separate ownership after April 15,1972, and
               which does not meet all area, width, yard and other requirements of this title
               for a lot; or a parcel of land which does meet all the requirements of this title
LOT            for a lot, but the creation of which has caused an adjacent lot from which it was
RESTRICTED:    severed to be insufficient in area, width, setback, yard or coverage
               requirements, when such adjacent lot has a structure on it or a building permit
               issued for a structure to be constructed on it. See Section
               10-59-9.
               A parcel of land that has not been approved and recorded as a final plat by the
               City of Wellsville. A lot can also be unbuildable even if recorded as a final
LOT,           plat, but has no adequate buildable area within the lot because of sensitive
UNBUILDABLE:   lands as defined in the Title 10 and Title 11 or if the lot is not serviceable by
               required municipal services. An existing lot shall not be buildable simply
               because it was approved and recorded. All lots shall conform to the full measure
               of the City Code even though recorded correctly or incorrectly.
               A.   Lot Width: The distance between two (2) side lot lines as measured at the
               midpoint between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT WIDTH:     B.   Average Lot Width: The average horizontal distance between side lot lines
               C.   Minimum Lot Width: The minimum required width of a lot as measured between
               side lot lines at any point between the front property line and the front plane
               of the primary structure.
 
   Figure 10-62: Lot Width Diagram
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2748.png]
 
LUMBER YARD:   See Warehouse, Freight Movement.
MACHINE SHOP:  See Sales and Service.
MAINTENANCE    see Sales and Service.
FOR BUILDINGS:
               Manufacturing and Production firms are involved in the manufacturing, processing,
               fabrication, packaging, or assembly of goods. Natural, manmade, raw, secondary, or
MANUFACTURING, partially completed materials may be used. Products may be finished or semi-finished
ASSEMBLY OR    and are generally made for the wholesale market, for transfer to other plants, or to
PRODUCTION:    order for firms or consumers. Goods are generally not displayed or sold on site, but
               if so, they are a subordinate part of sales. Relatively few customers come to the
               manufacturing site.
MANUFACTURED   A parcel (or contiguous parcels of land) divided into two (2) or more manufactured
HOME PARK OR   home lots for rent or sale for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
MANUFACTURED   lot (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, either final site grading
HOME           or the pouring of concrete pads, and the construction of streets) is completed on or
SUBDIVISION:   after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
MANUFACTURING, Manufacturing processes that do not emit detectable dust, odor, fumes, or gas beyond
LIGHT:         the boundary of the property of noises above the ambient level.
MASSAGE        See Sales and Service.
STUDIO:
MEDICAL
APPLIANCE      See Sales and Service.
FITTING OR
SALES:
MEDICAL        See Office.
OFFICE:
MICROWAVE      See Telecommunication Facilities.
TOWER:
MILLINER:      See Personal Custom Services.
MINERAL
RESOURCE
PRODUCTION,    The extraction of minerals, including solids, such as coal and ores; liquids, such as
PROCESSING &   crude petroleum; and gases, such as natural gases.
STORAGE
(MINING):
MINIATURE GOLF See Recreation and Entertainment Outdoor Facility).
COURSE:
MIXED-USE:     The combination on a site of residential uses with commercial or industrial uses.
MOBILE HOME    See Sales and Service.
SALES:
MONOPOLE:      A single, self-supporting, cylindrical pole, constructed without guy wires or ground
               anchors that acts as the support structure for antennas.
MORTUARY:      See Sales and Service.
               An establishment providing sleeping accommodations and limited support services, such
MOTEL:         as no room service, no in-facility eating establishment, and limited amenities. Motels
               tend to be no more than three stories high, but may be higher (See also the
               definitions of "Accommodations" and "Hotel").
MULCH:         Nonliving organic material customarily used in landscape design to retard erosion and
               retain moisture.
MULTI-FAMILY:  Two (2), three (3), or four (4) attached residential dwelling units on a single parcel
               of land.
MUSIC STORE:   See Sales and Service.
MUSIC STUDIO:  See Sales and Service.
               An area of the community with characteristics that distinguish it from other areas and
NEIGHBORHOOD   that may include distinct ethnic or economic characteristics, housing types, schools,
CHARACTER:     or boundaries defined by physical barriers, such as major highways and railroads or
               natural features, such as a river or canal.
NIGHTCLUB:     See Sales and Service.
               A.   Legally Existing Nonconforming Lot: A lot or parcel that was lawful and
               conforming to regulations prior to the adoption, revision, or amendment of Wellsville
               City Code Titles 16 and 10 prior to the adoption, revision, or amendment of this
               Title, and by reason of the adoption, revision, or amendment does not comply with the
               regulations of the zoning district in which it is located. A legally existing lot
NONCONFORMING  shall also have been divided or subdivided in conformance with the provisions of the
LOT:           Utah Municipal Land Management and Development Act or Title 16 of the Wellsville City
               Code.
               B.   Illegally Existing Lot: A lot or parcel that was created without compliance with
               requirements of the Utah Municipal Land Management and Development Act or Title 16 of
               the Wellsville City Code, or lots created without compliance with Title 10 of the
               Wellsville City Code.
               A. Legally Existing Nonconforming Sign: A sign that was lawful and conforming to
               regulations prior to the adoption, revision, or amendment of this Title, and by reason
NONCONFORMING  of the adoption, revision, or amendment does not comply with the use regulations of
SIGN:          the zoning district in which it is located.
               B. Illegally Existing Sign: A sign that was established without compliance with
               regulations in effect at the time it was erected or was erected without a permit.
               A.   Legally Existing Nonconforming Structure or Building: A building or structure,
               the size, dimensions, or location of which was lawful and conforming to regulations
               prior to the adoption, revision, or amendment of this Title, and by reason of the
NONCONFORMING  adoption revision, or amendment does not comply with the use regulations of the zoning
STRUCTURE:     district in which it is located.
               B.   Illegally Existing Building or Structure: A building, structure, or sign that was
               not in compliance with zoning, building, or planning regulations in effect at the time
               it was constructed or erected.
               A.   Legally Existing Nonconforming Use: An activity located on any land, or within
               building or structure that was lawful and conforming to regulations prior to the
               adoption, revision, or amendment of this Title, and by reason of the adoption
NONCONFORMING  revision, or amendment does not comply with the use regulations of the zoning district
USE:           in which it is located.
               B.   Illegally Existing Use: The use of any land, building, or structure for which no
               permit was obtained, which has not complied with the use regulations of the zoning
               district in which it is located, or was not established in conformance with
               regulations of the City at the time the use was established.
               A use, sign, structure, lot, or other situation that does not comply with currently
NONCONFORMITY: applicable regulations of Title 10 of the Wellsville City Code. A nonconformity may be
               legally existing or illegally existing as further defined in this section.
NON-VEHICLE
CAMPING        See Recreation and Entertainment Outdoor Facility.
(TENTS) IN RV
PARK:
NURSERY -
TREES, PLANTS, See Sales and Service.
VEGETATION:
               A.   Official Road Map: The map of proposed streets that has the legal effect of
               prohibiting development of the property until the municipality develops the proposed
               street. The "official transportation map" includes the street and transportation maps
OFFICIAL MAP:  within the General Plan, the street maps within the City of Wellsville "Road Master
               Plan," and the street maps within any plans prepared by the Cache Metropolitan
               Transportation Organization.
               B.   Official Zoning Map: The map enacted by the City Council identifying the location
               of all zoning districts as applied to lands within the City of Wellsville.
               General business, government, professional medical or financial services A building,
               or portion of a building, used for conducting the affairs of a business, profession,
               service, industry, or government and generally furnished with desks, tables, files,
               and communication equipment. The following are specific types of office uses:
               A.   Bank, savings and loans, or credit union: A financial institution that accepts
               deposits and channels money into lending activities.
               B.   Clinic, medical dental, or optical: A business wherein services are performed for
OFFICE:        the diagnosis and treatment of human and animal patients, with a moderate to high
               level of client interaction and traffic generated by employees and/ or clients. A
               medical office does not include an overnight care facility for humans.
               C.   Laboratory, scientific or research: A workplace for the conduct of scientific
               research which offers opportunities for observation, practice, and experimentation.
               D.   Wholesale office: An area used for conducting the affairs of a business in the
               sale of goods in large quantities, as for resale by a retailer. (See Wholesale, Sales
               and Service)
OFF-SITE       Construction of public facilities or public improvements that are not located on the
IMPROVEMENTS:  parcel under development.
ON-SITE        Construction of public facilities or public improvements and access within the
IMPROVEMENTS:  boundaries of a lot proposed for development.
OPEN AREAS:    See Parks.
               An area of land or water that may be used for passive or active recreation,
               agriculture, conservation, landscaped areas, preserves of the natural environment,
OPEN SPACE:    scenic land, and/or other use that is of a suitable size, topography, location, and
               shape to permit the activities for which it is intended as determined by the Planning
               Commission, but shall not include critical lands as defined in this section.
               Land areas within a lot or parcel that is used in conjunction with a primary use
               designed and intended for the use or enjoyment of the residents and their guests of
               the development and shall include improvements as necessary and appropriate for use as
               useable outdoor space. Open space may include accessory structures that enhance its
OPEN SPACE,    use and enjoyment. Useable outdoor space shall be generally landscaped and may include
USEABLE:       patios, decks, shade structures, play equipment, play courts, walkways, and landscaped
               plazas. Useable outdoor space shall not include required setbacks, parking, and/or
               driveways. Stormwater facilities qualify as useable outdoor space if the physical
               characteristics are functional as useable areas for the Intended purpose of useable
               outdoor space.
OPTICAL        See Office.
OFFICE:
PACKAGE LIQUOR See Sales and Service.
STORE:
PAINT SALES:   See Sales and Service.
PASSENGER      A designated area where transfers between modes of transportation take place.
TERMINALS:
PASSENGER      Facilities for the landing and takeoff of flying equipment, arrival and departure of
TERMINAL       vehicles, including loading and unloading areas for passengers, cargo, or freight.
(AIR):
PARCEL:        Same as "Lot."
               Any public or private area, under, above, or outside a building or structure, designed
PARKING AREA:  and used for parking motor vehicles. Driveways, private garages, parking lots, private
               driveways may be part of parking areas.
PARKING        A structure typically spanning an irrigation gutter or similar feature allowing
BRIDGE:        vehicles to travel from the pavement of a street onto a parking area or private
               property.
               An area, privately owned, that provides temporary storage of motor vehicles where a
PARKING,       fee is charged. Private parking is provided off-street and the primary use of the
COMMERCIAL:    property is commercial parking not accessory to a primary use. The surface of a
               commercial parking facility is paved with a bituminous or concrete surface. Commercial
               parking may be at ground level or within a multilevel structure.
PARKING SPACE: A hard surfaced area for short-term storage of vehicles.
               Uses of land focusing on natural areas, large areas consisting of mostly of vegetative
PARKS:         landscaping or outdoor recreation, community gardens, or public squares. Lands tend to
               have few structures.
               An uncovered hard surfaced area or an area covered with a perforated hard surface
PAVED AREA:    (such as "grasscrete") that may withstand vehicular traffic or other heavy impact
               uses. Gravel covered areas are not considered paved areas.
PAWN SHOP:     See Sales and Service.
               A regulation, quantity, timing requirement, or other requirement of this Title for
PERFORMANCE    which the code identifies an objective or measure to be achieved or accomplished but
STANDARD:      allows the decision-makers or project applicant the flexibility to propose the means
               by which the requirement will be successfully achieved.
PERSON:        Any person, partnership, association, limited liability corporation, or corporation.
PERSONAL
CUSTOM         See Sales and Service.
SERVICES:
PET HOSPITAL:  See Sales and Service.
PET SHOP:      See Sales and Service.
PHARMACY:      See Sales and Service.
PHOTOGRAPHY    See Sales and Service.
STUDIO :
               The Planning Commission of the City of Wellsville or the Planning Commission's
PLANNING       designee. Planning Commissions of other departments are referenced by department,
COMMISSION:    division, or title.
               The five (5) member body appointed by the Mayor as authorized in Wellsville City Code
               Chapter 2-40.
PLANT SALES:   See Sales and Service.
               A numeric measurement to establish planting requirements which can be expressed in
PLANT UNIT:    optional plant types. Units provide equivalency values for each plant type as
               described elsewhere in this chapter.
               The official map approved by the City, prepared for recordation showing the boundaries
PLAT:          of the subdivision, the location of lots, easements, streets, common areas, and upon
               which are affixed required signatures, notes, and other such inscriptions as required
               by conditions of project approval.
PLUMBING SHOP: See Sales and Service.
POST
INCARCERATION  See Alternative or Post Incarceration Facilities.
FACILITIES:
PRELIMINARY    A draft or proposed map of a subdivision presented to the City for review and action.
PLAT:
PRESCRIPTIVE   A regulation, quantity, timing requirement, or other requirement of this Title for
STANDARDS:     which the code specifies or prescribes what must be accomplished or achieved.
               A structure or combination of structures of chief importance or function on a site.
PRIMARY        Usually, the primary use of the site is carried out in a primary structure. The
STRUCTURE:     difference between a primary and accessory structure is determined by comparing the
               size, placement, similarity of design, use of common building materials and the
               orientation of the structures on a site. Garages are an accessory use.
               An activity or combination of activities of chief importance on the site. One of the
PRIMARY USE:   main purposes for which the land or structures are intended, designed, or ordinarily
               used. A site may have more than one primary use.
               A.   "Project" means any application, petition, or request for an action by the City
               that results in the issuance of a permit, approval or conditional approval of a
PROJECT:       development entitlement, or authorization by a City official, board, commission,
               committee, or council.
               B.   "Project" means development on a particular area of land.
               A person who advocates on behalf of a project. A proponent may be the owner of the
PROPONENT:     property or someone who is representing the owner such as a builder, developer,
               optional purchaser, consultant, or architect.
PROPERTY OWNER The person who is shown on the County's rolls as the record owner of a lot or parcel
FOR PURPOSES   in the City of Wellsville. The "record property owner on the latest County rolls"
OF MAILED      means the person shown as an owner of record as of the time the property rolls were
NOTICE:        finalized for setting property tax bills. Generally, this means the property owner as
               of January first of a calendar year.
PROVISIONING   See Sales and Service.
SALES:
RADIO TOWER:   See Telecommunication Facilities.
RADIO
TRANSMITTING   See Sales and Service.
STATION:
RAIL LINES:    Railroad tracks and lines for the movement of trains or light-rail passenger cars.
RAILROAD       See Sales and Service.
STATION:
               Recreation and Entertainment Outdoor, Facility uses are large, generally commercial,
               uses that provide continuous recreation or entertainment-oriented activities.
               Generally located outdoors, the uses are designed and equipped for the conduct of
               sports and leisure-time activities.
               A. Golf Course: A tract of land laid out and designed for the game of golf that may
               include a clubhouse, dining and snack bars, pro shop, and practice facilities.
               B. RV Park, Short-Term: Any lot or parcel of land upon which a site is located,
               established, or maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles for a fee as
               temporary living quarters for recreation or vacation purposes, for a period not to
RECREATION AND exceed seven days.
ENTERTAINMENT  C. RV Park, Long-Term (see Parking, Recreational Vehicle Park): Any lot or parcel of
OUTDOOR        land upon which a site is located, established, or maintained for occupancy by
FACILITY:      recreational vehicles for a fee as temporary living quarters for recreation or
               vacation purposes, for a period longer than seven days.
               D. Non-vehicle Camping (Tents) in RV Park: A designated area within a Recreational
               Vehicle Park specifically established for occupancy by people with tents for sleeping
               and vacation purposes.
               E. Tent Campground: Any lot or parcel of land upon which a site is located,
               established, or maintained for occupancy by people with tents for a fee for temporary
               vacation and recreational purposes.
               F. Miniature Golf Course and Accessory Recreation: A facility or tract of land laid
               out and designed for a miniature version of the sport of golf. This may include a
               dining establishment and snack bars or other subordinate features.
RECREATIONAL
SPORTING GOODS See Sales and Service.
SALES :
REDUCING       See Sales and Service.
STUDIO:
               A structure or place that primarily provides a meeting area for religious activities
               and where worship, ceremonies, rituals, and education pertaining to a particular
RELIGIOUS      system of beliefs are held; a church, synagogue, temple, mosque, or other facility
INSTITUTIONS:  that is used for prayer by persons of similar beliefs; a special-purpose building that
               is architecturally designed and particularly adapted for the primary use of conducting
               formal religious services on a regular basis.
REPAIR SERVICE See Sales and Service.
FOR BUILDINGS:
RESIDENTIAL
FACILITIES FOR The City adopts the standards and definitions within the Utah Code.
THE ELDERLY:
RESIDENTIAL
FACILITIES FOR The City adopts the standards and definitions within the Utah Code.
PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES:
RESIDENTIAL
PROGRAMS FOR   A nonprofit or for-profit group home for the sheltered care of persons with special
DRUG AND       needs, which, in addition to providing food and shelter, may also provide some
ALCOHOL        combination of personal care, social or counseling services, and transportation.
TREATMENT:
RESTAURANT     See Sales and Service.
RETAIL FOOD    A vehicle, normally and not limited to, a van, truck, towed trailer, or push cart from
ESTABLISHMENT  which food or beverages are sold.
- MOBILE
               Businesses or other establishments engaged in selling goods of merchandise to the
RETAIL SALES:  general public for personal or household consumption and rendering services incidental
               to the sale of such goods.
               A business location engaged in retail sales which result in activities intended to
RETAIL SALES   attract the general public to buy including receiving and reselling goods, including
ESTABLISHMENT: process or manufacture of products, such as baked goods or jewelry, provided that the
               two-thirds or more of the sales volume of the process or manufacture goods is sold on
               premises.
               The display and sales or products or services primarily outside of a building or
RETAIL SALES - structure including vehicles, building materials, garden supplies, gas, food and
OUTDOOR:       beverages, boats and aircraft, farm equipment, recreation vehicles, building and
               landscape materials, and lumber yards.
               An establishment providing services or entertainment, as opposed to products, to the
RETAIL         general public for personal or household use, including eating and drinking places,
SERVICES:      hotels and motels, finance, real estate, insurance, personal service, motion pictures
               or video, amusement and recreation services, health, educational, and special
               services, museums, and galleries.
REVIEW BODY:   A person or group authorized in the Land Use Regulations to conduct land use reviews
               and to act in an advisory capacity.
RIGHT-OF-WAY   A permit issued by the Department of Public Works to allow a private party revocable
ACCESS PERMIT: permission to work within or access from private property into the public right-of-
               way.
RIGHT-OF-WAY   A permit issued by the Department of Public Works to allow a private party revocable
PARKING        permission to maintain parking spaces within the public right-of-way.
PERMIT:
RIPARIAN:      An area associated with a natural water course including its wildlife and vegetation.
               On buildings without a pitched roof, the roof line shall mean the top of the exterior
ROOF LINE:     wall elevation. On buildings with a pitched roof, roof line shall mean the ridgeline
               of the roof.
RV PARK, LONG- See Recreation and Entertainment Outdoor Facility.
TERM:
RV PARK,       See Recreation and Entertainment Outdoor Facility.
SHORT-TERM:
SAFETY         Uses that provide public safety and emergency response services. They often need to be
SERVICE:       located in or near the area where the service is provided. Employees are regularly
               present on-site.
               Sales and Service firms are involved in the sale, lease or rent of new or used
               products to the general public. They may also provide personal services or
               entertainment, or provide product repair or services for consumer and business goods.
               The following sales and service definitions as shown in
               Tables 10-14-2 and
               10-17-2:
               A. Adult-Oriented Business: Any or all of the following or any portions of the
               following:
                  1. Adult Bookstore, Adult Video Store, Adult Novelty Store:
                      a. A business which excludes minors from more than 15% of the retail floor or
               shelf space of the premises; or
                      b. A business which, as one of its principal purposes, offers for sale,
               exhibition, or rental, for any form of consideration, any one or more of the
               following: books, magazines, novelties, periodicals, or other printed matter; or
               photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, or video reproductions, slides,
               or other visual representations, the central theme of which depicts or describes
               "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas;" or instruments,
               devices, or paraphernalia which are designated for use in connection with "specified
               sexual activities," except for legitimate medically recognized contraceptives.
                  2. Adult Business or Adult-Oriented Business: An adult motion picture theater,
               adult theater, adult bookstore, adult video store or adult novelty store.
                  3. Adult Motion Picture Theater: A commercial establishment which:
                      a. Excludes minors from the showing of two consecutive exhibitions (repeated
               showings of any single presentation shall not be considered a consecutive exhibition);
               or
                      b. As its principal business, shows, for any form of consideration, films,
               motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions which
               are primarily characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
               activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
                  4. Adult Theater: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
               establishment which:
                     a. Holds itself out as an adult theater; or
                       b. Excludes minors from the showing of two consecutive exhibitions (repeated
               performance of the same presentation shall not be considered a consecutive
               exhibition); or
                     c. As its principal purpose or business, features persons who appear in live
               performances in a state of semi-nudity or which are characterized by the exposure of
               specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
                  5. Principal Purpose: A component of a business which generates fifteen (15%) or
               more of gross sales or utilizes ten percent (10%) or more of retail display area.
                  6. Semi-Nude: A stated of dress in which opaque clothing covers no more than the
               areola of the female breast; and the male or female genitals, pubic region, and anus
               shall be fully covered by an opaque covering no narrower than four inches wide in the
               front and five inches wide in the back, which shall not taper to less than one inch
               wide at the narrowest point.
                  7. Specified Anatomical Areas: The human male or female pubic area or anus with
               less than a full opaque covering, or the human female breast below a point immediately
               above the top of the areola, with less than full opaque covering.
                  8. Specified Sexual Activities: means:
                     a. Acts of:
                        (1) Masturbation,
                        (2) Human sexual intercourse,
                        (3) Sexual copulation between a person and a beast,
                        (4) Fellatio,
                        (5) Cunnilingus,
                        (6) Bestiality,
                        (7) Pederasty,
                        (8) Buggery, or
                        (9) Any anal copulation between a human male and another human male, human
               female, or beast;
                     b. Manipulating, caressing or fondling by any person of:
                        (1) The genitals of a human,
                        (2) The pubic area of a human,
                        (3) The breast or breasts of a human female;
                        (4) Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in undergarments, a mask
               or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically
               restrained on the part of the one so clothed.
               B. Amusement, Commercial Indoor: A recreational facility conducted entirely indoors
               for commercial purposes, with or without seating for spectators, and providing
               accommodations for a variety or individual, organized or franchised sports, including
               wrestling, soccer, tennis, volleyball, racquetball, handball, bowling, skating, and
               ice skating. Such facility may also provide other regular organized or franchised
               events, such as children's amusements, skateboard facilities, trampoline or gymnastics
               facilities, swimming pools, snack bar, restaurant, retail sales or related sports,
               health, or fitness items, and other support facilities.
               C. Animal Clinic or Pet Hospital, no outdoor pens: A facility where animals receive
               medical care and the indoor boarding of animals is limited to short-term care
               incidental to the hospital use.
               D. Animal Clinic or Pet Hospital, with outdoor pens: A facility where animals receive
               medical care and the indoor and/or outdoor boarding of animals is limited to short-
               term care incidental to the hospital use.
               E. Antique or Collectible Shop: Retail establishments engaged in the selling or rental
               of antiquated goods or merchandise.
               F. Art Supply Store: Retail or wholesale establishments engaged in the selling or
               rental of art supplies.
               G. Barber or Beauty Shop: An establishment providing cosmetic treatment services for
               men and women. Other variations of this type of business include hair salons and spas.
               H. Bakery or Confectionary Shop, retail sales: An establishment where products such as
               bread, cake, and pastries are baked or sold.
               I. Brew Restaurant: A business licensed to sell beer for on-premises consumption in
               connection with a bona fide restaurant where the revenue from the sale of beer is less
               than fifty percent (50%) of the gross dollar volume. A Brew Restaurant is also
               licensed to brew beer in batch sizes that provide enough beer for the sale and
               consumption on site in connection with the restaurant and has any licenses subject to
               the applicable provisions of DABC.
               J. Camera Shop: Retail or wholesale establishments engaged in the selling or renting
               of photography products.
               K. Camping Supply Store in RV Park: An establishment in the business of offering sales
               of recreational vehicle and camping supplies located inside an RV Park.
               L. Carpet Sales, Retail and Wholesale: An establishment in the business of selling
               and/or installing carpet and carpet supplies at a retail or wholesale value. The
               carpets have been manufactured at a different location than where they are sold.
               M. Carwash: Any building or premises used for washing motor vehicles.
               N. Clothing: Retail or wholesale establishments engaged in the selling of clothing
               apparel.
               O. Club, Private: A building, or portion thereof, used by a group of people organized
               for recreational activities or to pursue common goals, interests, or other similar
               activities, usually characterized by certain membership qualifications and entry
               payment and/ or fees.
               P. Convenience Market, no gasoline: A retail establishment of up to 5,000 square feet
               selling primarily food products, household items, newspapers and magazines, candy, and
               beverages, and limited amount of freshly prepared foods such as sandwiches and salads
               for off-premises consumption.
               Q. Copy Center: A facility established for the use of copying and/ or scanning
               devices, typically for profit.
SALES AND      R. Dairy Products: are derived from milk, the secretion of the mammary glands of
SERVICE:       mammals, usually cows, sheep, goats, buffalo, mare, camel, or yak.
               S. Dance Hall or Nightclub: An establishment vending liquor and meals and in which
               music, dancing, or entertainment is conducted.
               T. Department or Discount Store: A single store, or group of stores, selling
               merchandise at lower-than-usual prices.
               U. Drug Store or Pharmacy: A store where the primary business is the preparation and
               dispensing of medical prescriptions and the sale of drugs, medical devices and
               supplies, and nonprescription medicines, but where nonmedical products may be sold as
               well.
               V. Dry Cleaner: An establishment in the business of providing dry-cleaning services on
               the premises. Customers typically drop off their items to be dry-cleaned by the
               employees of the business.
               W. Florist Shop: An establishment providing the arrangement and sale of flowers and
               similar accessory products.
               X. Furniture or Appliance Store: An establishment engaged in the selling of furniture
               and home-good appliances at retail price, open to the general public.
               Y. Garden Shop, Plant Sales, Nursery: The growing, cultivation, storage, and sale of
               garden plants, flowers, trees, shrubs, and fertilizers, as welt as the sale of garden
               tools and similar accessory and subsidiary products to the general public.
               Z. Grocery Store: An establishment primarily for the retailing of food.
               AA. Handicraft and Art Object Sale: An event for the display and sale of handmade
               goods and art pieces.
               BB. Hardware Store: An establishment in the business of selling metal goods and
               utensils such as locks, hinges, latches, handles, wire, plumbing supplies, tools, and
               cutlery.
               CC. Hobby Shop: A place where recreational modeling and craft supplies are sold, in
               addition to collectibles, games, and other small items for the interest or activity to
               be not a main occupation.
               DD. Kennel: A commercial establishment in which dogs or domesticated animals are
               housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained, or sold, all for a fee or compensation. A
               business license may be required.
               EE. Large Footprint: Retail sales establishments in freestanding industrial-style
               buildings, typically one story, with floor areas of greater than one hundred thousand
               (100,000) square feet.
               FF. Laundromat: An establishment providing washing, drying, or dry-cleaning machines
               on the premises for a charged use to the general public.
               GG. Locksmith or Key Shop: A place where locks and/ or keys are made or repaired.
               HH. Maintenance or Repair Service for Buildings: The practice of fixing mechanical,
               structural, or electrical problems and performing routine actions which keep a
               building in good condition and working order. Grounds keeping and maintenance may be
               included as secondary to this service.
               II. Medical Appliance Fitting or Sales: The business of selling or installing medical
               equipment.
               JJ. Mortuary: A place for the storage of human bodies prior to autopsy, burial, or
               release to survivors.
               KK. Music Store: Retail establishments engaged in the selling or rental of music
               records and/ or supplies.
               LL. Package Liquor Store: A store that sells alcoholic beverages for the consumption
               to take place elsewhere.
               MM. Paint Sales: Retail or wholesale establishments engaged in the selling or rental
               of paint supplies.
               NN. Pawn Shop: An establishment in the business of offering secured loans to people,
               with items of personal property used as collateral. The business may also sell items
               that have been sold outright by customers to the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer.
               OO. Personal Custom Services, such as milliner, tailor, etc.: An establishment
               providing services such as to alter and repair made-to-measure clothing, dresses,
               coats, hats, and other garments.
               PP. Pet Shop (Small Animals): An establishment in the business of offering display and
               sales of small domesticated animals including dogs, cats, birds, reptiles, rodents or
               similarly sized animals for the purpose of being household pets.
               QQ. Plumbing Shop: An establishment in the business of offering sales and service of
               products relating to residential and commercial plumbing equipment.
               RR. Provisioning and Recreational Sporting Goods Sales: An establishment providing
               sale, rental or repair of sporting goods and products for the purpose of outdoor/
               indoor recreation.
               SS. Radio or Television Transmitting Stations, commercial: An establishment engaged in
               transmitting oral and visual programs to the public and which may consist of a studio,
               transmitter, tower, and antenna(s).
               TT. Railroad or Bus Passenger Station: Facilities at selected points along transit
               routes for passenger pickup, drop-off, and waiting.
               UU. Repair of Appliances, TVs, Radios: The service of improving or correcting
               deficiencies, resulting from normal wear and tear or a manufactured error, in
               electrical appliances such as televisions, radios, vacuums, or other personal and/ or
               household items.
               VV. Restaurant, Cafeteria: A restaurant in which patrons wait on themselves, food is
               displayed and served from counters, where it is then taken to their tables.
               WW. Restaurant, Brew (see "Brew Restaurant" in Sales and Service).
               XX. Restaurant, Fast Food: A quick service restaurant characterized by its inexpensive
               food and minimal table service.
               YY. Restaurant, General: An establishment where food and drinks are prepared, served,
               and consumed, mostly within the principal building.
               ZZ. Shoe, Boot or Other Leather Goods Sale and Repair: An establishment or workshop
               where footwear or other leather goods are sold, rented, serviced or repaired.
               AAA. Storage Warehouse: A building that is primarily used for the storage of goods or
               merchandise.
               BBB. Studio - Health, Exercise, Massage, Reducing or Similar Service: An establishment
               providing space for aerobic exercises, running and jogging, exercise equipment, game
               courts, swimming facilities, and saunas, showers, massage rooms, and lockers.
               CCC. Studio - Photographer, Artist, Music, Dance, and Drama: The workshop of an
               artist, sculptor, photographer, or craftsperson or a workplace where film production
               takes place.
               DDD. Tavern: An establishment in which alcoholic beverages are served, primarily by
               the drink, and where food or packaged liquors may also be served or sold.
               EEE. Tennis or Swim Club, Private Indoor: A facility which requires a membership or
               fee to enter the premises, primarily for the game of tennis or swimming, and other
               ancillary activities or services.
               FFF. Theaters: A building or part of a building used to show motion pictures or live
               performances in drama, dance, musical, or other similar entertainments.
               GGG. Trailer and Mobile Home Sales: An area, other than the right-of-way or public
               parking areas, used for display, sale, or rental of new or used trailers or recreation
               vehicles in operable condition.
               HHH. Vehicle Parts Sales, new or reconditioned, indoor: An indoor area enclosed within
               a structure by walls and a roof overhead used for storage, display or sale of new or
               used vehicle parts.
               III. Vehicle Parts Sales, new or reconditioned, outdoor: An outdoor area on private
               property larger than one thousand (1,000) square feet used for storage, display or
               sale of new or used vehicles parts.
               JJJ. Vehicle and Equipment Sales: An area, other than the right-of-way or public
               parking areas, used for display, sale, or rental of new or used vehicles and equipment
               in operable condition.
               KKK. Vehicle, Recreational: A vehicular-type portable structure without permanent
               foundation that can be towed, hauled, or driven and is primarily designed for
               recreational and camping purposes.
               LLL. Vehicle, storage: Any lot or parcel of land upon which a site is located,
               established, or maintained for occupancy by vehicles.
               MMM. Welding or Machine Shop: A workshop where tools are used to for making,
               finishing, cutting, and connecting products or parts.
SATELLITE      Any device designed for over-the-air reception of television broadcast signals, multi-
FACILITIES:    channel multipoint distribution service or direct satellite service.
SAVINGS AND    See Office.
LOAN:
               Any building or part thereof which is designed, constructed, or used for education or
               instruction in any branch of knowledge (This component of the definition is all
               encompassing and includes all types of schools, whether public, private, parochial,
               nonprofit, or for-profit).
               A.   School, Elementary: Any school licensed by the State that meets the state
               requirements for elementary education.
               B.   School, Parochial: A school supported and controlled by a church or religious
               organization.
               C.   School, Private: Any building or group of buildings, the use of which meets state
SCHOOL:        requirements for elementary, secondary, or higher education and which does not secure
               the major part of its funding from any governmental agency.
               D.   School, Public: Any building or group of buildings, the use of which meets state
               requirements for elementary, secondary, charter school, or higher education and which
               does secure the major part of its funding from taxes or any governmental agency.
               E.   School, Secondary: Any school licensed by the state and that is authorized to
               award diplomas for secondary education.
               F.   School, vocational, or technical: A secondary or higher education facility
               primarily teaching usable skills that prepare students for jobs in a trade and meeting
               the state requirements as a vocational facility.
               This type of housing is one level housing with an attached two car garage. The
SENIOR         development encourages walking and is accessible to some form of public
HOUSING:       transportation. Similar housing is also known as independent living, or retirement
               facilities. See Section
               10-54-7.
SERVICE TO
MOTOR          Where driver/passenger generally waits in car (see Vehicle Service).
VEHICLES:
               The distance that is required by the Land Use Regulations to be maintained in an
               landscaped state between a structure and the property line of the lot on which the
               structure is located. The term "setback" refers to a required minimum distance while
               the term "yard" refers to the actual open area. Refer to Figures 10-62B and 10-62C.
               A. Setback, Corner: The distance from the street side property line not designated as
               a "front setback" to the closest distance a structure may be located from the property
SETBACK:       line.
               B.   Setback, Front: The distance from the front property line to the closes point a
               structure can be constructed to the front property line.
               C.   Setback, Side Interior: The distance from the interior side property lines to the
               closest distance a structure may be located from the property line.
               D.   Setback, Rear: The distance from the rear property to the closest distance a
               structure may be located from the property line.
 
   Figure 10-62B: Local of Building Setbacks on Corner Lots
   (Figure not provided)
Figure 10-62C: Location of Building Setbacks and Examples, Traditionally
Situated Lot
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2750.png]
                                      A hardwood tree that reaches a mature
                                      height of at least fifteen feet (15') at
SHADE TREE:                           maturity, provides relief from direct
                                      sunlight and is included in the permitted
                                      species list.
                                      A permanent or temporary structure that
                                      is less than one hundred and twenty
                                      square feet in gross floor area, has no
                                      electricity or plumbing, and does not
SHED:                                 require a building permit (Any structure
                                      with electricity or plumbing requires a
                                      building permit, and is defined as a
                                      "structure." Any shed over one hundred
                                      twenty (120) square feet is a
                                      "structure").
                                      A building serving as a residence for
SHELTER:                              designated persons or special classes of
                                      persons; or a building serving as a
                                      temporary refuge.
                                      A building serving as a temporary
                                      residence for persons, other than
Emergency Shelter                     homeless persons, while temporarily
                                      awaiting permanent housing or a return to
                                      permanent housing.
                                      A building serving as a permanent
Homeless Shelter                      dwelling unit for homeless persons
                                      without limitation on the length of stay.
                                      A building serving as a residence for
                                      homeless persons on an interim basis
                                      while more permanent shelter or housing
Transitional shelter for the homeless facilities are being prepared for their
                                      occupancy. A "transitional shelter for
                                      the homeless" can also be an emergency
                                      shelter for homeless persons.
SHOE REPAIR:                          See Sales and Service.
                                      A bushy, woody plant usually with several
                                      permanent stems, and usually not over ten
SHRUB:                                feet (10') high at maturity and not less
                                      than eighteen inches (18") upon
                                      installation.
                                      The distance along public or private
                                      right-of-way as measured from the
                                      intersection of the property line to a
                                      distance along each street forty feet
SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE:              from the intersection of property lines.
                                      This zone shall be clear of all
                                      structures, landscaping, vehicles, or any
                                      other object exceeding three feet (3') in
                                      height.
 
   Figure 10-62D: Sight Distance Triangle
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2752.png]
   
               Any object, device, display, or structure, or part thereof, situated outdoors or
               indoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct, or attract attention
SIGN:          to an object, person, institution, organization, business, product, service, event,
               or location by any means, including words, letters, figures, design, symbols,
               fixtures, colors, illumination, or projected images.
SIGN -         Any sign or part of a sign that changes physical position or light intensity by any
ANIMATED OR    movement or rotation or that gives the visual impression of such movement or
MOVING:        rotation. Electronic message centers and visual broadcast centers are not classified
               as animated or moving signs.
               A sign suspended in the form of an arch supported by columns that reflect the
SIGN -         material and design elements of buildings within the project. Archway signs provide
ARCHWAY:       an attractive entrance features located at roadway entrances and pedestrian
               entrances to a project. Archway signs shall only include the name of the project in
               the sign copy.
               Attention-getting devices, including pennants, whirly-gigs, streamers, and other
SIGN -         similar devices broadly defined to include triangular plastic flags attached to
ATTENTION-     wires, ropes and strung between products, poles, light standards, or the ground.
GETTING        Whirly-gigs are generally plastic or wood devices that move in the wind or air
DEVICE:        currents. Other attention getting devices include streamers or colorful materials
               attached to buildings, vehicles, vehicle antennas, furniture, large products, light
               standards, or other supports.
SIGN - AWNING, A sign that is mounted, painted, or attached to an awning, canopy, or marquee that
CANOPY, OR     is otherwise permitted by ordinance.
MARQUEE:
               A.   Banner, Generally: A sign constructed on a soft, pliable, or flexible fabric or
               other material, generally cloth or vinyl, upon which the sign message is applied.
               Generally banners are mounted by means of temporary supports, such as ropes or
               wires, through grommets or holes in the fabric material.
SIGN - BANNER: B.   Commercial Banner: A banner that is erected by a business for purposes of
               attracting attention to products, services, activities, promotions, or events
               occurring on or at the location of the business.
               C.   Noncommercial Banner: A banner that is erected by the City, a nonprofit
               organization, bona fide service club, school, religious institution, or bona fide
               club for purposes of promoting a specific event or activity open to the public.
SIGN - BENCH:  A sign painted, located on, or attached to any part of the surface of a bench, seat,
               or chair placed on or adjacent to a Public place or roadway.
SIGN -         See "Billboard."
BILLBOARD:
               A sign fastened to or painted on the wall of a building or structure in such a
SIGN -         manner that the wall becomes the supporting structure for, or forms the background
BUILDING:      surface of, the sign and that does not project more than twelve inches from such
               building or structure.
SIGN -         A sign that identifies an institution or organization on the premises of which it is
BULLETIN       located and that contains the name of the institution or organization, the names of
BOARD:         individuals connected with it, and general announcements of events or activities
               occurring at the institution or similar messages.
SIGN -         A sign that directs attention to a business or profession conducted, or to a
BUSINESS:      commodity or service sold, offered, or manufactured, or to an entertainment offered
               on the premises where the sign is located.
SIGN -         A sign enclosed and supported by a frame that is attached to a wall.
CABINET:
               A temporary sign erected on the premises on which construction is taking place,
SIGN -         during the period of such construction, indicating the names of the architects,
CONSTRUCTION:  engineers, landscape architects, contractors or similar artisans, and the owners,
               financial supporters, sponsors, and similar individuals or firms having a role or
               interest with respect to the structure or project.
               Signs limited to directional messages, principally for pedestrian or vehicular
SIGN -         traffic, such as "one-way," "entrance," and "exit" or a sign commonly associated
DIRECTIONAL:   with, and not limited to, information and directions necessary or convenient for
               visitors coming on the property, including parking areas, circulation direction,
               rest rooms, and pickup and delivery areas.
SIGN -         A sign listing the tenants or occupants of a building or group of buildings or
DIRECTORY:     project and that may indicate their respective professions or business activities.
SIGN - FACE:   The area or display surface used for the message.
SIGN -         Any permanent, immovable sign not affixed to a building.
FREESTANDING:
SIGN -         A sign erected and maintained pursuant to and in discharge of any governmental
GOVERNMENTAL:  functions or required by law, ordinance, or other governmental regulation.
SIGN - HOLIDAY Temporary signs, in the nature of decorations, clearly incidental to and customarily
DECORATION:    and commonly associated with a national, local, or religious holiday.
SIGN - HOME    A sign containing only the name and occupation of an appropriately licensed
OCCUPATION:    permitted home occupation.
SIGN -         A sign lighted by or exposed to artificial lighting either by lights on or in the
ILLUMINATED:   sign or directed toward the sign.
               Any display greater than six feet in height, including any tethering material,
SIGN -         capable of being expanded by air or other, gas and used on a permanent or temporary
INFLATABLE:    basis to advertise a product or event. A display of six feet (6') or less in height
               is defined as a balloon.
SIGN -         A sign, tablet, or plaque memorializing a person, event, structure, or site.
MEMORIAL:
SIGN - MENU    A sign that displays items for sale at a drive-through window.
BOARD:
SIGN - MESSAGE Signs with alphabetic, pictographic, or symbolic information content can be changed
CENTER,        or altered on a fixed display surface composed of electrically illuminated and
ELECTRONIC:    changeable segments. Signs with informational content that can be changed or altered
               by means of computer driven or electronically created impulses.
SIGN - MESSAGE Signs with alphabetic, pictographic, or symbolic information content can be changed
CENTER,        or altered on a fixed display surface changed by manual means, such as and not
MANUAL:        limited to removing and replacing messages by changing individual letters.
SIGN -         Any sign, other than a pole sign, in which the entire bottom is in contact with or
MONUMENT:      is close to the ground and is independent of any other structure.
SIGN -         A sign that is painted directly onto the wall of a building or structure without a
PAINTED:       physical structure or frame and does not meet the definition of "wall art" (Refer to
               "Wall Art").
SIGN - POLE:   A sign that is mounted on a freestanding pole or other support.
SIGN -         A temporary sign announcing or supporting political candidates or issues in
POLITICAL:     connection with any national, state, or local election.
SIGN -         A sign that is not permanent, affixed to a building, structure, or the ground.
PORTABLE:
SIGN -         A sign that is wholly or partly dependent upon a building for support and that
PERPENDICULAR: projects more than twelve inches from such building.
SIGN - READER  See "sign - message center, manual."
BOARD:
SIGN - REAL    A sign pertaining to the sale or lease of the premises, or a portion of the
ESTATE:        premises, on which the sign is located.
               A sign that is mounted on the roof of a building or that is wholly dependent upon a
SIGN - ROOF:   building for support and that projects above the top walk or edge of a building with
               a flat roof, the eave line of a building with a gambrel, gable, or hip roof, or the
               deck line of a building with a mansard roof.
SIGN -         A sign or advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas, fabric, plywood, or
TEMPORARY:     other light material and designed or intended to be displayed for a short period of
               time. Political election signs are considered temporary signs.
SIGN -         A sign on a vehicle not customarily and regularly used to transport persons or
VEHICLE:       properties.
SIGN-WALL:     See "sign - building."
SIGN - WINDOW: Logos, graphics, or advertising copy attached to or painted on a window.
               The entire face of a sign, including the advertising surface and any framing, trim,
SIGN AREA:     or molding but not including the supporting structure (see also
               Chapter 10-40).
SINGLE FAMILY: One family as defined in this chapter (Refer to
               Chapter 10-62 "Family").
               A development plan or drawing which contains information required by the City
SITE PLAN:     intended to show existing and proposed site conditions, and other information
               necessary to obtain a permit or other approval.
               A draft, rough, or conceptual drawing that expresses the general location of site
               development features, buildings, or other changes to the site that is prepared in
SKETCH PLAN:   order to obtain preliminary comments or address issues associated with the proposed
               development of a site. Sketch plans are prepared in advance of the expense required
               to prepare a full site plan.
SORORITIES:    See Group Living.
STEALTH        Antennas, antenna support structures and equipment facilities camouflaged or
TELECOMMUNICA- designed to blend with surrounding land uses, features, and architecture, thereby
TIONS          minimizing the aesthetic impact on adjacent uses, and concealing the intended use
FACILITIES:    and appearance of the telecommunications facility.
STORAGE OF
SAND, GRAVEL,  See Warehouse, Freight Movement.
EARTH OR
STONE:
               The use of open areas of the lot (except the front yard) for storage of items used
STORAGE,       for non-retail or industrial trade, the storage of merchandise inventory, and the
OUTDOOR:       storage of bulk materials such as sand, gravel, and other building materials.
               Outdoor storage shall also include contractors' yards or recycling areas.
STORAGE, SELF- Self-Service Storage uses provide separate storage areas for individual or business
SERVICE:       uses. The storage areas are designed to allow private access by the tenant for
               storing or removing personal property.
STORAGE UNIT,  Uses providing storage areas for individual or business uses
COMMERCIAL:
STORAGE        See Sales and Service. A building used primarily for the storage of goods and
WAREHOUSE:     materials.
               A story under a gable or hip or gambrel roof the wall plates of which, on at least
STORY, HALF:   two (2) opposite exterior walls, are not more than two feet (2') above the floor of
               such story.
               That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface
STORY:         of the next floor above it, or if there is no floor above it then the space between
               such floor and the ceiling next above it; not including cellar or basement.
               Public right-of-way, including highways, avenues, boulevards, parkways, roads, lanes
STREET:        walks, alleys, viaducts, subways, tunnels, bridges, public easements, and other
               ways. The public right-of-way shall also include the planting strip, sidewalk,
               drainage swales and curb, and gutter where required.
STRUCTURE:     Has the meaning as defined in the current adopted edition of the Uniform Building
               Code.
               A lean-to Is a building in which the rafters lean against another building! or wall
STRUCTURE,     for structural support at the upper slope of roof, A lean-to has a sloping roof and
LEAN-TO:       three walls or it may be open on the sides. The lean-to abuts the wall of another
               structure. The roof may align with the roof of the supporting structure or it may be
               lower.
STUDIO:        See Sales and Service.
               A.   "Subdivision" means any land that is divided, re-subdivided, or proposed to be
               divided into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of
               land for the purposes, whether immediately or future, for offer, sale, ground lease,
               or development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
               terms, and conditions, including for purposes of securing financing.
               B.   Subdivision Includes:
                  1.   The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and bounds
               description, devise and testacy, lease, map, plat, or other recorded instrument; or
                  2.   Divisions of land for all residential and nonresidential uses, including
SUBDIVISION:   land used or to be used for commercial, agricultural, and industrial purposes, or
                  3.   The creation of condominiums, townhomes, planned developments, and any other
               project that results in individual ownership in fee title, airspace, or
               cooperatively; or
                  4.   Stock cooperatives.
               C.   "Simple Subdivision" means "subdivision".
               D.   "Major Subdivision" means "subdivision".
               E.   "Minor Subdivision" means "subdivision".
               F.   "Lot Split" means subdivision.
               G.   When counting lots in a subdivision, the lot that exists prior to subdivision
               counts as one lot.
SUBDIVISION    The "subdivision ordinance" is incorporated within the City of Wellsville Code,
ORDINANCE:     Title 11 .
SWIM CLUB:     See Sales and Service.
TAILOR:        See Personal Custom Services.
TANDEM         A parking design in which one (1) car parks behind another car in a single width
PARKING:       driveway lane or single width parking space.
 
   Figure 10-62E: Tandem Parking
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1a6fcd00f09c80881f30770212da80f5b9d638f6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2754.png]
 
 
TAVERN:            See Sales and Service.
TECHNICAL ADVISORY A committee that may be established as needed at the discretion of the Mayor to
COMMITTEE:         provide technical support or recommendations to the Mayor or other Commissions
                   or Boards.
                   See Monopole, Wireless Telecommunications Facility.
                   A.   Amateur Radio Tower: Vertical structure(s) designed and engineered to
                   support antennas for telecommunications and broadcasting.
                   B.   Microwave Tower: Vertical structure(s) designed and engineered to transmit
TELECOMMUNICATION  information by the use of radio waves.
FACILITIES:        C.   Television Tower: Vertical structure(s) designed and engineered to transmit
                   information by the use of radio waves.
                   D.   Radio Tower: Vertical structure(s) designed and engineered to transmit
                   information by the use of radio waves.
                   E.   Wireless Telecommunications Tower (see Wireless Telecommunications
                   Facility).
TELEVISION TOWER:  See Telecommunication Facilities.
TELEVISION
TRANSMITTING       See Sales and Service.
STATION:
TENNIS CLUB:       See Sales and Service.
TENT CAMPGROUND:   See Recreation and Entertainment Outdoor Facility.
THEATERS:          See Sales and Service.
                   A dwelling unit that is attached to an adjoining dwelling unit, in which the
TOWNHOME:          ground and building are owned in fee title. A townhome is a part of a cluster or
                   planned unit development.
TRADE SCHOOL:      See school, vocational, or technical.
TRAILER SALES:     See Sales and Service.
                   Any self-supporting woody perennial plant which has a trunk diameter of three
                   inches or more when measured at a point 4.5 feet above grade and which normally
TREE:              attains an overall height of at least 15 feet at maturity, usually with one main
                   stem or trunk and many branches. Trees may appear to have several stems or
                   trunks, as in several varieties of oaks.
TREE CANOPY:       The upper portion of a tree consisting of limbs, branches and leaves.
                   To change the location of, or any action or inaction which will cause a tree to
                   die within a period of nine (9) months. Tree removal also includes any action to
                   any part of a tree which will cause a tree to become so undesirable as to
TREE REMOVAL:      warrant the total removal of the tree, e.g., improper pruning so as to destroy
                   the natural shape or which causes infection, infestation, rot or decay;
                   application of herbicidal or other lethal chemicals; paving over the root
                   system, etc.
TRIPLEX:           A residence consisting of three attached dwelling units.
                   A facility intended to provide services to the trucking industry, including but
TRUCK STOP OR      not limited to the following activities: dispensing of fuel, repair shops,
TRAVEL CENTER:     automated washes, overnight parking, restaurants, and motels; fuel and
                   conveniences for travelers all as part of the facility.
TRUCK STORAGE,     Any lot or parcel of land upon which an outdoor site is located, established, or
OUTDOOR:           maintained for occupancy by an automotive vehicle suitable for hauling.
TWIN HOME:         A residence consisting of two (2) attached units that are individually owned and
                   occupied.
                   A. Basic service delivery and laterals: Infrastructure services that need to be
                   located in or near the area where the service is provided; physical facilities
                   or structures that are more than thirty-six inches (36") in height above ground
                   surface or more than a four (4) square feet footprint.
                   B. Distribution network: Neighborhood or area distribution network, above ground
UTILITIES:         power lines of less than one hundred twenty (120) kilovolts.
                   C. Structures, physical facilities: Regional, intracity, intercity, or
                   interstate distribution lines; above ground power of one hundred twenty (120)
                   kilovolts or more; power distribution by a non-franchised power company;
                   physical facilities or structures that are more than thirty-six inches (36") in
                   height above ground surface or more than a four (4) square feet footprint;
                   municipal water well, reservoir, or storage tank.
USE:               The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or intended, or
                   for which either land or a building is or may be occupied or maintained.
VEGETATION,        Any plant species which is indigenous to all or a part of northern Utah or the
NATIVE:            northern Rocky Mountain and Great Basin ecosystems. Plant species which have
                   been introduced by humans are not classified as native species.
VEHICLE PARTS      See Sales and Service.
SALES:
                   Repair to passenger vehicles, light and medium trucks and other motor vehicles
VEHICLE REPAIR:    such as motorcycles, boats and recreational vehicles. Generally, the customer
                   does not wait at the site while the service or repair is being performed.
VEHICLE AND        See Sales and Service.
EQUIPMENT SALES:
                   Service to passenger vehicles, light and medium trucks and other motor vehicles
                   such as motorcycles, boats and recreational vehicles. Generally, the customer
                   waits inside the vehicle or on-site while the service is being performed.
                   A.   Electric Fueling Facilities (no petroleum) in conjunction with a primary
                   use (see Sales and Service - Convenience Market, no gasoline).
                   B.   Gasoline Petroleum Products Storage (home heating exempt): Storage
                   facilities either above or below ground containing one-hundred (100) gallons or
VEHICLE SERVICE:   more of petroleum product(s).
                   C.   Gasoline Service Station: A retail establishment selling primarily
                   petroleum products, vehicle related products and services, food products,
                   household items, newspapers and magazines, candy, and beverages, and prepared
                   foods.
                   D. Truck Stop: A retail establishment with larger site development areas
                   compared to gasoline service stations selling primarily petroleum products,
                   vehicle related products and services, food products, household items,
                   newspapers and magazines, candy, and beverages, and, prepared foods.
                   An area used for the loading, circulation, access, storage or display of motor
VEHICLE USE AREA:  vehicles. Designated off-street parking spaces or spaces on public or private
                   streets shall not be considered vehicular use areas.
VOCATIONAL SCHOOL: See School, Vocational.
VINES:             Plants which normally require support to reach mature form.
WALL ART:          A graphic representation that has no advertising or promotional content, no
                   signage, no logos, or other commercial content or graphics.
                   Firms involved in the storage, or movement of goods for themselves or other
WAREHOUSE, FREIGHT firms. Goods are generally delivered to other firms or the final consumer,
MOVEMENT:          except for some will-call pickups. There is little on-site sales activity with
                   the customer present.
                   Uses that receive solid or liquid wastes from others for disposal on the site or
WASTE RELATED USE: for transfer to another location, uses that collect sanitary wastes, or uses
                   that manufacture or produce goods or energy from the composting of organic
                   material.
WELDING SHOP:      See Sales and Service.
WHEN FEASIBLE:     When all attendant circumstances are considered, the benefit to the community
                   outweighs the cost and burden to the proponent or developer.
WHOLESALE OFFICE:  See Office.
                   Firms involved in the sale, lease, or rent of products primarily intended for
                   retailers, industrial, institutional, commercial, or professional business
WHOLESALE SALES    users. The uses emphasize on-site sales or order taking and often include
AND SERVICE:       display areas. Businesses may or may not be open to the general public, but
                   sales to the general public are limited. Products may be picked up on-site or
                   delivered to the customer.
WILDFIRE:          An area subject to potential damage from fire cause by combustion of native
                   vegetation, commonly referred to as forest fire or brush fire.
                   Telecommunications facilities includes all devices, equipment, machinery,
                   structures or supporting elements necessary to produce non-ionizing
                   electromagnetic radiation within the
WIRELESS           Chapter 10-61 Definitions range of frequencies from one hundred (100) KHz to
TELECOMMUNICATIONS three hundred (300) GHz and operating as a discrete unit to produce a signal or
FACILITY:          message. Facilities may be self-supporting, guyed, co-located with existing
                   facilities, or mounted on rooftops, poles, light posts, power poles, buildings
                   or other structures. Facilities may also include interconnection translators,
                   connections from over-the-air to cable, fiber-optic, or other landline
                   transmission system.
WRECKING OR
SALVAGE            See Waste Related Use.
FACILITIES,
ENCLOSED:
WRECKING OR
SALVAGE YARD,      See Waste Related Use.
OPEN:
WRECKING OR        Any completely enclosed, roofed, building for storing, collection, processing,
SALVAGE YARD,      selling, dismantling, shredding, compressing, or salvaging scrap, discarded
ENCLOSED:          material, vehicles, or equipment.
WRECKING OR        Any lot, land, parcel, or area for storing, collection, processing, selling,
SALVAGE YARD,      dismantling, shredding, compressing, or salvaging scrap, discarded material,
OPEN:              vehicles, or equipment.
                   The actual undeveloped open space that exists or that is proposed between a
YARD:              structure and the lot lines of the lot on which the structure is located. See
                   "Setback."
YARD, VEHICLE      Any lot, land, parcel, or area for temporary storage (less than ninety (90)
IMPOUND:           days) of impounded vehicles where no work is conducted on these vehicles unless
                   required for safe transport or storage purposes.
                   An application or petition to change either the Official Zoning Map or the
ZONING AMENDMENT:  regulations, provisions, standards, specifications, or text of the Land Use
                   Regulations.
                   The separate areas defined within the City to which a specific zoning district
                   or land use classification is assigned.
                   A.   Base Zoning District: A zoning district that establishes the primary
                   permitted uses, conditional uses, and development standards for a parcel of
ZONING DISTRICT:   land.
                   B.   Combining Zoning District: A zoning district in the Land Use Regulations
                   which is applied to a parcel of land to add special or additional development
                   requirements in addition to or in place of the requirements of the base zoning
                   district.
                   All those ordinances enacted by the City Council for the City of Wellsville
ZONING ORDINANCE:  codified in Title 10 of the Wellsville City Code or within the Land Use
                   Regulations.
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 10-16-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-01, 3-2-2022; Ord. 2022-03, 3-2-2022;
Ord. 2022-04, 3-16-2022)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Policy
11-1-3: Purposes
11-1-4: Authority
11-1-5: Jurisdiction
11-1-6: Enactment
11-1-7: Interpretation, Conflict And Separability
11-1-8: Saving Provision
11-1-9: Reservations And Repeals
11-1-10: Amendments
11-1-11: Public Purpose
11-1-12: Variances, Exceptions And Waiver Of Conditions
11-1-13: Enforcement, Violations And Penalty
11-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall officially be known, cited and referred to as the
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS OF WELLSVILLE CITY. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-1-2: POLICY:
   A.   It is declared to be the policy of the city to consider the subdivision
of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided plat as subject to the
control of the city pursuant to the official general plan and other adopted
codes of the city for the orderly, planned, efficient and economical
development of the city.
   B.   Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire,
flood, earthquakes, sensitive lands or other menace, and land shall not be
subdivided until adequate public facilities and improvements exist and proper
provision has been made for drainage, water, sewerage and capital improvements,
such as parks, recreational facilities, transportation facilities and
improvements.
   C.   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to the proposals shown in the general plan, official map, and
the capital budget program of the city, and it is intended that these
regulations shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of the provisions
and standards contained in building and housing codes, zoning ordinances, city
design standards and construction specifications, the general plan, official
map and land use plan, and the capital budget land program of the city.
   D.   Land that has been subdivided prior to the effective date hereof
should, whenever possible, be brought within the scope of these regulations to
further the purposes of regulations identified in section
11-1-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-1-3: PURPOSES:
These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of the city;
   B.   To guide the future growth and development of the city in accordance
with the general plan;
   C.   To provide for adequate light, air and privacy, to secure safety from
fire, flood and other danger, and to prevent overcrowding of the land and undue
congestion of population;
   D.   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the city and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of
the community through appropriate growth management techniques assuring the
timing and sequencing of development, promotion of infill development in
existing neighborhoods and nonresidential areas with adequate public
facilities, to assure proper urban form and open space separation of urban
areas, to protect environmentally critical areas and areas premature for urban
development;
   E.   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the city and the
value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
   F.   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, parks, open space,
recreation, and other public requirements and facilities;
   G.   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the city, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building lines;
   H.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land, and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land;
   I.   To ensure that public facilities and services are available concurrent
with development and will have a sufficient capacity to serve the proposed
subdivision and that the community will be required to bear no more than its
fair share of the cost of providing the facilities and services through
requiring the developer to pay fees, furnish land, provide water, or establish
mitigation measures to ensure that the development provides its fair share of
capital facilities needs generated by the development;
   J.   To prevent the pollution of air, streams and ponds; to assure the
adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table, and to encourage
the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the city in order
to preserve the integrity, stability and beauty of the community and the value
of the land. Further, to establish standards for the development of land within
the city which possess natural or manmade hazards, natural resource amenities,
or other qualities of benefit to the city. To this end, it is necessary to
impose special regulations to minimize vegetation removal, soil and slope
instability, loss of designated wetlands, erosion and water runoff, impairment
of aesthetic qualities, including scenic vistas, to retain open space, to keep
important agricultural lands in production, and to maintain recreational access
corridors within linear natural drainage systems. Regulations of this title are
designed to prevent the encroachment of developments into sensitive lands which
would be contrary to the objectives and characteristics of the city;
   K.   To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout
of the land, including the use of average density in providing for minimum
width and area of lots, while preserving the density of development as
established in the zoning ordinance of the city;
   L.   To ensure that land is subdivided only when subdivision is necessary to
provide for uses of land for which market demand exists and which are in the
public interest;
   M.   To remedy the problems associated with inappropriately subdivided
lands, including premature subdivision, excess subdivision, partial or
incomplete subdivision, scattered and low grade subdivision. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-
16-2007)
11-1-4: AUTHORITY:
The planning commission is vested with the authority to review, approve,
conditionally approve and disapprove applications for the subdivision of land,
including concept plans and preliminary plats. The planning commission will
review, recommend approval or conditional approval, or recommend disapproval,
to the city council of all final plats. The city council is vested with the
authority to approve, conditionally approve and disapprove applications for
preliminary and final subdivision plats. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007; amd. 2009
Code)
11-1-5: JURISDICTION:
   A.   Applicability: These regulations apply to all "subdivision of land", as
defined in section
11-2-1 of this title, located within the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Plat Approval Required: No land may be subdivided through the use of
any legal description other than with reference to a plat approved by the city
council in accordance with these regulations.
   C.   Prior Subdivisions:
      1.   The city council also shall have the authority to review and
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the sale, lease or development of
lands subdivided prior to or following the effective date hereof, as follows:
         a.   The plat of the subdivided land was recorded without the prior
approval of the city council or the mayor, whether or not prior approval was
required at the time the land was subdivided and the plat contains contiguous
lots in common ownership where one or more of the lots is undeveloped, whether
the lots are owned by the original subdivider or an immediate or remote grantee
from the original subdivider;
         b.   The plat of the subdivided land has been of record for more than
five (5) years, was not approved after the effective date hereof, and contains
contiguous lots in common ownership where one or more of the contiguous lots
are undeveloped, whether the lots are owned by the original subdivider or an
immediate or remote grantee from the original subdivider;
         c.   The plat has been of record for more than five (5) years, was
approved after the effective date hereof, and contains contiguous lots in
common ownership where one or more of the contiguous lots is undeveloped and
one or more is nonconforming under the zoning ordinance, whether the lots are
owned by the original subdivider or an immediate or remote grantee from the
original subdivider;
         d.   The original subdivider or his successor failed to complete
subdivision improvement requirements and the plat contains contiguous lots in
common ownership where one or more of the contiguous lots is undeveloped,
whether the lots are owned by the original subdivider or an immediate or remote
grantee from the original subdivider; except that this subsection shall not
apply if the city has obtained possession of sufficient funds from security
provided by the subdivider with which to complete construction of improvements
in the subdivision.
      2.   Whenever the jurisdiction of the city council extends to one of the
situations described in subsection C1 of this section, only the sale, lease,
transfer or development of an undeveloped lot or lots contiguous to a lot or
lots in common ownership shall be subject to these regulations.
   D.   Plans And Plats; Filing: No land described in this section shall be
subdivided or sold, leased, transferred or developed until each of the
following conditions has occurred in accordance with these regulations:
      1.   The subdivider or his agent has submitted a conforming concept plan
of the subdivision to the planning commission; and
      2.   The subdivider or his agent has obtained approval of the concept
plan, a preliminary plat when required, and a final plat with all required
signatures; and
      3.   The city files the approved plats with the county recorder.
   E.   Conformance Required: No building permit or certificate of occupancy
shall be issued for any parcel or plat of land created by subdivision after the
effective date hereof, and not in conformity with the provisions of these
subdivision regulations, and no excavation or grading of land or construction
of any public or private improvements shall take place or be commenced, except
in conformity with these regulations. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-1-6: ENACTMENT:
All applications for subdivision approval, including final plats, pending on
the effective date hereof, shall be reviewed under these regulations, except
that these regulations will not apply if preliminary plat approval was obtained
prior to the effective date hereof, and the subdivider has constructed
subdivision improvements prior to submission of the final plat as required by
the city, unless the city council determines on the record that application of
these regulations is necessary to avoid a substantial risk of injury to public
health, safety, and general welfare. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
11-1-7: INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY:
   A.   Interpretation: In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. These regulations
shall be construed broadly to promote the purposes for which they are adopted.
      1.   Public Provisions: These regulations are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or
other provision of law, except as provided in these regulations. Where any
provision of these regulations imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any other provision of these regulations or any other ordinance,
rule or regulation, or other provision of law, the provision which is more
restrictive or imposes higher standards shall control.
      2.   Private Provisions: These regulations are not intended to abrogate
any easement, covenant or any other private agreement or restriction; provided,
that where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or impose
higher standards or regulations than such easement, covenant or other private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall govern.
Where the provisions of the easement, covenant or private agreement or
restriction impose duties and obligations more restrictive or standards that
are higher than the requirements of these regulations, or the determinations of
the city council in approving a subdivision or in enforcing these regulations,
and the private provisions are not inconsistent with these regulations or the
determinations made under these regulations, then the private provisions shall
be operative and supplemental to these regulations and the determinations made
under the regulations.
   B.   Separability: If any part or provision of these regulations or the
application of these regulations to any person or circumstances is adjudged
invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the judgment shall be confined
in its operation to the part, provision or application directly involved in the
controversy in which the judgment shall be rendered and it shall not affect or
impair the validity of the remainder of these regulations or the application of
them to other persons or circumstances. The city council hereby declares that
it would have enacted the remainder of these regulations even without any such
part, provision or application which is judged to be invalid. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-
16-2007)
11-1-8: SAVING PROVISION:
These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as
waiving any right of the city under any section or provision existing at the
time of adoption of these regulations, or as vacating or annulling any rights
obtained by any person, firm or corporation by lawful action of the city,
except as shall be expressly provided for in these regulations. (Ord. 2007-05,
5-16-2007)
11-1-9: RESERVATIONS AND REPEALS:
Upon the adoption of these regulations according to law, the subdivision
regulations of the city previously adopted, as amended, are hereby repealed,
except as to those sections expressly retained in these regulations. (Ord.
2007-05, 5-16-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
11-1-10: AMENDMENTS:
This title, including maps, may be amended from time to time by the city
council. Public notice of the time and place of any required public meetings
and hearings shall be published in or given in the manner provided by
applicable state law in effect at the time any such public notice is given. All
proposed amendments shall be proposed by or submitted to the planning
commission for its recommendation. Such recommendations shall be forwarded to
the city council for action within forty five (45) days of receipt by the
planning commission. Failure of the planning commission to submit a
recommendation within the prescribed time shall be deemed approval by such
commission of the proposed change or amendment. The city council may adopt or
reject any proposed amendment or map either as proposed by the planning
commission or after making any revision the city council considers appropriate.
(Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-1-11: PUBLIC PURPOSE:
Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated
by the state to this city. The developer has the duty of compliance with
reasonable conditions laid down by the city council for design, dedication,
improvement and restrictive use of the land to conform to the physical and
economic development of the city, and to the health, safety and general welfare
of the future lot owners in the subdivision and of the community at large.
(Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-1-12: VARIANCES, EXCEPTIONS AND WAIVER OF CONDITIONS:
   A.   Permitted; Conditions: Where the city council finds that extraordinary
hardships or practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with
these regulations and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a
greater extent by an alternative proposal, it may approve variances, exceptions
and waiver of conditions to these subdivision regulations so that substantial
justice may be done and the public interest secured; provided, that the
variance, exception or waiver of conditions shall not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations; and further provided,
the city council shall not approve variances, exceptions and waiver of
conditions unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to
it in each specific case that:
      1.   The granting of the variance, exception or waiver of conditions will
not be detrimental to the public safety, health or welfare or injurious to
other property;
      2.   The conditions upon which the request is based are unique to the
property for which the relief is sought and are not applicable generally to
other property;
      3.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations is carried out;
      4.   The relief sought will not in any manner vary the provisions of the
zoning ordinance, general plan or official map, except that those documents may
be amended in the manner prescribed by law.
   B.   Granting an exception for an unbuildable lot.
      1.   Purpose. A process is established to bring an unbuildable lot (see
Definitions
10-62 and
11-2-1) into compliance with city codes and to remedy creation of an illegal
lot. Allowing an exception will clear the lot to be processed as a legal
subdivision to gain approval as a buildable lot.
      2.   Standards for granting an exception:
         a.   The city council may grant an exception for a lot that does not
meet the requirements for a buildable lot only if the lot is unbuildable and is
owned by a purchaser who had no knowledge of the illegal creation of the lot.
         b.   At a minimum, the owner shall submit a notarized affidavit
confirming the claim that the current owner had no knowledge and/or involvement
with the creation of the illegal lot. The applicant shall also include, in the
affidavit, evidence that all reasonable efforts have been exhausted to cause
the person or parties that created the lot to participate in completing a legal
subdivision making both lots buildable.
         c.   Upon requesting an exception, the city shall record a Notice of
Violation upon each affected lot at the Cache County Recorders Office. The
notice shall state that each lot was created illegally and building permits
cannot be obtained until all lot(s) comply as a legal lot.
         d.   The lot requesting the exception shall not be in partial or
single ownership by the person(s) or entity that created the lot without
gaining subdivision approval from the City of Wellsville.
         e.   Granting an exception shall be subject to findings of fact that
the lot is eligible to be cleared to apply for a subdivision approval shall be
substantiated in the record.
      3.   Clearance to become a buildable lot.
         a.   The granting of an exception to make the lot buildable shall
render the lot available to commence subdivision approval through the
provisions of this title.
         b.   An encumbrance related to the property being illegal or
unbuildable shall be removed once the lot has been filed as a final plat with
the county recorders office.
         c.   Lot owner may apply for a building permit upon fulfilling all
requirements for a subdivision, including approval and recordation of a final
plat, and meeting the requirements for improvements.
      4.   This exception shall not be available to any lot that is unbuildable
because of sensitive lands limitations.
      5.   A buildable lot is a parcel of land that has met all requirements of
Title 10 Land Use Regulations and Title 11 Subdivisions. See definitions of
buildable and unbuildable lots in
10-62 and
11-2-1.
   C.   Conditions: In approving variances, exceptions or waivers of
conditions, the city council may require such conditions as will, in its
judgment, secure substantially the purposes described in section
11-1-3 of this chapter.
   D.   Procedures: A petition for a variance, exception or waiver of
conditions shall be submitted in writing by the subdivider at the time when the
preliminary plat is filed for the consideration of the city council. The
petition shall state fully the grounds for the application and all of the facts
relied upon by the petitioner.
(Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007; amd. Ord. 2022-03, 3-16-2022)
11-1-13: ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the city manager to enforce these
requirements and to bring to the attention of the municipal prosecuting
attorney or his designated agent any violations of these regulations.
      2.   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of the land located
in a proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any part of the parcel before
a final plat of the subdivision has been approved in accordance with the
provisions of these regulations and filed with the county recorder.
      3.   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation
of the provisions of these regulations, nor shall the city have any obligation
to issue certificates of occupancy or to extend utility services to any parcel
created in violation of these regulations.
   B.   Violations And Penalty:
      1.   Nuisance: Any structure made or existing, and any use of land, in
violation of any provisions of this title, is a public nuisance and may be
abated by appropriate proceedings.
      2.   Misdemeanor: Any person violating or causing or permitting the
violation of any of the provisions of this title shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense
for each and every day during which any portion of any violation of this title
is committed, maintained, continued or permitted by such person, and shall be
punishable as herein provided.
   C.   Civil Enforcement: Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken in
law or in equity to prevent any violation of these regulations, to prevent
unlawful construction, to recover damages, to restrain, correct or abate a
violation, and to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or
premises. These remedies shall be in addition to the penalties described in
subsection B of this section. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Definitions
11-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of these regulations, certain numbers, abbreviations, terms and
words shall be used, interpreted and defined as set forth herein.
Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in the present
tense include the future tense, and words used in the plural include the
singular.
ADEQUATE PUBLIC FACILITIES: Facilities determined to be capable of supporting
and servicing the physical area and designated intensity of the proposed
subdivision as determined by the city council based upon specific levels of
service.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING: Housing that is affordable as defined by the department of
housing and urban development and by Utah Code Annotated, and is maintained for
occupancy exclusively for qualifying persons for a period of not less than
thirty (30) years through the use of a covenant or deed restriction, a
development agreement, or by transferring an interest to a state or municipal
housing agency or nonprofit housing organization.
AFFORDABLE UNIT: A designated unit of affordable housing which is sold or
rented to a household of very low, low, or moderate income.
AGRICULTURAL LANDS, HIGHLY PRODUCTIVE: Those lands identified by the natural
resources conservation service official soils report as prime agricultural
soils having national or statewide significance.
ALLEY: A public or private right of way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on some other street.
APPLICANT: The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or its representative
who shall have express written authority to act on behalf of the owner. Consent
shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
AREA OF BENEFIT: An area of land which is designated by the city council as
receiving benefits from or creating the need for the construction, acquisition
or improvement of a public facilities project.
AREA RELATED FACILITY: A capital improvement which is designated in the capital
improvements program as serving new development and which is not a site related
facility. "Area related facility" may include land dedication or construction
of an oversized capital improvement, whether located off site, or within or on
the perimeter of the development site.
ASSESSMENT DISTRICT: See definition of Public Facility Service Area.
AVERAGE DENSITY: See definition of Cluster Zoning.
BASE DISTRICT: The base district is a particular zoning "district", as defined
in section
10-2-1 of this code, where the lot size allowed is used as the basis to
calculate the total lots allowed.
BASE PRICE: Two and one-half (21/2) times the median income for a family of
four (4) persons for the city on the date on which a housing unit is sold.
BASE RENT: Thirty percent (30%) of the median income for the city.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, shorelines of waterways, or
boundary lines of municipalities.
BOND: Any form of a surety bond in an amount and form satisfactory to the city
council and city attorney. All bonds shall be approved by the city council and
city attorney whenever a bond is required by these regulations.
BUFFER: See definition of External Buffer.
BUILDABLE AREA: That portion of the platted lot, exclusive of the required
front, rear and side yard setbacks, and all designated sensitive lands.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or movable property of any kind.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The person designated by the city to enforce the zoning
ordinance 1 . If no city manager is appointed to administer these regulations,
the building and zoning inspector shall administer these regulations.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT: A public facility with a life expectancy of three (3) or
more years, to be owned and operated by or on behalf of the city.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM: A plan setting forth, by category of public
facilities, those capital improvements and that portion of their costs which
are attributable to serving new development within designated service areas for
such public facilities over a period of specified years (10-20). "Capital
improvements program" may refer either to the plan for a particular service
area or to the aggregation of capital improvements and the associated costs
programmed for all service areas for a particular category of public
facilities.
CENTRAL SEWER SYSTEM: A private sewer system, including collection and
treatment facilities, established by the developer to serve a new subdivision
in an outlying area.
CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM: A private water company formed by a developer to serve a
new subdivision in an outlying area. It includes water treatment and
distribution facilities.
CERTIFY: Whenever these regulations require that an agency or official certify
the existence of some fact or circumstance, the city may, by administrative
rule, require that such certification be made in any manner, oral or written,
which provides reasonable assurance of the accuracy of the certification.
CITY: Wellsville City, Utah.
CITY ATTORNEY: The licensed attorney designated by the city council to furnish
legal assistance for the administration of these regulations.
CITY COUNCIL: The body of the city having legislative authority to adopt
ordinances.
CITY ENGINEER: A licensed engineer designated by the city council to furnish
engineering assistance for the administration of these regulations.
CITY MANAGER: The officer appointed by the city council to administer these
regulations and to assist administratively other boards and commissions.
CLUSTER ZONING: A technique which allows lots to be reduced in size and
buildings sited closer together, provided the total development density does
not exceed that which could be constructed on the site under conventional
zoning and the remaining land is utilized for open space or public purposes.
COLLECTOR ROADS: A street intended to move traffic from local streets to
secondary arterials. A collector road serves a neighborhood or large
subdivision and is designed so that individual residential lots do not have
drives or other individual access entering the collector road.
COMMON OWNERSHIP: Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership or unincorporated association; or ownership by different
corporations, firms, partnerships, entities or unincorporated associations, in
which a stockbroker, partner or associate, or a member of his family, owns an
interest in each corporation, firm, partnership, entity or unincorporated
association.
COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT: See definition of Public Facility Service Area.
COMMUNITY VISUAL AMENITY: Any area with significant visual qualities valued by
the community, such as hillsides, masses of vegetation, visual focus areas,
termination of roadways, pastoral areas, and as identified in the general plan
or other support document of the city, which is mapped or described as a
"community visual amenity" within the sensitive lands or potentially sensitive
lands overlay.
CONCEPT PLAN: A submission of required information preparatory to the
preliminary plat to enable the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching
general agreement with the planning commission as to the form of the plat and
the objectives of these regulations.
CONCURRENCY: Requirement that development applications demonstrate that
adequate public facilities be available at prescribed levels of service
concurrent with the impact or occupancy of development units.
CONDOMINIUM: A unit available for sale in fee simple contained in a multi-
occupancy project, subject to covenants and restrictions placing control over
the common facilities in an elected board.
CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSING BY A SPONSOR: Construction of housing units by an
entity which includes the sponsor as a partner or joint venture; provided, that
the sponsor has general liability for the obligations of such entity.
Construction of housing shall include rehabilitation of substandard,
deteriorated units which:
   A.   Are unsafe, unsanitary or a danger to the health, safety or welfare of
an occupant;
   B.   Have a rehabilitation cost in excess of twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00) per unit; and
   C.   Have been occupied continuously for three (3) years prior to
commencement of construction to rehabilitate the units, except for those units
owned and operated by a government agency or a nonprofit organization.
CONSTRUCTION PLAN: The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat and
showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in the
subdivision or adjacent to the subdivision in accordance with the requirements,
conditions and specifications of the city council.
CONTIGUOUS: Lots are contiguous when at least one boundary line of one lot
touches a boundary line or lines of another lot.
COOPERATIVE: An entire project which is under the common ownership of a board
of directors with units leased and stock sold to individual cooperators.
CREDIT: The amount of the reduction of an impact fee or fees, payments or
charges for the same type of capital improvement for which the fee has been
charged.
CUL-DE-SAC: A local street with only one outlet that terminates in a vehicular
turnaround and having an appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient
reversal of traffic movement.
DENSITY: Number of dwelling units allowed per acre of land, excluding the
sensitive lands.
DENSITY, HIGH: Those residential zoning districts in which the density is
greater than 4.23 dwelling units per acre.
DENSITY, LOW: Those residential zoning districts in which the density is equal
to or less than one dwelling unit per acre.
DENSITY, MEDIUM: Those residential zoning districts in which the density is
greater than 1.0 dwelling unit per acre and less than 4.23 dwelling units per
acre.
DESIGN CRITERIA: Design standards and specifications that set forth specific
improvement requirements.
DESIGNATED UNIT: A housing unit identified and reported to the city manager by
the sponsor of an office development project subject to chapter 5 of this title
as a unit that shall be affordable to households of low or moderate income for
twenty (20) years.
DESIGNATED WETLAND: Any area identified in the general plan or other support
document of the city which has been officially designated as wetland by the
U.S. army corps of engineers, or the USDA natural resources conservation
service.
DEVELOPER: The owner of land proposed to be subdivided, or its representative
who is responsible for any undertaking that requires review and/or approval
under these regulations. See definition of Subdivider.
EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for another to use the owner's
property for a specified purpose.
EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNITS: See definition of Service Unit.
ESCROW: A deposit of cash with the city or escrow agent to secure the promise
to perform some act.
EXACTIONS: Requirement of development to dedicate or pay for all or a portion
of land or costs of public facilities as a condition of development approval.
EXPENDITURE: A sum of money paid out in return for some benefit or to fulfill
some obligation. The term includes binding contractual commitments, whether by
development agreement or otherwise, to make future expenditures as well as any
other substantial change in position.
EXTERNAL BUFFER: A naturally vegetated area or vegetated area along the
exterior boundaries of an entire development processed in accordance with a
multiphase or phased subdivision application, which is landscaped and
maintained as open space in order to eliminate or minimize conflicts between
such development and adjacent land uses.
FAIR SHARE: A properly balanced and well ordered plan to meet the housing needs
of the community and the region.
FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT: The map of a subdivision to be recorded after approval
by the planning commission and the city council, and any accompanying material
as described in these regulations.
FLEXIBLE ZONING: Zoning which permits uses of land and density of buildings and
structures different from those which are allowed as of right within the zoning
district in which the land is situated. "Flexible zoning" applications shall
include, but not be limited to, all special permits and special uses, planned
subdivisions, open space subdivisions, planned developments, group housing
projects, and average density or density zoning projects.
FLOOD HAZARD: Any area identified in the general plan or other support document
of the city which has been officially designated as a floodplain. The guiding
document for determination of flood hazards shall be the flood insurance flood
hazard mapping prepared by federal agencies.
FRONTAGE: That front of a lot abutting on a street or right of way and
ordinarily regarded as the front of the lot; but it shall not be considered as
the ordinary side of a corner lot.
FRONTAGE STREET: Any street to be constructed by the developer, or any existing
street where development shall take place on both sides.
GENERAL PLAN: A comprehensive plan for development of the city prepared by the
planning commission and adopted by the city council, pursuant to state law, and
including any part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to such
plan or parts thereof.
GRADE: The slope of a road, street or other public way specified in percentage
terms.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT AND HEALTH OFFICER: The agency and person designated by the
city council to administer the health regulations of the city.
HEALTH, SAFETY OR GENERAL WELFARE: The purpose for which municipalities may
adopt and enforce land use regulations for the prevention of harm or promotion
of public benefit to the community; commonly referred to as police power.
HIGHWAY, LIMITED ACCESS: A highway providing a trafficway for through traffic,
where owners or occupants of abutting property and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points and in such manner
as may be determined jointly by the Utah department of transportation and
Wellsville City having jurisdiction over the highway.
HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION: An association or organization, whether or not
incorporated, which operates for the benefit of individual property owners for
the purpose of property management and maintenance and is guided by recorded
covenants, conditions and restrictions.
HOUSEHOLD: Any person or persons who reside or intend to reside legally in the
same housing unit.
HOUSEHOLD OF LOW INCOME: A household composed of one or more persons with a
combined annual net income for all adult members which does not exceed the
qualifying limit for a lower income family of a size equivalent to the number
of persons residing in such household, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated.
HOUSEHOLD OF MODERATE INCOME: A household composed of one or more persons with
a combined annual net income for all adult members which does not exceed the
qualifying limit for a median income family of a size equivalent to the number
of persons residing in such household, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated.
HOUSING UNIT OR UNIT: A "dwelling unit", as defined in section
10-2-1 of this code.
IMPACT FEE 2 : A fee imposed on new development by the city pursuant to this
title in order to mitigate the impacts on community facilities and services
created by new development. Impact fees do not include the dedication of rights
of way or easements for such facilities, or the construction of such
improvements.
IMPROVEMENTS: See definition of Lot Improvement or Public Improvement.
INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: A septic tank, or any other approved sewage
treatment device approved by the health department.
INFILL DEVELOPMENT: Development designed to occupy scattered or vacant parcels
of land which remain after the majority of development has occurred in an area.
LANDSCAPING: Acting with the purpose of meeting specific criteria regarding
uses of outside space, including ground cover, buffers and shade trees.
LINKAGE: A program that requires developers constructing nonresidential
structures to either construct affordable housing units or pay money in lieu of
construction into a designated fund to provide housing for the future employees
of the site.
LOCAL ROAD: A road whose sole function is to provide access to abutting
properties and to other streets from individual properties and to provide right
of way for underground public and private infrastructure.
LOT: A tract, plot or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended
as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership, or possession, or for building development.
LOT AREA, RESIDUAL: The area difference between the lot size requirement in the
base zone and the minimum lot size as required in the zoning ordinance.
LOT, BUILDABLE: A parcel of land that has met all requirements of Title 11
Subdivisions. The buildable lot shall have been approved and recorded as a
final plat and shall have fulfilled all requirements for improvements.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding one hundred thirty five
degrees (135o).
LOT IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, place, work of art or other object
situated on a lot.
LOT, UNBUILDABLE: A parcel of land that has not been approved and recorded as a
final plat by the City of Wellsville. A lot can also be unbuildable even if
recorded as a final plat, but has no adequate buildable area within the lot
because of sensitive lands as defined in the Title 10 and Title 11 or if the
lot is not serviceable by required municipal services. An existing lot shall
not be buildable simply because it was approved and recorded. All lots shall
conform to the full measure of the City Code even though recorded correctly or
incorrectly.
MARKET VALUE: The fair market value of a designated unit at the time such value
is determined by the city manager.
MASTER PRELIMINARY PLAT: That portion of a preliminary plat submitted in
connection with a multiphase or phased subdivision application which provides
the information and graphics meeting the requirements of this title for the
purpose of implementing an integrated development scheme for all phases of the
proposed subdivision.
MODEL HOME: A dwelling unit used initially for display purposes which typifies
the type of units that will be constructed in the subdivision and which will
not be permanently occupied during its use as a model.
MONEY IN LIEU: Payment of money into a municipally earmarked fund to provide
for the future acquisition of land or construction of facilities off site in
place of dedicating land or providing such facility on site.
NATURAL DRAINAGEWAYS: Linear topographic depressions which show evidence of
channeling natural runoff from storms and snowmelt as identified in the general
plan or other support document of the city which has been officially designated
as a natural drainageway within the sensitive lands or potentially sensitive
lands overlay.
NATURAL RESOURCE AMENITIES: Area considered to a valuable natural resource,
such as waterways, water bodies, vegetation, wildlife habitat, topographic or
geologic features, or any combination as identified in the general plan or
other support document of the city, which has been officially designated a
natural resource amenity within the sensitive lands or potentially sensitive
lands overlay.
NEIGHBORHOOD PARK AND RECREATION IMPROVEMENT FUND: A special fund established
by the city council to retain monies contributed by developers in accordance
with the "money in lieu" provisions of these regulations.
NEW DEVELOPMENT: A project involving: 1) the construction, reconstruction,
redevelopment, conversion, structural alteration, relocation or enlargement of
any structure; or 2) any use or extension of land, any of which has the effect
of increasing the requirements for capital improvements, measured by number of
service units to be generated by such activity, and which requires either the
approval of a plat pursuant to the city subdivision regulations, the issuance
of a building permit, or connection to the city water or sanitary sewer system.
NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION: A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial.
NOTICE OF NONCOMPLIANCE: A notice issued by the city manager informing a
property owner or other affected party that a specific requirement of the city
code has not been met. The notice of noncompliance may be recorded on affected
property with the county recorder.
NOTICE TO PROCEED: A notice issued by the city manager informing the developer
of a subdivision that the concept plan is in compliance with these regulations
and that the applicant may proceed to apply for preliminary plat approval.
OFF SITE: Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the common ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
OFFICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: Any new construction, addition, extension,
conversion or enlargement, or combination thereof, of an existing structure
which includes any gross square feet of office space.
OFFICE USE: Space within a structure, or portion thereof, intended or primarily
suitable for occupancy by persons or entities which perform, provide for their
own benefit, or provide to others at that location, services, including, but
not limited to, the following: professional, banking, insurance, management,
consulting, technical, sales and design; or the office functions of
manufacturing and warehousing businesses, but excluding retail uses; repair;
any business characterized by the physical transfer of tangible goods to
customers on the premises; wholesale shipping, receiving and storage; and
design showcases or any other space intended and primarily suitable for display
of goods. This definition shall include all uses encompassed within the meaning
of this code.
OFFICIAL MAP: The map established by the city council pursuant to law, showing
the streets, highways, parks, drainage systems and setback lines laid out,
adopted and established by law, and any amendments or additions adopted by the
city council resulting from the approval of subdivision plats by the city
council, and the subsequent filing of approved plats.
OFFSET: The amount of the reduction of an impact fee designed to fairly reflect
the value of area related facilities or other oversized facilities, pursuant to
rules herein established, or administrative guidelines provided by a developer
pursuant to the city subdivision or zoning regulations or requirements.
OPEN SPACE: Any private or public land that is determined to be sensitive lands
consistent with these requirements or other lands preserved by the developer
for common use by a homeowners' association, or by the public. Open space may
also be held by a conservation organization for the purpose of land
conservation. Open space shall not contain any land included in the minimum lot
area requirements.
ORDINANCE: Any legislative action, however denominated, of a city which has the
force of law, including any amendment or repeal of any ordinance.
OWNED UNIT: A designated unit which is a condominium, stock cooperative or
community apartment.
OWNER: The record owners, including any person, group of persons, firm or
firms, corporation or corporations, or any other legal entity having legal
title to or sufficient proprietary interest in the land recognized by the Cache
County recorder with a designated and individual tax identification number.
PARCEL SIZE, GROSS: The total area of a proposed subdivision and shall be
determined from existing recorded legal descriptions or from a licensed
surveyor's plat. It shall include all land within the parcel, including
sensitive lands, open space, utility easements, etc., and road rights of way,
easements and lotted areas.
PERFORMANCE CRITERIA: Regulation of development based on open space ratio,
impervious surface ratio, density and floor area ratio.
PERIMETER STREET: Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
PERSON: Any individual or group of individuals, or any corporation, general or
limited partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association, or governmental
or quasi-governmental entity.
PHASED SUBDIVISION APPLICATION: An application for subdivision approval
submitted pursuant to a master preliminary plat, or at the option of the
subdivider, pursuant to a specific plan in which the applicant proposes to
immediately subdivide the property but will develop in one or more individual
phases over a period of time. A "phased subdivision application" may include an
application for approval of, or conversion to, horizontal or vertical
condominiums, nonresidential development projects, planned developments, mixed
use projects and residential developments.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (PD): A development meeting the requirements for a planned
development which is designed on a tract of land with individual ownership of
dwelling units planned and developed as an integral unit and consisting of
common area or open space maintained by a homeowners' association.
PLANNING COMMISSION 3 : The city planning commission established in accordance
with Utah Code Annotated.
POLICE POWER: Inherent, delegated or authorized legislative power for purposes
of regulation to secure health, safety and general welfare.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the planning commission and city council for approval.
PRIMARY ARTERIAL: A road intended to move through traffic to and from major
attractors such as central business districts, regional shopping centers,
colleges and/or universities, military installations, major industrial areas,
and similar traffic generators within the governmental unit; and/or as a route
for traffic between communities or large areas and/or which carries high
volumes of traffic.
PUBLIC FACILITIES PROJECT: Any and all public improvements, the need for which
is directly or indirectly generated by development, including, but not limited
to, the following:
   A.   Water mains, pipes, conduits, tunnels, hydrants, pressure stations,
reservoirs, pressure reducing stations, and other necessary works and
appliances for providing water service.
   B.   Lines, conduits and other necessary works and appliances for providing
electric power service.
   C.   Mains, pipes and other necessary works and appliances for providing gas
service.
   D.   Poles, posts, wires, pipes, conduits, lamps and other necessary works
and appliances for lighting purposes.
   E.   Sidewalks, crosswalks, steps, safety zones, platforms, seats, statuary,
fountains, culverts, bridges, curbs, gutters, tunnels, subways or viaducts,
parks and parkways, recreation areas, including all structures, buildings and
other facilities necessary to make parks and parkways and recreation areas
useful for the purposes for which intended.
   F.   Sanitary sewers or instrumentalities of sanitation, together with the
necessary outlets, pumping stations, cesspools, manholes, catch basins, flush
tanks, septic tanks, disposal plants, connecting sewers, ditches, drains,
conduits, tunnels, channels or other appurtenances.
   G.   Drains, tunnels, sewers, conduits, culverts and channels for drainage
purposes; with necessary outlets, cesspools, manholes, catch basins, flush
tanks, septic tanks, disposal plants, connecting sewers, ditches, drains,
conduits, channels, and appurtenances.
   H.   Pipes, hydrants and appliances for fire protection.
   I.   Retaining walls, embankments, buildings and any other structures or
facilities necessary or suitable in connection with any of the work mentioned
in this definition.
   J.   Compaction of land, change of grade or contours, construction of
caissons, retaining walls, drains and other structures suitable for the purpose
of stabilizing land.
   K.   Works, systems or facilities for the transportation of people,
including rolling stock and other equipment appurtenant thereto.
   L.   All other work auxiliary to that described in subsection K of this
definition, which may be required to carry out that work, including terminals
and intermediate stations, structures, platforms or other facilities which may
be necessary for the loading of people into and unloading of people from such
transportation facilities.
   M.   The grading or regrading, the graveling or regraveling, and the paving
or repaving of streets.
   N.   Acquisition, construction, improvement and equipping of temporary and
permanent school buildings.
   O.   Acquisition, construction, improvement and equipping of fire stations.
   P.   Acquisition, construction, improvement and equipping of police
stations.
   Q.   Acquisition, construction and installation of traffic signs, signals,
lights and lighting.
   R.   Public works maintenance facilities.
   S.   All other work auxiliary to any of the above which may be required to
carry out that work, including, but not limited to, the maintenance of public
facilities projects and administrative, engineering, architectural and legal
work performed in connection with establishing, implementing and monitoring
public facilities projects.
   T.   Acquisition of any and all property, easements and rights of way which
may be required to carry out the purposes of the project.
PUBLIC FACILITY: Any city service or utility for which impact fees are charged.
"Public facility" excludes those improvements that are site or project related
facilities.
PUBLIC FACILITY IMPACT FEE: An impact fee to be imposed and collected by the
city for services or utilities currently required by new development.
PUBLIC FACILITY IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM: The adopted plan, as may be amended from
time to time, which identifies the public facilities and their costs for each
public facility benefit area or subarea, and which serves new development for a
period not to exceed ten (10) years, and which are to be financed in whole or
in part through the imposition of public facilities fees pursuant to this
title.
PUBLIC FACILITY SERVICE AREA: The service area for those services and utilities
for which impact fees are charged.
PUBLIC HEARING: An adjudicatory proceeding held by the planning commission and/
or city council, preceded by published notice and actual notice to certain
persons, and at which certain persons, including the applicant, may call
witnesses and introduce evidence for the purpose of demonstrating that plat
approval should or should not be granted. Witnesses shall be sworn and subject
to cross examination. The rules of civil procedure binding on the courts shall
not, however, bind the planning commission or the city council.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrianway, tree, lawn, off street parking area, lot improvement, or other
facility for which the city may ultimately assume the responsibility for
maintenance and operation, or which may effect an improvement for which city
responsibility is established.
PUBLIC MEETING: A meeting of the planning commission, or city council, preceded
by notice, open to the public and at which the public may, at the discretion of
the body holding the public meeting, be heard.
RECOUPMENT: The imposition of an impact fee to reimburse the city for capital
improvements previously oversized to serve new development.
REGISTERED ENGINEER: An engineer properly licensed and registered in the state
of Utah.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor properly licensed and registered in
the state of Utah.
RENTAL UNIT: A designated unit which is not a condominium, stock cooperative or
community apartment.
RESUBDIVISION: Any change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat
that affects any street layout on the map or area reserved thereon for public
use, or any lot line, or that affects any map or plan legally recorded prior to
the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
RETAIL USE: Space within any structure, or portion thereof, intended or
primarily suitable for occupancy by persons or entities which supply
commodities to customers on the premises, including, but not limited to,
stores, shops, restaurants, bars, eating and drinking businesses, and the uses
defined in title 10 of this code, and also including all space accessory to
such retail use.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a street,
crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or for any other special
use. The usage of the term "right of way" for land platting purposes shall mean
that every right of way hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to
be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right of way
and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Rights
of way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm
drains, shade trees or any other use involving maintenance by a public agency
shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on which such right
of way is established.
ROAD CLASSIFICATION: For the purpose of providing for the development of the
streets, highways, roads and rights of way in the governmental unit, and for
their future improvement, reconstruction, realignment and necessary widening,
including provision for curbs and sidewalks, each existing street, highway,
road and right of way, and those located on approved and filed plats, have been
designated on the official map of the city and classified therein. The
classification of each street, highway, road and right of way is based upon its
location in the respective zoning districts of the city and its present and
estimated future traffic volume and its relative importance and function as
specified in the general plan of the city. The required improvements shall be
measured as set forth for each street classification on the official map.
ROAD, DEAD END: A road, or a portion of a road, with only one vehicular traffic
outlet.
ROAD RIGHT OF WAY WIDTH: The distance between property lines measured at right
angles to the centerline of the street.
SALE OR LEASE: Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any possessory
interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise, intestate
succession, or other transfer of an interest in a subdivision, or part thereof,
whether by metes and bounds or lot and block description.
SCREENING: Either:
   A.   A strip at least ten feet (10') wide of densely planted (or having
equivalent natural growth) shrubs or trees at least four feet (4') high at the
time of planting, of a type that will form a year round dense screen at least
six feet (6') high; or
   B.   An opaque wall or barrier or uniformly painted fence at least six feet
(6') high.
SECONDARY ARTERIAL: A road intended to collect and distribute traffic in a
manner similar to primary arterials, except that these roads service minor
traffic generating areas such as community commercial areas, primary and
secondary educational facilities, hospitals, major recreational areas, churches
and offices, and are designed to carry traffic from collector streets to the
system of primary arterials.
SECURITY: The letter of credit or cash escrow or other form of security as
approved by the city attorney which is provided by the applicant to secure its
promises in the subdivision improvement agreement.
SEISMIC HAZARDS: Any areas where geologic conditions would pose a threat to
persons or property if developed and as further identified in the general plan
or other support document of the city which has been officially designated as a
seismic hazard within the sensitive lands or potentially sensitive lands
overlay.
SERVICE AREA: The area for a particular category of public facilities within
the jurisdiction of the city and within which impact fees or other fees are
charged for capital improvements will be collected for new development
occurring within such area and within which fees so collected will be expended
for those types of improvements for that category of public facility identified
in the public facility improvements program. Service areas may be subdivided
into subareas for purposes of assuring that impact fees collected and expended
therein reasonably benefit new development within such areas.
SERVICE UNIT: Any service or utility, which is the standardized measure of
consumption, use or generation attributable to a new unit of development for
that category of public facility and which is set forth in the impact fee
schedules.
SETBACK: The distance between a building and the nearest property line, the
distance of which is set forth in the zoning ordinance.
SHADE TREE: A tree in a public place, street, special easement or right of way
adjoining a street as provided in these regulations.
SITE RELATED FACILITY: An improvement or facility which is for the primary use
or benefit of a new development and/or which is for the primary purpose of safe
and adequate provision of services or utilities for which impact fees are not
charged by the city to serve the new development, and which is not included in
the capital improvements program and for which the developer or property owner
is solely responsible under subdivision or other applicable regulations.
SPECIFIC PLAN: A document encompassing a specific geographic area of the city
which is prepared for the purpose of specifically implementing the city general
plan by: a) refining the policies of the general plan to a specific geographic
area; b) containing specific recommendation as to the detailed policies and
regulations applicable to a focused development scheme. The specific plan shall
consist of goals, objectives and policies; requirements for capital
improvements; the level of service required for public facilities; physical and
environmental conditions; housing and land use characteristics of the area; and
maps, diagrams and other appropriate materials showing existing and future
conditions.
SPONSOR: An applicant seeking approval for construction of an office
development project subject to chapter 5 of this title, such applicant's
successors and assigns, and/or any entity which controls or is under common
control with such applicant.
STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS: The currently adopted document containing the
design standards and specifications for construction of all public facilities,
structures and utilities.
STEEP SLOPES: Any area with slopes twenty percent (20%) or steeper and as
identified in the general plan or other support document of the city which has
been officially designated as steep slopes within the sensitive lands or
potentially sensitive lands overlay.
STREET: An open public or private way for the passage of vehicles, people and
animals. Synonymous with "road" or "highway".
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected.
SUBDIVIDE: The act or process of creating a subdivision.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person who: a) having an interest in land, causes it, directly
or indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision; or who b) directly or
indirectly, sells, leases or develops, or offers to sell, lease or develop, or
advertises to sell, lease or develop, any interest, lot, parcel, site, unit or
plat in a subdivision; or who c) engages directly or through an agent in the
business of selling, leasing, developing or offering for sale, lease or
development a subdivision, or any interest, lot, parcel, site, unit or plat in
a subdivision; and who d) is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under
direct or indirect common control with any of the foregoing.
SUBDIVISION 4 : A. Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be
divided into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or other
division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale,
lease or development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other
plans, terms and conditions.
   B.   "Subdivision" includes:
       1.   The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded
instrument; and
      2.   Except as provided in subsection C of this definition, divisions of
land for residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used
for commercial, agricultural and industrial purposes.
   C.   "Subdivision" does not include:
      1.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel
of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable land
use ordinance;
      2.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining unsubdivided
properties adjusting their mutual boundary if:
         a.   No new lot is created; and
         b.   The adjustment does not violate applicable land use ordinances;
      3.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
         a.   Revising the legal description of more than one contiguous
unsubdivided parcel of property into one legal description encompassing all
such parcels of property; or
         b.   Joining a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided, if the joinder does not violate
applicable land use ordinances; or
      4.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
properties adjusting their mutual boundary if:
         a.   No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the
adjustment; and
         b.   The adjustment will not violate any applicable land use
ordinance.
   D.   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a "subdivision" under
this definition as to the unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the
unsubdivided parcel to the city subdivision ordinance.
SUBDIVISION AGENT: Any person who represents, or acts for or on behalf of, a
subdivider or developer, in selling, leasing or developing, or offering to
sell, lease or develop any interest, lot, parcel, unit, site or plat in a
subdivision, except an attorney at law whose representation of another person
consists solely of rendering legal services.
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT: A contract entered into by the applicant and
the city council on behalf of the city by which the applicant promises to
complete the required public improvements within the subdivision within a
specified time period following final subdivision plat approval.
SUBDIVISION PLAT: The final map or drawing, described in these regulations, on
which the subdivider's plan of subdivision is approved by the planning
commission for recommendation to the city council and which, if approved by the
city council, may be submitted to the county recorder for filing.
TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT: Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider during
construction of the subdivision and removed prior to the final release of the
performance bond or other security.
TRACT: A lot. The term "tract" is used interchangeably with the term "lot",
particularly in the context of subdivision, where a "tract" is subdivided into
several lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, condominiums, tracts or interests.
TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS (TDR): The conveyance of development rights by
deed, easement or other legal instrument, authorized by ordinance or
regulation, to another parcel of land and the recording of that conveyance.
UNSTABLE SOILS: Those areas where soil instability would be a hazard to
development and cannot be mitigated without massive grading and site
modification. These areas are also identified in the general plan or other
support document of the city and officially designated as sensitive lands or
potentially sensitive lands.
UNSUBDIVIDED LANDS: Those lands within ownership of the city, homeowners'
association, or land trust containing sensitive lands or potentially sensitive
lands.
UTILITY CORRIDORS: Those areas where utility easements and obstructions are a
limitation to development and as identified in the general plan or other
support document of the city which have been officially designated as a utility
corridor and as sensitive lands or potentially sensitive lands.
VESTED RIGHTS: Right to initiate or continue the establishment of a use that
will be contrary to a restriction or regulation coming into effect when the
project associated with the use is completed.
WATER RECHARGE AND CULINARY WATER SOURCE ZONES 1 : Those areas within the city
which are, by state law, required setbacks surrounding sources of culinary
water or which have been identified by the state or the city as important water
recharge areas.
(Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 2022-03, 3-16-2022; Ord. 2022-
04, 3-16-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-3-1 of this code.
2 1. See title 9, chapter 2 of this code.
3 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
4 1. UCA § 10-9a-103.
1 1. See title 8, chapter 2 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL PROCESS
SECTION:
11-3-1: General Procedure
11-3-2: Concept Plan
11-3-3: Preliminary Plat
11-3-4: Amendments To Preliminary Plat
11-3-5: Final Subdivision Plat
11-3-6: Vested Rights And Effect Of Approval
11-3-7: Signing And Recordation Of Subdivision Plat
11-3-8: Appeals To City Council
11-3-9: Suspension And Invalidation Of Final Plat
11-3-1: GENERAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Classification Of Subdivisions: Before any land is subdivided, the
owner of the property proposed to be subdivided, or an authorized agent, shall
apply for and secure approval of the proposed subdivision in accordance with
the following procedures, which include three (3) principal steps for
subdivisions:
      1.   Concept plan;
      2.   Preliminary plat;
      3.   Final subdivision plat.
   B.   Official Submission Dates: The date of the meeting of the planning
commission on which the application first appears shall constitute the official
submission date of the plat on which the statutory period required for formal
approval, conditional approval or disapproval of the concept, preliminary or
final subdivision plat shall commence to run.
   C.   Subdivision Fees: An application fee and a fee for each lot unit shall
be assessed for each phase of processing of a subdivision. The amount of fees
shall be based on a fee schedule adopted by resolution or ordinance by the city
council. The applicant shall also reimburse the city for application fees and
professional fees upon completion of each phase of processing. All fees
associated with subdivisions shall be set by resolution or ordinance. The city
manager shall collect all fees associated with the application and processing
prior to recordation of the final plat. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-3-2: CONCEPT PLAN:
   A.   Discussion Of Requirements: Before preparing the concept plan for a
subdivision, the applicant shall schedule an appointment and meet with the city
manager, or other designated person, to discuss the procedure for approval of a
subdivision plat, to obtain pertinent regulations and the requirements as to
general layout of streets, reservations of land, street improvements, drainage,
sewerage, fire protection, protection of sensitive lands, and similar matters,
as well as the availability of existing services.
   B.   Application Procedure And Requirements: Prior to subdividing land and
after meeting with the city manager, or other designated person, the owner of
the land, or authorized agent, shall file an application for approval of a
concept plan with the Planning Commission and/or city manager. The application
shall:
      1.   Be made on forms available at the city office;
      2.   Identify all contiguous holdings of the owner, including land in
"common ownership1', as defined in section
11-2-1 of this title, accompanied by an affidavit of ownership, which shall
include the dates the respective holdings of land were acquired, together with
the book and page recorded in the county clerk and recorder's office. The
affidavit shall advise as to the legal owner of the property, the contract
owner of the property, the date the contract of sale was executed, and, if any
corporations are involved, a complete list of all directors, officers and
stockholders of each corporation owning more than five percent (5%) of any
class of stock;
      3.   Provide a drawing, to engineer's scale, showing topography at five
foot (5') intervals (minimum), and including all land which the applicant
proposes to subdivide and all land immediately adjacent extending three hundred
feet (300') from the boundaries of the subject property, or of that directly
opposite the subject property, extending three hundred feet (300') from the
street frontage of opposite land. The names of owners of all adjacent land
shall be shown on the concept plans shown in the county recorder's files. This
information may be shown on a separate current property plat reproduction from
the county recorder's office showing the subdivision superimposed on the plat
map;
      4.   The concept plan must show future streets, development parcels,
project phasing, adjacent streets and utilities locations, easements and
sensitive lands for the total development area. The concept plan must guide the
project through all phases. The concept plan may be revised and approved by the
Planning Commission as phases of the project are developed. Complete
information about the size and scope of the project must be provided. Cross
sections or other technical illustrations may be required to communicate the
intent of the project and shall be required if deemed necessary by the Planning
Commission;
      5.   Be accompanied by a minimum of three (3) twenty four inch by thirty
six inch (24" x 36"), and ten (10) eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17")
copies of the concept plan as described in these regulations and complying in
all respects with these regulations;
      6.   Be presented to the city manager; The application shall include an
address, telephone number and fax number of an agent who shall be authorized to
receive all notices required by these regulations.
   C.   Notice To Proceed: If the concept plan constitutes a subdivision, the
city manager shall authorize the development to proceed only if the concept
plan complies with all applicable laws governing the subdivision of land. At a
minimum, the notice to proceed shall be dictated by the requirements and record
of the Planning Commission. After concept plan approval, the applicant must
first file an application for approval of a preliminary plat, as provided in
these regulations, before filing a final subdivision plat for approval.
   D.   Referral Of Concept Plan: The city manager shall request that all
applicable officials and agencies, to whom a request for review has been made,
submit their report to the city manager in a timely manner after receipt of the
request. The city manager will consider all the reports submitted by the
officials and agencies concerning the concept plan and shall forward it to the
Planning Commission and City Council for review.
   E.   Public Meeting and Recommendation by Planning Commission: Upon receipt
of a formal application for concept plan approval and all accompanying
material, the city manager shall place the application on the agenda for the
earliest possible regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission. A
motion and decision may be continued to the next meeting of the commission if
it is found that more information is needed before making a recommendation. The
Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City Council to approve,
conditionally approve, or disapprove the subdivision concept plan. A
recommendation to deny shall include findings of fact that the proposed will
have a compelling, countervailing adverse consequence on the public interest of
the city. The proceeding shall be guided by the Utah Code 10-9a-509.(1)(a)(ii):
“An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the
application conforms to the requirements of the applicable land use
regulations, land use decisions, and development standards in effect when the
applicant submits a complete application and pays application fees, unless: the
land use authority, on the record, formally finds that a compelling,
countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving the
application and specifies the compelling, countervailing public interest in
writing...”
   F.   Public Hearing of the City Council: Upon recommendation of the concept
plan by the Planning Commission, the city manager shall set a public hearing by
the City Council in the manner prescribed by Utah Code Annotated. The City
Council shall approve, conditionally approve, disapprove, or continue action on
the subdivision concept plan. A motion to disapprove shall include written
findings of fact that the proposed will have compelling, countervailing adverse
consequence on the public interest of the city as ennumerated in 10-3-2-
E above. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007; amd. Res. 2021-09, 11-3-2021)
11-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application Procedure And Requirements: The applicant shall file with
the city manager an application for approval of a preliminary plat if it elects
to proceed. The preliminary plat shall conform substantially with the concept
plan submitted by the applicant and which formed the basis for the notice to
proceed as defined in the record of the Planning Commission. The application
shall:
      1.   Be made on forms available at the city office, together with all
fees as shown on the most recently adopted fee schedule.
      2.   Include all land which the applicant proposes to develop and all
land immediately adjacent extending three hundred feet (300') from the
boundaries of the subject property, or of that directly opposite the subject
property, extending three hundred feet (300') from the street frontage of
opposite land. The names of owners of all adjacent land shall be shown on the
plat as shown in the county recorder's files.
      3.   Be accompanied by a minimum of three (3) twenty four inch by thirty
six inch (24" x 36"), and ten (10) eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17")
copies of the preliminary plat, as described in these regulations. All drawings
and reductions must be prepared and submitted in engineer's scale.
      4.   Comply in all respects with the approved concept plan.
      5.   Be presented to the city manager at least three (3) calendar weeks
prior to a regular meeting of the Planning Commission.
      6.   Show that the subdivider has made provision of open space, as
required herein.
   B.   Public Meeting of the Planning Commission: Upon receipt of a formal
application for preliminary plat approval and all required material, the city
manager shall schedule a review of the preliminary plat at the earliest
possible regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission. The city
manager shall submit a notice for publication according to Utah Code Annotated,
and shall maintain file copies of the plans and application when appropriate
for public review prior to the Planning Commission meeting. A motion and
decisions may be continued to the next meeting of the commission if it is found
that more information is needed before making a recommendation. The Planning
Commission shall make a recommendation to the City Council to approve,
conditionally approve, or disapprove the subdivision preliminary plat. A
recommendation to deny shall include written findings of fact that the proposed
will have compelling, countervailing adverse consequence on the public interest
of the city as enumerated in
10-3-2E.
   C.   Public Hearing of the City Council: Upon recommendation of the
preliminary plat by the Planning Commission, the city manager shall set a
public hearing by the City Council in the manner prescribed by Utah Code
Annotated. After the City Council has reviewed the preliminary plat, required
reports, any municipal or staff recommendations and testimony and exhibits
submitted, any required changes and/or additions shall be specified in the
minutes of the City Council. The City Council shall approve, conditionally
approve, disapprove, or continue action on the preliminary plat. These actions
will be justified by findings of fact, included in the meeting record. A motion
to disapprove the preliminary plat shall include written findings of fact as
defined in the Utah Code enumerated in
10-3-2-E. If the City Council disapproves the proposed subdivision, the
applicant may execute an appeal in the manner prescribed.
   D.   Standard Findings For Approval Of Preliminary Plats: No preliminary
plat of a proposed subdivision shall be approved unless the applicant proves by
clear and convincing evidence that:
      1.   Definite provision has been made for a water supply system that is
of sufficient quantity, dependability and quality to provide an appropriate
supply of water for the type of subdivision proposed;
      2.   Adequate provision has been made for connection to the city sewer
system and that sufficient capacity is available or that another acceptable
system has been approved by the City Council and applicable state agencies;
      3.   All areas of the proposed subdivision which may involve sensitive
lands have been identified by the subdivider and that the proposed uses of
these areas are compatible with regulations of this title;
      4.   The subdivider has the financial ability to complete the proposed
subdivision in accordance with all applicable Federal, state and local laws and
regulations;
      5.   The proposed subdivision will not result in the scattered
subdivision of land that leaves undeveloped parcels of land lacking urban
services between developed parcels;
      6.   The subdivider has taken every effort to mitigate the impact of the
proposed subdivision on public health, safety and welfare. The City Council is
authorized to disapprove, with written findings of fact, the preliminary plat
even though the land proposed for subdivision is zoned appropriately and the
proposed use is consistent with the general plan, unless all requirements are
fulfilled according to this title.
   E.   Special Requirements Involving Sensitive Lands 1: The following
additional information shall be required by the Planning Commission for all
subdivisions when involving sensitive lands and when located within a
residential critical area (RCA) zone, a recreational planned development (RPD)
zone, and whenever involving state or federal protection status:
      1.   Soils Report: A soils report shall be prepared by a qualified soils
engineer, and must contain at least the following information:
         a.   A slope analysis with a contour map accurately depicting no less
than five foot (5') contour intervals. Slope classifications shall be
identified on a colored slope map in percentage of gradients in the following
categories:
 
Class 1 0 percent - 9 percent
Class 2 10 percent - 19 percent
Class 3 20 percent and greater (undevelopable)
 
         b.   Accepted soils engineering tests to determine bearing capacity,
settlement potential and shrink/swell potential of the site.
         c.   An estimate of the normal highest elevation of the season high
water table and the location of swamps, seeps or springs with the reasons for
the occurrence of these underground water sources.
         d.   A written statement by the person or firm preparing the soils
report identifying the means proposed to minimize hazard to life, property,
adverse effects on the safety, use or stability of a public right of way or
drainage channel.
      2.   Geology Report: A geology report shall be prepared by a person or
firm qualified by training and experience to have expert knowledge of the
subject. The report shall include mapping of geologic hazards and must identify
author and date of the data upon which the report is based. The report must
include an analysis of the geologic conditions, conclusions and recommendations
regarding the effect of geologic conditions on the planned residential
subdivision and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed.
The report must include a written statement by the person or firm preparing the
report, identifying the means proposed to minimize hazard to life or property,
adverse effects on the safety, use or stability of a public right of way or
drainage channel, and adverse impact on the natural environment.
      3.   Vegetation Plan: The vegetation plan and report shall be prepared by
a person or firm qualified by training and experience to have expert knowledge
of the subject, and shall include the following:
         a.   A plan of the proposed revegetation of the site, detailing
existing vegetation to be preserved, new vegetation to be planted and any
modifications to existing vegetation.
         b.   A plan for the preservation of existing vegetation during
construction.
         c.   A vegetation maintenance program, including initial and
continuing maintenance necessary.
         d.   A written statement by the person or firm preparing the report,
identifying any vegetation problems and further stating an opinion as to the
ability of the proposed plan to mitigate or eliminate such problems in a manner
as to prevent hazard to life or property, adverse effects on the safety, use or
stability of a public way or drainage channel, and adverse impact on the
natural environment.
      4.   Waiver Of Reports: Reports on sensitive lands may be waived by the
Planning Commission when it determines that the land is void of sensitive lands
and a hazard to the public safety, health and welfare does not exist.
   F.   Public Improvements: The Planning Commission shall require the
applicant to indicate on the plat all streets and public improvements to be
dedicated, all special districts for water, fire and utility improvements,
which shall be required to be established or extended, and any other special
requirements deemed necessary by the Planning Commission in order to conform
the subdivision plat to the official map and the general plan of the city.
   G.   Effective Period Of Preliminary Plat Approval: The approval of a
preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of one year from the date that
the preliminary plat is approved by the Planning Commission and the City
Council, at the end of which time the applicant must have submitted a final
subdivision plat for approval. If a final subdivision plat is not submitted for
final approval within the one year period, the preliminary approval shall be
null and void, and the applicant shall be required to submit a new plat for
concept plan review, subject to the then existing zoning restrictions and
subdivision regulations.
   H.   Zoning And Subdivision Regulations: Every preliminary plat shall
conform to existing zoning regulations and subdivision regulations applicable
at the time that the proposed preliminary plat is submitted for the approval to
the Planning Commission unless the City Council has previously started the
process to take or has taken official action toward amending the applicable
zoning and/or subdivision regulations.
   I.   Grading Of Site Prior To Final Approval: Subsequent to preliminary
approval, the developer may apply for a topsoil and excavation permit from the
Planning Commission, or such other agency or person, as no grading of the site
shall occur until the final plat is approved. Thereafter, no grading of the
site shall occur without first obtaining the necessary permit from the person
or agency as the City Council shall direct and the posting of such security as
is required as a condition to receiving the permit. The City Council shall
direct, and upon receipt of the permit, may commence construction to the grades
and elevations required by the approved preliminary plat. However, grading may
not occur in areas of sensitive lands unless all requirements for sensitive
lands are fulfilled.
   J.   City Council Meeting: After the meeting of the Planning Commission for
preliminary plat approval, the city manager shall schedule a review of the
preliminary plat at the earliest possible regularly scheduled meeting of the
City Council. The city manager shall submit a notice for publication according
to Utah Code Annotated, and shall maintain file copies of the plans and
application when appropriate for public review prior to the City Council
meeting. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007; amd. Res. 2021-09, 11-3-2021)
11-3-4: AMENDMENTS TO PRELIMINARY PLAT:
At any time after preliminary plat approval and before submission of a final
plat, the applicant may request of the city manager that an amendment be made
in the approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat. Under
regulations established by the Planning Commission, the city manager may agree
to proposed amendments that are deemed to be minor. If the proposed amendment
is major, the Planning Commission shall recommend action to amend the
preliminary plat to the City Council. The City Council shall hold a public
hearing on the proposed major amendment, and the hearing shall be limited to
whether the proposed major amendment should or should not be approved. The City
Council shall approve or disapprove any proposed major amendment and make any
modifications in the terms and conditions of preliminary plat approval
reasonably related to the proposed amendment. If the applicant is unwilling to
accept the proposed major amendment under the terms and conditions required by
the City Council, the applicant may withdraw the proposed major amendment, A
major amendment shall include, but is not limited to, any amendment that
results in or has the effect of decreasing open space in the subdivision by ten
percent (10%) or more, or increasing density in the subdivision by ten percent
(10%) or more. An applicant may not propose more than two (2) amendments,
whether major or minor, to any preliminary plat. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007; amd.
2009 Code; Res. 2021-09, 11-3-2021)
11-3-5: FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT 1 :
   A.   Application Procedure And Requirements: Following the approvals of the
preliminary plat, the applicant may proceed with the subdivision by filing the
final plat with the City Council/Planning Commission. The final plat/applicant
shall:
      1.   Pay fees as shown on the most recently adopted fee schedule.
      2.   Include the entire subdivision, or section thereof, which derives
access from an existing state, county or city road.
      3.   Be accompanied by a minimum of three (3) twenty four inch by thirty
six inch (24" x 36") and ten (10) eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17")
copies of the subdivision plat and the construction plans, as described in
these regulations.
      4.   Comply in all respects with the preliminary plat, as approved.
      5.   Be presented to the city manager at least three (3) weeks prior to a
regular meeting of the commission.
      6.   Submit with copies of the final plat, three (3) copies of the final
draft of any restrictive covenants and/or covenants, conditions and
restrictions (CC&Rs) to be recorded with the final plat.
      7.   Be accompanied by a dedication to the public of all streets, city
uses, utilities, parks, open space and easements, in a form approved by the
city attorney, which form shall be as follows and included on the final plat:
Public Dedication
“Know all men by these presents that we, the undersigned owners of the above
described tract of land, having caused the same to be subdivided into lots,
easements, parks, open space and/or streets or other parcels intended for
public use, to be hereafter known as:, do hereby warrant and save Wellsville
City, Utah, harmless from any easements and encumbrances thereon and any other
fee simple title flaws or claims, and do hereby dedicate, grant and convey the
same to Wellsville City, for the perpetual use of the public, whether the
parcels are intended to be used for easements, streets, parks or other public
use. In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our signatures this        day
of, 20    .”
      8.   Ensure that the following statements are placed on the face of the
final plat when open space is required:
Open Space Maintenance
“Wellsville City shall have the right but not the duty to require, and if
necessary, perform, at the property owner's or organization's expense,
landscaping and maintenance within the open space areas if the organization
fails, adequately, to perform such. The city may take this action when asked to
take over improvements or maintenance tasks by a property owner or
organization. The City Council may also take such actions, when it determines
the need, based on a historical pattern of lack of care and maintenance. If a
homeowner's association (HOA) is inoperable the City may assess individual
property owners associated with the HOA. In the event Wellsville City exercises
this right, the city shall be entitled to recover any associated costs and
attorney fees. This notation shall not be amended or deleted without the
approval of Wellsville City. "
      9.   Critical lands and Open Space delineated boldly on the face of the
Plat. Any sensitive or critical land, or open space that is required to be set-
aside by any part of Title 10 Land Use Regulation or Title 11 Subdivision
Regulations shall be represented on the plat map with bold graphic texture to
ensure that lands set-aside can be clearly seen and read after multiple
reproductions. The following statement shall be placed on the face of the plat
and made clearly readable:
“Use of Open Space, Critical, or Sensitive Land
All Open Space and/or Critical or Sensitive lands shall remain open and
undisturbed in perpetuity. Any building, structure, grading, storage, mass
grading or tree removal, and/or uses that can degrade lands that have been set-
aside from development activities are prohibited. Enforcement action shall be
commenced against the property owner or the homeowner's association to protect
critical lands, sensitive lands, and/or open space. Farming, mowing,
landscaping, and passive recreational uses, excluding any of the above
prohibitions, are allowed.”
Any Open Space or Critical Lands shall be labeled, in multiple locations, on
the area of the plat delineated for such, with the following bold text:
Open Space. No building, structures, storage, mass grading, mass tree removal,
and/or as more fully specified in Chapter 35 of the Land Use Regulations.
Or
Critical Lands. No building, structures, storage, mass grading, mass tree
removal, and/or as more fully specified in Chapter 34 of the Land Use
Regulations.
      10.   Be accompanied by the subdivision improvement agreement, if
required, in form satisfactory to the city attorney, which shall include a
provision that the subdivider shall comply with all the terms of this title,
other applicable laws and the terms of final subdivision plat approval as
determined by the City Council. Shall include, but not be limited to, the
performance of all required subdivision and off site improvements.
      11.   Provide the following data with the final plat:
         a.   A title in bold letters which includes the name of the
subdivision and its location by number of section, township, range and county;
         b.   Signature and seal of the registered land surveyor preparing the
plat;
         c.   Scale, north arrow, and date of plat preparation. Plat to be
drawn to an accurate engineer scale as authorized by the City Engineer. If the
drawings and survey are a reduction of the original, the scale must be changed
to accurately reflect the reduction or an accurate bar scale shall be included
proximate to the north arrow;
         d.   Boundaries of the tract (to be drawn slightly heavier than street
and lot lines) shall show all bearings and distances, determined by an accurate
field survey. All dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals thereof.
All boundary, lot and other geometries on the final plat shall close to an
accuracy of not less than one part in five thousand (5,000);
         e.   Excepted parcels within the plat boundaries shall show all
bearings and distances determined by an accurate field survey and data
expressed the same as other data on the plat;
         f.   Description of cardinal points to which all dimensions, angles,
bearings and similar data on the plat shall be referenced. Each of the two (2)
corners of the subdivision traverse shall be tied by course, or other legal
land subdivision corners;
         g.   Plat shall show all physical encroachments upon the boundaries of
the tract;
         h.   Names, right of way lines, courses, lengths, widths and bearings
and curve data on the centerline of all public streets, alleys, crosswalks and
utility easements; radii, points of tangency and central angles of all
curvilinear streets and alleys; and radii of all rounded street line
intersections;
         i.   All drainageways shall be shown on the plat with the same
information and in the same manner as in the preliminary plat;
         j.   All easements for right of way provided for public services or
utilities and any limitations of the easements. Construction within easement
shall be limited to utilities and wood, wire or removable section type fencing;
         k.   Location, lines, dimensions, bearings and number of all
residential lots and blocks. All residential lots shall be numbered by
consecutive numbers throughout the plat;
         l.   All lots, blocks, or parts thereof, reserved for any reason
within the subdivision, and all other exceptions, tracts and private parks
shall be so designated, lettered or named and clearly dimensioned;
         m.   Location, dimensions, bearings, radii, arcs and central angles of
all sites to be dedicated to the public will be clearly indicated and intended
use specified;
         n.   Location of all adjoining properties with date, book and page
number of recordation noted, or if unrecorded, so marked;
         o.   Any proposed private deed restrictions to be imposed upon the
plat, or any part or parts thereof, pertaining to the intended use of the land
shall be typewritten and attached to the plat and to each copy submitted;
         p.   A line indicating location and extent of open space, buildable,
and non-buildable areas related to the subdivision and a statement describing
all requirements related to the existence or maintenance of open space, trail
easements, non-buildable areas, conditional and prohibited uses, and
restrictions on land use, in or affecting the development or subdivision;
         q.   A written statement from applicable irrigation company specifying
approval;
         r.   Table of acreage, square feet and percentage calculations with
total acres, open space, net lotted area and dedicated area;
         s.   Signature blocks required:
            (1)   Surveyor's certificate;
            (2)   Owner's dedication;
            (3)   Acknowledgments by owner to include corporate, partnership,
limited liability company or trust acknowledgment, as applicable;
            (4)   Agreements, as applicable;
            (5)   Utility companies' approval;
            (6)   County recorder's number;
            (7)   County surveyor's certificate;
            (8)   City engineer's certificate;
            (9)   City attorney's approval;
            (10)   Mayor's approval and acceptance;
            (11)   Planning Commission chairperson's approval and acceptance.
   B.   Notification Of Local Emergency Authorities: The final subdivision plat
shall be properly filed with the fire chief and director of EMT for their
comment, which shall become conditions of final approval.
   C.   Recommendation And Final Approval: The Planning Commission shall
recommend that the City Council approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove
the subdivision application and shall set forth in written detail any findings
of fact for recommending disapproval to the City Council. The City Council, at
a regular City Council meeting, will make final approval, disapproval, or may
continue for approval or disapproval at a subsequent meeting if all
requirements have not been satisfied. These actions will be justified by
findings of fact, included in the meeting record. A motion to disapprove the
final plat shall include written findings of fact as defined by the Utah Code
in
10-3-2-E. If the City Council disapproves the proposed subdivision, the
applicant may execute an appeal in the manner prescribed.
   D.   Submission And Review: Subsequent to approval by the Planning
Commission, three (3) twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x 36") and ten
(10) eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") paper copies of the construction
plans, and one copy of the original of the subdivision plat on reproduction
Mylar, and three (3) copies of the subdivision plat on paper, shall be
submitted to the city manager for final review.
   E.   Approval, Signatures Required: No final approval shall be endorsed by
the mayor on the plat until a review has indicated that all requirements of the
approval have been met. All required signatures must be on the final plat
before the City Council indicates final signed acceptance.
   F.   Security; Title Report: Security shall be delivered to the city before
the final plat is signed by the mayor, together with a current title report,
obtained by the developer or the city manager, at the developer's expense, from
a licensed title company identifying the current owners of the real property
included in the final plat.
(Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007; amd. Res. 2021-09, 11-3-2021; amd. Ord. 2024-01, 2-7-
2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-5-13 of this code for landscaping plan requirements.
11-3-6: VESTED RIGHTS AND EFFECT OF APPROVAL:
   A.   Vested Rights: Except as otherwise provided in this section, no vested
rights shall accrue to the owner or developer of any subdivision by reason of
preliminary or final plat approval until the actual signing of the final plat
by the chairperson of the planning commission, the mayor and the city recorder.
   B.   Effect Of Recordation: Except as otherwise provided in this section, no
vested rights shall accrue to the owner or developer of any subdivision by
virtue of the recordation of a final plat.
   C.   Applicable Laws: To obtain final plat approval, the applicant shall be
in compliance with all federal and state laws applicable at the time that the
final plat is considered for approval by the planning commission. The applicant
also shall be in compliance with all local laws and regulations applicable at
the time that the preliminary plat was submitted to the planning commission in
accordance with subsection
11-3-3G of this chapter, except that the applicant shall comply with those
local laws and regulations in effect at the time that the final plat is
considered for approval by the commission if the planning commission makes a
determination on the record that compliance with any of those local laws and
regulations is reasonably necessary to protect public health and safety. If the
planning commission required the applicant to complete public improvements in
the subdivision prior to final plat approval, and the improvements have, in
fact, been completed, the applicant may be required to comply with local laws
and regulations in effect at the time that the final plat is considered for
approval only if the planning commission makes a finding on the record that
such compliance is necessary to prevent a substantial risk of injury to public
health, safety and general welfare. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-3-7: SIGNING AND RECORDATION OF SUBDIVISION PLAT:
   A.   Public Improvements: The planning commission shall require that all
public improvements be installed and dedicated prior to the signing of the
final subdivision plat by the chairperson of the planning commission, the mayor
and the city recorder. If the planning commission, for good cause stated in the
meeting minutes, does not require that all, or any portion of, the public
improvements be installed and dedicated prior to signing of the final
subdivision plat by the chairperson of the planning commission, the mayor and
the city recorder, the planning commission shall require that the applicant
execute a subdivision improvement agreement and provide security for the
agreement as provided in chapter 4 of this title. It is intended that all
public improvements be installed and dedicated as herein provided before the
final plat is signed by the chairperson of the planning commission, the mayor
and the city recorder and recorded, except for rare instances when exceptional
circumstances persuade the planning commission to recommend that the city
council allow, and the city council, in its sole discretion, does allow, the
final plat to be signed and recorded with development allowed to proceed after
the execution of a subdivision improvement agreement and the provision of
adequate security, as required herein.
   B.   Signing Of Plat:
      1.   When a subdivision improvement agreement and security are required,
the mayor shall endorse approval on the final plat after the agreement and
security have been approved by the planning commission, and all the conditions
of the approval pertaining to the final plat have been satisfied.
      2.   When installation of improvements is required prior to recordation
of the final plat, the chairperson of the planning commission and mayor shall
endorse approval on the final plat after all conditions of the resolution have
been satisfied and all improvements satisfactorily completed. There shall be
written evidence that the required public facilities have been installed in a
manner satisfactory to the city as shown by a certificate signed by the city
engineer and city attorney stating that the necessary dedication of public
lands and improvements has been accomplished.
   C.   Recordation Of Plat:
      1.   The mayor, city recorder, chairperson of the planning commission,
city engineer, county surveyor and city attorney will sign the reproducible
Mylar original of the final subdivision plat.
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the city manager to file the final
plat with the county recorder's office. Simultaneously with the filing of the
final plat, the city manager shall record the development agreement, the
declarations of covenants, conditions and restrictions, articles of
incorporation for any homeowners' association and the evidence of dedication,
together with such legal documents as shall be required by the city attorney to
be recorded.
   D.   Phasing Subdivision Plats: Prior to granting final approval of a
subdivision plat, the planning commission may permit the plat to be divided
into two (2) or more phases and may impose such conditions upon the filing of
the phases as it may deem necessary to assure the orderly development of the
plat. The planning commission may require that the subdivision improvement
agreement and security be in such amount as is commensurate with the phase or
phases of the plat to be filed and may defer the remaining amount of the
security until the remaining phases of the plat are offered for filing, but
this procedure shall only be followed when all public improvements are not
required to be installed and dedicated prior to the final plat being signed and
recorded. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-3-8: APPEALS TO CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Notice Of Appeal: The applicant for subdivision approval may appeal the
disapproval of any concept plan, preliminary or final subdivision plat by the
planning commission by filing a notice of appeal with the city council, with a
copy to the planning commission, no later than ten (10) days after the date
when the planning commission disapproved the concept plan, preliminary or final
subdivision plat. The notice of appeal shall set forth in clear and concise
fashion the basis for the appeal.
   B.   Hearing: The appeal shall be considered at the next regularly scheduled
public meeting of the city council, subject to statutory noticing requirements,
at which time the city council may affirm, affirm with conditions, or reverse
the decision of the planning commission. The city council may reverse the
decision of the planning commission if three (3) members of the city council
vote in favor of such reversal. On appeal, the applicant shall be allowed to
make a presentation to the city council under such terms, conditions and
procedures as established by the city council. The city council shall render a
decision affirming, affirming with conditions, or reversing the planning
commission decision. If the city council reverses the planning commission
decision, the applicant may proceed to submit a preliminary or final plat as
appropriate under the conditions for approval agreed to by the city council.
   C.   Further Appeal: The applicant for subdivision approval may not appeal
the disapproval of any final subdivision plat by the city council, except as
provided by state law. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-3-9: SUSPENSION AND INVALIDATION OF FINAL PLAT:
If the city suspends final plat approval for any subdivision plat under these
regulations, the city shall record a document with the county recorder's office
declaring that final approval for the subdivision is suspended and that the
further sale, lease or development of property within the subdivision is
prohibited; except, that this prohibition shall not apply to persons or parties
who have acquired and recorded a sale and purchase of property from the
subdivider prior to suspension, unless the person or party acquiring property
from the subdivider meets the definition of "common ownership", as defined in
section
11-2-1 of this title. If any court of competent jurisdiction invalidates final
plat approval for any subdivision, the city shall record a document with the
county recorder's office declaring that the final plat for the subdivision is
no longer valid and that further subdivision activity is prohibited. (Ord.
2007-05, 5-16-2007)
CHAPTER 4
ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS 1
SECTION:
11-4-1: Improvements And Subdivision Improvement Agreements
11-4-2: Escrow Deposits For Lot Improvements
11-4-3: Maintenance Of Improvements
11-4-4: Deferral Or Waiver Of Required Improvements
11-4-5: Issuance Of Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
11-4-6: Consumer Protection Legislation And Conflict Of Interest Statutes
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-3-7 of this code.
11-4-1: IMPROVEMENTS AND SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Completion Of Improvements: Before the final subdivision plat is
signed, all applicants shall be required to complete, in accordance with the
city council's decision and to the satisfaction of the city engineer, all the
street, sanitary and other public improvements, including lot improvements on
the individual lots of the subdivision plat and as approved, and to dedicate
those public improvements to the city, free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances on the dedicated property and public improvements.
   B.   Subdivision Improvement Agreement And Guarantee:
      1.   Agreement: Upon presentation and demonstration of exceptional,
unique and unusual circumstances by the applicant to the planning commission
first, and then the city council, and after receiving the recommendation of the
planning commission, the city council, in its sole discretion, may waive the
requirement that the applicant complete and dedicate all public improvements
prior to approval of the final subdivision plat and, as an alternative, permit
the applicant to enter into a subdivision improvement agreement by which the
subdivider covenants to complete all required public improvements no later than
one year following the date on which the city council approved the final
subdivision plat. With respect to all subdivision developments, where any
public improvements are required, the applicant shall warrant that all required
public improvements will be free from defect for a period of one year following
the acceptance by the city council of the dedication of the last completed
public improvement. The subdivision improvement agreement shall contain such
other terms and conditions as agreed to by the applicant and the city council,
but such one year warranty shall be given and honored by all applicants
regardless of whether or not a subdivision improvement agreement is executed by
the applicant and the city.
      2.   Covenants To Run: The subdivision improvement agreement shall
provide that the covenants contained in the agreement shall run with the land
and bind all successors, heirs and assigns of the subdivider. The subdivision
improvement agreement will be adopted by the city council, pursuant to
applicable state and local laws, and shall be recorded in the county recorder's
office.
      3.   Security: In the event the city council should permit an applicant
to enter into a subdivision improvement agreement, it shall require the
applicant to provide a letter of credit, cash escrow, performance bond, or
other security document or agreement as approved by the city attorney, as
security for the promises contained in the subdivision improvement agreement.
Whatever security is provided, it shall be in an amount equal to one hundred
fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of completion of the required public
improvements, including lot improvements and including estimated costs incurred
by the city for inspections of the improvements. The issuer of the letter of
credit or bond, or the escrow agent, or the person or entity providing the
required security amount, as applicable, shall be acceptable to the city
council.
         a.   Letter Of Credit: If the applicant posts a letter of credit as
security for its promises contained in the subdivision improvement agreement,
the letter of credit shall: 1) be irrevocable; and 2) be for a term sufficient
to cover the completion, maintenance and warranty periods in subsection B1 of
this section.
         b.   Cash Escrow: If the applicant posts a cash escrow as security for
its promises contained in the subdivision improvement agreement, the escrow
instructions shall provide: 1) that the subdivider will have no right to a
return of any of the funds, except as provided in this section; and 2) that the
escrow agent shall have a legal duty to deliver the funds to the city whenever
the city attorney presents an affidavit to the agent attesting to the city's
right to receive funds whether or not the subdivider protests that right. If
and when the city accepts dedication for the last completed, required public
improvement, the city shall execute a waiver of its right to receive all but
twenty five percent (25%) of the funds represented by the letter of credit or
cash escrow if the subdivider is not in breach of the subdivision improvement
agreement. The residual funds shall be security for the subdivider's covenant
to maintain the required public improvements and its warranty that the
improvements are free from defect as provided in subsection B1 of this section.
         c.   Performance Bond: A performance bond may be used as security for
promises contained in the subdivision improvement agreement; provided, that the
bonding agency is recognized by the city as a bonified bonding entity and that
the amount of the bond is equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the
estimated cost of all improvements, including estimated costs incurred by the
city for inspections of the improvements.
         d.   Temporary Improvement: The applicant shall build and pay for all
costs of temporary improvements required by the city council and shall maintain
those temporary improvements for the period specified by the city council.
Prior to construction of any temporary facility or improvement, the developer
shall file with the city a separate subdivision improvement agreement and a
letter of credit, cash escrow, or performance bond in an appropriate amount for
temporary facilities, which agreement and security shall ensure that the
temporary facilities will be properly constructed, maintained and removed.
         e.   Costs Of Improvements: All required improvements shall be made by
the developer, at its expense, without reimbursement by the city or any
improvement district, except as may be allowed under state law, and approved by
the city council.
         f.   Failure To Complete Improvements:
            (1)   For subdivisions in which all required public improvements
must be installed and dedicated before the final plat can be signed by the
chairperson of the planning commission, mayor and city recorder, and recorded
and for which no subdivision improvement agreement has been executed and no
security has been posted, if the improvements are not completed within the
period specified by the city council in approving the final plat, the concept
plan or preliminary plat approval shall be deemed to have expired.
            (2)   For subdivisions where a subdivision improvement agreement
has been allowed and executed, and security has been posted and required public
improvements have not been installed within the terms of the agreement, the
city may then:
               (A) Declare the agreement to be in default and require that all
the improvements be installed regardless of the extent of the building
development at the time the agreement is declared to be in default;
               (B) Obtain funds under the security and complete improvements
itself or through a third party;
               (C) Assign its right to receive funds under the security to any
third party, including a subsequent owner of the subdivision for which
improvements were not constructed, in whole or in part, in exchange for that
subsequent owner's promise to complete improvements in the subdivision;
               (D) Exercise any other rights available pursuant to the
subdivision improvements agreement or under the law.
         g.   Acceptance Of Dedication Offers: Acceptance of the dedication of
streets, public areas, easements and parks on the final plat or otherwise,
shall be evidenced by the final inspection and approval of the same by the city
engineer in a written certificate as provided herein. The approval of a
subdivision plat by the planning commission and city council, whether concept
plan, preliminary or final plat, shall not be deemed to constitute or imply the
acceptance of any dedication by the city of any street, easement, park or other
public improvement shown on the plat or in the construction drawings. Further,
approval of a subdivision plat shall not imply or obligate the city to provide
or to make available any services to a subdivision. The city council shall
require the plat to be endorsed with appropriate notes to this effect.
         h.   Inspection Of Improvements: The city shall provide for inspection
of required improvements during construction and ensure their satisfactory
completion. The applicant shall pay to the city an inspection fee based on the
actual cost of inspections. Where the improvements are completed prior to final
plat approval, the subdivision plat shall not be signed by the chairperson of
the planning commission, mayor or city recorder unless the inspection fee has
been paid at the time of application. These fees shall be due and payable upon
demand of the city, and no building permits or certificates of occupancy shall
be issued until all fees are paid. If the city engineer finds, upon inspection,
that any one or more of the required improvements have not been constructed in
accordance with the city construction standards and specifications, the
applicant shall be responsible for properly completing the improvements.
         i.   Release Or Reduction Of Security:
            (1)   Certificate Of Satisfactory Completion: The city council will
not accept dedication of required improvements, nor release nor reduce the
amount of any security posted by the subdivider until the city engineer has
submitted a certificate stating that all required improvements have been
satisfactorily completed and until the applicant's engineer or surveyor has
certified satisfactory completion to the city engineer, through submission of a
detailed as built survey plat of the subdivision, or detailed as built
drawings, indicating location, dimensions, materials, and other information
required by the city council or city engineer, that the layout of the line and
grade and all other required specifications of all public improvements are in
accordance with construction plans and actual construction of the subdivision.
Upon such approval and recommendation by the city council, city engineer and
city attorney, the city council shall thereafter accept the improvements for
dedication in accordance with the established procedure.
            (2)   Reduction Of Escrowed Funds And Security: If the security
posted by the subdivider was a cash escrow or bond, the amount of the escrow or
bond shall be reduced upon actual acceptance of the dedication of public
improvements and then only to the ratio that the cost of the public improvement
for which dedication was accepted bears to the total cost of public
improvements for the subdivision. In no event shall a cash escrow or bond be
reduced below twenty five percent (25%) of the principal amount. At the end of
the maintenance and warranty periods, all escrowed funds or other security, if
any, shall be released to the subdivider, provided all warranty issues,
disputes or other concerns have been resolved. If the security provided by the
subdivider was a letter of credit, the city attorney shall execute waivers of
the city's right to draw funds under the letter of credit upon actual
acceptance of the dedication of public improvements and then only to the ratio
that the cost of the public improvement for which dedication was accepted bears
to the total cost of public improvements for the subdivision. In no event shall
waivers be executed that would reduce the security below twenty five percent
(25%) of its original amount. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-4-2: ESCROW DEPOSITS FOR LOT IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Acceptance Of Escrow Funds: Whenever, by reason of the season of the
year, any lot improvements required by the subdivision regulations cannot be
performed, the city manager may issue a certificate of occupancy, provided
there is no danger to health, safety or general welfare upon accepting a cash
escrow deposit in an amount to be determined by the city engineer for the cost
of the lot improvements remaining to be installed. The subdivision improvements
agreement and security covering the lot improvements shall remain in full force
and effect. This section shall only apply in the event an applicant has been
allowed to enter into a subdivision improvement agreement and post the required
security, in lieu of completing all required public improvements prior to the
execution and recording of the final plat.
   B.   Procedures On Escrow Fund: All required improvements for which escrow
monies have been accepted by the city at the time of issuance of a certificate
of occupancy shall be installed by the subdivider within a period of nine (9)
months from the date of deposit and issuance of the certificate of occupancy.
If the improvements have not been properly installed at the end of the time
period, the city shall give two (2) weeks' written notice to the developer
requiring it to install the improvements, and if they are not then installed
properly, the city manager may request the city council to proceed to contract
out the work for the installation of the necessary improvements in a sum not to
exceed the amount of the escrow deposit. At the time of the issuance of the
certificate of occupancy for which escrow monies are being deposited with the
city, the developer shall obtain and file with the city, prior to obtaining the
certificate of occupancy, a notarized statement from the purchaser or
purchasers of the premises authorizing the city to install the improvements at
the end of the nine (9) month period if the improvements have not been duly
installed by the subdivider. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-4-3: MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
The developer shall be required to maintain all required public improvements on
the individual subdivided lots and provide for snow removal on streets and
sidewalks until acceptance of the improvements by the city council. If there
are any certificates of occupancy on a street not dedicated to the city, the
city may, on twelve (12) hours' notice, plow the street or effect emergency
repairs and charge those costs to the developer. Following the acceptance of
the dedication of any public improvement by the city, the city shall require
the subdivider to maintain the improvement for a period of one year from the
date of acceptance. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-4-4: DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Authorized: The city council may defer or waive at the time of final
approval, subject to appropriate conditions, the provision of any or all public
improvements as, in its judgment, are not requisite in the interests of the
public health, safety and general welfare, or which are inappropriate because
of the inadequacy or nonexistence of connecting facilities. Any determination
to defer or waive the provision of any public improvement must be made on the
record and the reasons for the deferral or waiver also shall be expressly made
on the record.
   B.   Payment By Subdivider: Whenever it is deemed necessary by the city
council to defer the construction of any improvement required under these
regulations because of incompatible grades, future planning, inadequate or
nonexistent connecting facilities, or for other reasons, the subdivider shall
pay his share of the costs of the future improvements to the city prior to
signing of the final subdivision plat by the mayor and city recorder, or the
developer may execute a separate subdivision improvement agreement secured by a
letter of credit guaranteeing completion of the deferred improvements upon
demand of the city. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-4-5: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Completion Of Public Improvements Required: When a subdivision
improvement agreement and security have been required for a subdivision, no
certificate of occupancy for any building in the subdivision shall be issued
prior to the completion of the required public improvements and the acceptance
of the dedication of those improvements by the city, as required in the city
council's approval of the final subdivision plat.
   B.   Street Improvements: In the event the city council has permitted an
applicant to enter into a subdivision improvement agreement and post required
security, in lieu of completing all required public improvements prior to the
execution and recording of the final plat, if an occupancy permit is requested,
the extent of street improvement shall be adequate for vehicular access by the
prospective occupants and by police and fire equipment prior to the issuance of
an occupancy permit. The developer shall, at the time of the offer of
dedication, submit monies in escrow to the city in a sum determined by the city
engineer for the necessary final improvement of the street.
   C.   Building Permit: No building permit shall be issued until: 1) all
public improvements have been fully completed, dedicated and accepted or, if
allowed, assurance has been posted as required herein; 2) the city has accepted
the developer's offer to dedicate the improvements by approval of the final
subdivision plat; and 3) necessary minimum improvements have been completed to
provide public services and all weather access to the lot for which building
permit is being requested.
   D.   Damages; Repair: Any damage to improvements associated with the
subdivision must be repaired or replaced by the contractor to the satisfaction
of the city. Repairs and replacements include, but are not limited to, concrete
walks, curbs, gutters and utilities. No occupancy permit shall be issued to any
homeowner of the subdivision until said improvements associated with the
homeowner's property have been fully completed. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-4-6: CONSUMER PROTECTION LEGISLATION AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATUTES:
   A.   Violations: No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be
granted or issued if a developer or its authorized agent has violated any
federal, state or local law pertaining to: 1) consumer protection; or 2) real
estate land sales, promotion or practices; or 3) any applicable conflicts of
interest legislation with respect to the lot or parcel of land which is the
subject of the permit or certificate until a court of competent jurisdiction so
orders.
   B.   Revocation For Violation: With respect to any lot or parcel of land
described in subsection A of this section, if a building permit or certificate
of occupancy has been granted or issued, it may be revoked by the city until a
court of competent jurisdiction orders otherwise; provided, that in no event
shall the rights of intervening innocent third parties in possession of a
certificate of occupancy be prejudiced by any such revocation.
   C.   Penalty: Any violation of a federal, state or local consumer protection
law, including, but not limited to, the postal reorganization act of 1970, the
federal trade commission act of 1970, the interstate land sales full disclosure
act, the truth in lending act, the uniform commercial credit code, the state
"blue sky" laws, state subdivision disclosure acts, or any conflict of interest
statutes, law or ordinance, shall be deemed a violation of these regulations
and subject to all of the penalties and proceedings as set forth in section
11-1-13 of this title. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
CHAPTER 5
REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS, RESERVATIONS AND DESIGN
SECTION:
11-5-1: General Improvements
11-5-2: Lot Improvements
11-5-3: Streets
11-5-4: Open Space
11-5-5: Drainage And Storm Sewers
11-5-6: Water Facilities
11-5-7: Sewer Facilities
11-5-8: Sidewalks, Curbs And Gutter
11-5-9: Utilities
11-5-10: Public Uses
11-5-11: Preservation Of Natural Features And Amenities
11-5-12: Nonresidential Subdivisions
11-5-1: GENERAL IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Conformance To Applicable Rules And Regulations: In addition to the
requirements established in these regulations, all subdivision plats shall
comply with the following laws, rules and regulations:
      1.   All applicable statutory provisions;
      2.   The city zoning ordinance, design standards and construction
specifications, subdivision code, building and housing codes, and all other
applicable laws of the appropriate jurisdictions;
      3.   The official general plan, official map, public utilities plan, and
capital improvements program of the city, impact fees, including all streets,
drainage systems and parks shown on the official zoning map or general plan as
adopted;
      4.   The special requirements of these regulations and any rules of the
health department and/or appropriate state or substate agencies;
      5.   The rules of the Utah department of transportation (UDOT) if the
subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state highway or connecting
street;
      6.   The standards and regulations adopted by the city engineer and all
boards, commissions, agencies and officials of the city;
      7.   All pertinent standards contained within the planning guides
published by the Bear River association of governments or Cache metropolitan
planning organization;
      8.   Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is not in conformity
with the above laws, regulations, guidelines and policies, as well as the
purposes of these regulations established in section
11-1-3 of this title;
      9.   All regulations and requirements of federal agencies.
   B.   Adequate Public Facilities:
      1.   Placement: To the maximum extent practical, all utilities shall be
placed within existing road rights of way and front yard setbacks as set forth
in this title and adopted design standards and construction specifications. All
water, sewer, electrical, telephone, cable television and other utilities shall
be placed underground, except that transformers, pedestals and other
appurtenances which are normally located aboveground in connection with the
underground installations are permitted. All areas disturbed in the open space
shall be revegetated to a natural condition. Temporary or emergency utilities
may be erected and maintained aboveground for no more than the period required
to construct the facility.
      2.   Adequacy Determined: No preliminary plat shall be approved unless
the planning commission determines that public facilities will be adequate to
support and service the area of the proposed subdivision. The applicant shall,
at the request of the planning commission, submit sufficient information and
data on the proposed subdivision to demonstrate the expected impact on and use
of public facilities by possible uses of said subdivision. Public facilities
and services to be examined for adequacy will include streets, sewerage, water
service, storm sewer and secondary water.
      3.   Guidelines: Periodically the city council will establish by
resolution, after public hearing, guidelines for the determination of the
adequacy of public facilities and services. To provide the basis for the
guidelines, the planning commission may prepare an analysis of current growth
and the amount of additional growth that can be accommodated by future public
facilities and services. The planning commission may also recommend any changes
in preliminary plat approval criteria it finds appropriate in the light of its
experience in administering these regulations.
      4.   Impact: The applicant for a preliminary plat must, at the request of
the planning commission, submit sufficient information and data on the proposed
subdivision to demonstrate the expected impact on and use of public facilities
and services by possible uses of said subdivision.
      5.   General Plan Consistency Required: Proposed public improvements
shall conform to and be properly related to the city general plan and all
applicable capital improvement plans.
      6.   Water: All habitable buildings and buildable lots shall be connected
to a public water system capable of providing water for health and emergency
purposes, including adequate fire protection.
      7.   Wastewater: All habitable buildings and buildable lots shall be
served by an approved means of wastewater collection and treatment.
      8.   Stormwater Management: Drainage improvements shall accommodate
potential runoff from the entire upstream drainage area and shall be designed
to prevent increases in downstream flooding. The city may require the use of
control methods such as retention or detention, and/or the construction of off
site drainage improvements to mitigate the impacts of the proposed
developments. Must comply fully with section
11-5-5 of this chapter.
      9.   Streets: Proposed streets shall provide a safe, convenient and
functional system for vehicular, pedestrian and bicycle circulation; shall be
properly related to the general plan; and shall be appropriate for the
particular traffic characteristics of each proposed development. Streets shall
comply with provisions of section
11-5-3 of this chapter.
      10.   Extension Policies: All public improvements and required easements
shall be extended through the parcel on which new development is proposed.
Streets, water lines, wastewater systems, drainage facilities, electrical lines
and telecommunications lines shall be constructed through new development to
promote the logical extension of public infrastructure. The city may require
the applicant of a subdivision to extend off site improvements to reach the
subdivision and oversize required public facilities to serve anticipated future
development as a condition of plat approval.
   C.   Self-Imposed Restrictions: If the owner places restrictions on any of
the land contained in the subdivision greater than those required by the zoning
ordinance or these regulations, such restrictions or reference to those
restrictions shall be recorded with the county recorder and indicated on the
subdivision plat. The city council requires that restrictive covenants be
recorded with the county recorder in a form to be approved by the city
attorney. The subdivider shall grant to the city the right to enforce the
restrictive covenants.
   D.   Plats Straddling Municipal Boundaries: Whenever access to the
subdivision is required across land in another city, the city council may
request assurance from the city attorney that access is legally established,
and from the city engineer that the access road is adequately improved, or that
a guarantee has been duly executed and is sufficient in amount to assure the
construction of the access road if the access road is not required to be
constructed before the final plat is signed and recorded. In general, lot lines
should be laid out so as not to cross municipal boundary lines.
   E.   Monuments: The applicant shall place permanent reference monuments in
the subdivision as required in these regulations, and the city design standards
and construction specifications, and as approved by the city engineer.
      1.   Monuments shall be located on street rights of way lines, at street
intersections, angle points of curves and block corners. They shall be spaced
so as to be within sight of each other, the sight lines being contained wholly
within the street limits.
      2.   The external boundaries of a subdivision shall be monumented in the
field by monuments of stone or concrete, not less than thirty inches (30") in
length, not less than four inches (4") square, or five inches (5") in diameter,
and marked on top with a cross, brass plug, iron rod, or other durable material
securely embedded; or by iron rods or pipes at least thirty inches (30") long
and two inches (2") in diameter. These monuments shall be placed not more than
one thousand four hundred feet (1,400') apart in any straight line and at all
corners, at each end of all curves, at the point where a curve changes its
radius, at all angle points in any line, and at all angle points along the
meander line, those points to be not less than twenty feet (20') back from the
bank of any river or stream, except that when such corners or points fall
within a street, or proposed future street, the monuments shall be placed in
the side line of the street.
      3.   All internal boundaries and those corners and points not referred to
in subsection E2 of this section, shall be monumented in the field by like
monuments as described above. These monuments shall be placed at all block
corners, at each end of all curves, at a point where a river changes its
radius, and at all angle points in any line.
      4.   The lines of lots that extend to rivers or streams shall be
monumented in the field by iron pipes at least thirty inches (30") long and
seven-eighths inch (7/8") in diameter, or by round or square iron bars at least
thirty inches (30") long. These monuments shall be placed at the point of
intersection of the river or stream lot line, with a meander line established
not less than twenty feet (20') back from the bank of the river or stream.
      5.   All monuments required by these regulations shall be set flush with
the ground and planted in such a manner that they will not be removed by frost.
      6.   All monuments shall be properly set in the ground and approved by
the city engineer prior to the city accepting the subdivision.
   F.   Sensitive Lands 1 : Land that the planning commission finds to be
unsuitable for subdivision or development due to flooding, improper drainage,
steep slopes, rock formations, adverse earth formations or topography, utility
easements, adverse visual affects on the overall scenic quality of the city, or
other features that will reasonably be harmful to the safety, health and
general welfare of the present or future inhabitants of the subdivision and/or
its surrounding areas, shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate
methods are formulated by the developer and approved by the planning commission
and city council, upon recommendation of the city engineer, to solve the
problems created by the sensitive land conditions. Such land shall be set aside
as either public or private open space. Subdivisions proposed on sensitive
lands shall be subject to the following:
      1.   Areas: Areas affected by this title are those sensitive lands or
potentially sensitive lands, or other lands, such as, but not limited to, one
or more of the following characteristics:
         a.   Steep slopes;
         b.   Natural drainageways;
         c.   Utility corridors;
         d.   Flood hazards;
         e.   Unstable soils;
         f.   Seismic hazards;
         g.   Community visual amenity;
         h.   Designated wetlands;
         i.   Natural resource amenity;
         j.   Open space;
         k.   Agricultural land, highly productive;
         l.   Water recharge zones and culinary water sources protection zones
2 .
      2.   Errors Or Inaccurate Classifications: If the applicant believes that
"sensitive lands" or "potentially sensitive lands", as defined herein, are in
error or that the extent of such is inaccurate, it shall be the responsibility
of the developer or owner to provide the planning commission with studies or
data necessary to determine the extent and nature of sensitive lands to remain
in open space. If a change is justified, an amendment to the general plan will
be initiated. Certain areas of the city may possess qualities that may appear
to be sensitive lands but may require further study by the developer to
determine whether such lands should be classified as sensitive lands. This
condition may particularly apply to transitional areas around sensitive lands.
The city may include such areas within the sensitive lands category and further
require those developing the property to produce evidence, with the help of
professionals in the particular field, for the planning commission to determine
the final classification of lands. All documents must be submitted in color.
      3.   Sensitive Lands Mitigation: Attempts to mitigate the detrimental
affects of development on any sensitive lands or potentially sensitive lands
shall only be allowed if federal or state agencies specifically approve such
practices and if all procedures and requirements are implemented according to
the state and federal regulations. Mitigation of nonregulated sensitive lands
may be allowed as approved by the planning commission and city council, and as
evidence is supplied to the planning commission and the mayor by the applicant
that such measures will be in the best interest of the city.
   G.   Subdivision Name: The proposed name of the subdivision shall not
duplicate, or too closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other
subdivision in the area covered by these regulations. The planning commission
shall have final authority to approve the name of the subdivision, which shall
be determined at the time of concept plan approval. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  11-3-3E of this title.
2 2. See title 8, chapter 2 of this code.
11-5-2: LOT IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Requirement To Cluster Lots: The layout of lots shall be designed to
preserve sensitive lands and special features of property by reducing lot size
and preserving remaining land as permanent open space as an amenity for
homeowners. See zoning ordinance for lot area, density and dimension
requirements.
   B.   Lot Arrangement: The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be
no foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in
securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the zoning
ordinance and health regulations, and in providing driveway access to buildings
on the lots from an approved street. Where a project abuts arterials,
collectors and federal highways, as defined on the road master plan, front
yards of lots must face public roadways. Rear yards of lots are not allowed to
face public roadways.
   C.   Lot Dimensions: Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards
of the zoning ordinance. Where lots are more than double the minimum required
area for the zoning district, the planning commission may require that those
lots be arranged so as to allow further subdivision and the opening of future
streets where they would be necessary to serve potential lots, all in
compliance with the zoning ordinance and these regulations. In general, side
lot lines shall be at right angles to street lines (or radial to curving street
lines), unless a variation from this rule will give a better street or lot
plan. Dimensions of corner lots shall be large enough to allow for erection of
buildings, observing the minimum front yard and side yard setback from both
streets. Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for business,
commercial or industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off
street parking and loading facilities required for the type of use and
development contemplated, as established in the zoning ordinance.
   D.   Lot Orientation: The lot line common to the street right of way shall
be the front line. All lots shall face the front line and a similar line across
the street. Wherever feasible, lots shall be arranged so that the rear line
does not abut the side line of an adjacent lot.
   E.   Building Site: Each lot shall contain a building site appropriate to
accommodate the primary residential structure, which building site shall be
outlined on the preliminary and final subdivision plat. Each building site
shall be located in compliance with all applicable setbacks, side yards and
rear yard requirements. All building sites shall have a natural or manmade
average slope of fifteen percent (15%) or less in any direction across the
building site. Grading of the lot shall not extend more than thirty feet (30')
in any direction from the proposed structure, unless a greater distance is
approved by the city planner or city engineer, upon a showing by the applicant
that a greater distance will not be contrary to the purposes of this title. In
no case shall grading for the building site extend beyond the property line of
the lot. Primary dwelling and accessory structures shall be located within a
building site.
   F.   Double Frontage Lots And Access To Lots:
      1.   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage and reversed frontage lots
shall be avoided except where necessary to provide separation of residential
development from traffic arterials, or to overcome specific disadvantages of
topography and orientation.
      2.   Access From Major And Secondary Arterial Or Collector Roads: Lots
shall not, in general, derive access from an arterial or collector road, as
shown on the road master plan. Where driveway access from a major or secondary
street may be necessary for several adjoining lots, the planning commission
will require that such lots be served by a combined access drive in order to
limit possible traffic hazards on the street. Driveways shall be designed and
arranged so as to avoid requiring vehicles to back into traffic on arterial or
collector roadways.
   G.   Soil Preservation, Grading And Seeding; Final Grading: No certificate
of occupancy shall be issued until final grading has been completed in
accordance with the approved final subdivision plat. Topsoil shall not be
removed from residential lots or used as spoil, but shall be redistributed so
as to provide cover on the lots and cover between the sidewalks and curbs, and
shall be stabilized by seeding or planting.
   H.   Lot Drainage: Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage
away from all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with
the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so
as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent
lots and to prohibit drainage into the city sanitary sewer system.
   I.   Debris And Waste: No cut trees, timber, debris, earth, rocks, stones,
soil, junk, rubbish, or other waste materials of any kind, shall be buried in
any land, or left or deposited on any lot or street at the time of the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy, and removal of those items and materials shall
be required prior to issuance of any certificate of occupancy on a subdivision.
No items and materials as described in the preceding sentence shall be left or
deposited in any area of the subdivision at the time of expiration of any
subdivision improvement agreement or dedication of public improvements,
whichever is sooner.
   J.   Water Bodies And Watercourses: If a tract being subdivided contains a
water body, or portion thereof, lot lines shall be so drawn as to distribute
the entire ownership of the water body among the adjacent lots. The planning
commission and city council may approve an alternative plan whereby the
ownership of the water body may be given to a homeowners' association within
the subdivision or may be placed in a conservation easement. Responsibility for
safe maintenance of the water body is so placed that it will not become a city
responsibility. No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the minimum area of a
lot required under the zoning ordinance may be satisfied by land that is under
water. Where a watercourse separates the buildable area of a lot from the
street by which it has access, provisions shall be made for installation of a
culvert or other structure, of design approved by the city engineer.
   K.   Subdivision Improvement Agreement And Security To Include Lot
Improvement: The applicant shall enter into a separate subdivision improvement
agreement secured by a letter of credit, cash escrow or other security approved
by the city attorney, to guarantee completion of all lot improvement
requirements, including, but not limited to, soil preservation, final grading,
street trees, lot drainage, grass seeding, removal of debris and waste,
fencing, and all other lot improvements required by the city council. Whether
or not a certificate of occupancy has been issued, the city may enforce the
provisions of the subdivision improvement agreement where the provisions of
this section or any other applicable law, ordinance or regulation have not been
met. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-5-3: STREETS:
In addition to the requirements of this section, the design standards and
construction specifications as officially adopted show construction details and
specifications.
   A.   General Requirements: The layout and design of private streets and
public rights of way shall conform to the street master plan and shall provide
appropriate connections to adjacent properties and future streets. The design
of public streets shall conform to this title.
      1.   Frontage On Improved Streets: No subdivision shall be approved
unless the area to be subdivided shall have frontage on and access from an
existing street, unless such street is:
         a.   An existing state, county or township highway; or
         b.   A street shown upon a plat approved by the city council and
recorded in the county recorder of deeds office. Such street or highway must be
suitably improved as required by the highway rules, regulations, specifications
or orders, or be secured by a performance bond required under these subdivision
regulations, with the width and right of way required by these subdivision
regulations or contained in the general plan. Wherever the area to be
subdivided is to utilize existing road frontage, the road shall be suitably
improved as provided above.
      2.   Level Of Service: No development shall be approved if such
development, at full occupancy, will result in or increase traffic on an
arterial or collector so that the street does not function at a level of
service of C or better. The applicant may propose and construct approved
traffic mitigation measures to provide adequate roadway capacity for the
proposed development. The applicant for any development projected to generate
more than one thousand (1,000) vehicle trips per day shall submit a traffic
impact analysis.
      3.   Layout Of Streets Shall Conform To Sound Engineering Practices:
Design of streets shall traverse slopes, where possible, and shall avoid, where
practical, streets which run perpendicular to contour lines. Streets and other
vehicular routes shall not cross property having a slope greater than twenty
percent (20%), unless approved by the planning commission and city council, and
they determine that:
         a.   Appropriate engineering measures will be taken to minimize the
impact of the cuts and fills, and that erosion control and slope stabilization
will be performed consistent with the purpose of this title; and
         b.   The environment and aesthetics of the area will not be adversely
affected.
      4.   Grading And Improvement Plan: Streets shall be graded and improved
and conform to the city design standards and construction specifications and
shall be approved as to design and specifications by the city engineer, in
accordance with the construction plans required to be submitted prior to final
plat approval.
      5.   Classification: All streets shall be classified as either arterial,
collector or local streets. In classifying streets, the city shall consider
projected traffic demands after twenty (20) years of development.
      6.   Topography And Arrangement:
         a.   Streets shall be related appropriately to the topography. On
slopes in excess of ten percent (10%) grade, streets shall be designed to
contour with the slope to the greatest extent possible. All streets shall be
arranged so as to obtain as many building sites as possible at, or above, the
grades of the streets. Grades of streets shall conform as closely as possible
to the original topography. A combination of steep grades and curves shall be
avoided. Specific standards are contained in the design standards of these
regulations.
         b.   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of thoroughfares. All thoroughfares shall be properly related
to special traffic generators, such as industries, business districts, schools,
churches and shopping centers; to population densities; and to the pattern of
existing and proposed land uses.
         c.   Minor or local streets shall be laid out to conform as much as
possible to the topography to permit connection to adjacent streets and to
conform to the uniform block grid, and to permit efficient drainage and utility
systems, and to require the minimum number of streets necessary to provide
convenient and safe access to property.
         d.   Curvilinear streets and cul-de-sacs are not allowed, except where
topographic conditions or parcel configuration may dictate and where approved
by the planning commission and the city council. U-shaped streets shall be
encouraged where such use will result in a more desirable layout.
         e.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless in the opinion of the city council such extension is not
necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision
with the existing layout or the most advantageous future development of
adjacent tracts.
         f.   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other
accessways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings,
location of rail facilities, and the provision of alleys, truck loading and
maneuvering areas, and walks and parking areas so as to minimize conflict of
movement between the various types of traffic, including pedestrians.
      7.   Blocks:
         a.   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers
of lots of appropriate depths. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall
be permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets, railroads or waterways.
         b.   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall maintain the same
organization of blocks as planned in the original layout of the city. Wherever
practicable, the layout of new subdivisions shall conform to the extension of
the ten (10) acre grid of the existing city.
         c.   In long blocks, the planning commission may require the
reservation of an easement through the block to accommodate utilities, drainage
facilities or pedestrian traffic.
         d.   Pedestrianways or crosswalks, not less than ten feet (10') wide,
may be required by the planning commission through the center of blocks more
than six hundred sixty feet (660') long where deemed essential to provide
circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation
or other community facilities. Blocks designed for industrial uses shall be of
such length and width as may be determined suitable by the planning commission
for prospective use.
      8.   Access To Primary Arterials Or Collectors: Where a subdivision
borders on or contains an existing or proposed primary arterial or collector,
the planning commission shall require that access to such streets be limited by
one of the following means:
         a.   The subdivision of lots so as to front onto a parallel local
street; no individual lot access shall be provided from the primary arterial or
collector. Lots designed with the rear facing the primary arterial or collector
shall not be permitted, except where approved screening shall be provided in a
strip of land forty feet (40') wide along the rear property line of such lots;
and provided, that a homeowners' association is created for the owners of the
entire subdivision requiring maintenance of the said screening, park strip and
street trees.
         b.   A marginal access or frontage road (separated from the primary
arterial by a planting or grass strip and having access at suitable points).
         c.   Local street perpendicular to the arterial or collector with lots
adjacent to the arterial or collector fronting on and accessing the local
street.
      9.   Street Names: The concept plan, as submitted, shall not indicate any
names for proposed streets. The planning commission shall approve names of all
streets as suggested by the applicant at the time of concept plan approval. The
applicant shall consult the local postmaster prior to rendering its
recommendation to the planning commission. Names shall be sufficiently
different in sound and spelling from other road names in the city so as not to
cause confusion. A road which is (or is planned as) a continuation of an
existing road shall bear the same name.
      10.   Road Regulatory Signs: The developer shall install all road signs
before issuance of certificates of occupancy for any residence on the streets
approved. Street name signs are to placed at all intersections within or
abutting the subdivision, the type and location of which to be approved by the
city engineer.
      11.   Streetlights: Installation of streetlights shall be required in
accordance with design and specification standards approved by the city
engineer.
      12.   Reserve Strips: The creation of reserve strips shall not be
permitted adjacent to a proposed street in such a manner as to deny access from
adjacent property to a public street, unless the reserve strip is deeded to the
city.
      13.   Construction Of Dead End Streets:
         a.   Temporary: The arrangement of streets shall provide for the
continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when the
continuation is necessary for movement of traffic, continuation of the
traditional street grid, effective fire protection, for efficient provision of
utilities, and where the continuation is in accordance with the road master
plan. If the adjacent property is undeveloped and the street must temporarily
be a dead end street, the right of way shall be extended to the property line.
A temporary fully improved turnabout with a one hundred foot (100') diameter
paved travel lane shall be provided on all temporary dead end streets, with the
notation on the subdivision plat that land outside the normal street right of
way shall revert to adjacent property owners whenever the street is continued.
It shall be the responsibility of the adjoining party to restore abutting
properties and improvements upon continuation of the street. The planning
commission may limit the length of temporary dead end streets in accordance
with the design standards of these regulations.
         b.   Permanent: Permanent dead end streets are not permitted, except
where topographic conditions or parcel configuration may dictate and only when
approved by the planning commission and the city council. Where a road does not
extend beyond the boundary of the subdivision and its continuation is not
required by the planning commission for access to adjoining property, its
terminus shall not be nearer to the adjacent boundary than fifty feet (50').
However, the planning commission shall require the reservation of a public
right of way to accommodate a paved one hundred foot (100') diameter
turnaround, drainage facilities, pedestrian traffic and/or utilities. A
permanent right of way may be required to allow a potential future public
access to the adjacent property at the end of the dead end road. All
improvements shall be accomplished in accordance with city design standards and
construction specifications. For greater convenience to traffic and more
effective police and fire protection, permanent dead end streets shall, in
general, be limited in length in accordance with the design standards of these
regulations.
   B.   Design Standards:
      1.   General: Design standards for streets are intended to provide for
suitable location, width and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and
afford satisfactory access to police, firefighting, snow removal, sanitation
and road maintenance equipment. Road design must coordinate streets so as to
compose a convenient system and avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties.
Road classification may be indicated on the road master plan, otherwise, it
shall be determined by the city council.
      2.   Road Surfacing And Improvements: After sewer and water utilities
have been installed by the developer, the developer shall construct curbs and
gutters and shall surface or cause to be surfaced roadways to the widths
prescribed in these regulations. All surfacing shall be of a character as is
suitable for the expected traffic and in harmony with similar improvements in
the surrounding areas. Types of pavement shall be as determined by the city
engineer. Adequate provision shall be made for culverts, drains and bridges.
All road pavement, shoulders, drainage improvements and structures, curbs,
turnarounds and sidewalks shall conform to all design standards and
construction specifications adopted by the city council and city engineer, and
shall be incorporated into the construction plans required to be submitted by
the developer for plat approval.
      3.   Chip And Seal: It is the responsibility of the developer to chip and
seal the new streets within twelve (12) to eighteen (18) months, at the city
manager's discretion, after the new streets are surfaced with asphalt.
      4.   Excess Right Of Way: Right of way widths in excess of the standards
designated in these regulations shall be required whenever, due to topography,
additional width is necessary to provide adequate earth slopes. Such slopes
shall not be in excess of three to one (3:1).
      5.   Railroads And Limited Access Highways: Railroad rights of way and
limited access highways where so located as to affect the subdivision of
adjoining lands shall be treated as follows:
         a.   In residential districts, a buffer strip at least twenty five
feet (25') in depth in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the
zone shall be provided adjacent to the railroad right of way or limited access
highway. This strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be designated
on the plat: "This strip is reserved for screening. The placement of structures
on this land is prohibited".
         b.   In districts zoned for business, commercial or industrial uses,
the nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad
right of way shall, wherever practicable, be at a sufficient distance from the
railroad right of way to ensure suitable depth for commercial or industrial
sites.
         c.   When streets parallel to the railroad right of way intersect a
street which crosses the railroad right of way at grade, they shall, to the
extent practicable, be at a distance of at least one hundred fifty feet (150')
from the railroad right of way. Such distance shall be determined with due
consideration of the minimum distance required for future separation of grades
by means of appropriate approach gradients.
      6.   Intersections:
         a.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles. A proposed intersection of two (2) new streets at an
angle of less than seventy five degrees (75o) shall not be acceptable. An
oblique street should be curved approaching an intersection and should be
approximately at right angles for at least one hundred feet (100') therefrom.
Not more than two (2) streets shall intersect at any one point unless
specifically approved by the city council.
         b.   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than
two hundred feet (200') shall not be permitted, except where the intersected
street has separated dual drives without median breaks at either intersection.
Where streets intersect major streets, their alignment shall be continuous.
Intersection of major streets shall be at least eight hundred feet (800')
apart.
         c.   Minimum curb radius at the intersection of two (2) local streets
shall be at least twenty feet (20'); and minimum curb radius at an intersection
involving a collector street shall be at least twenty five feet (25'). Alley
intersections and abrupt changes in alignment within a block shall have corners
cut off in accordance with standard engineering practices to permit safe
vehicular movement.
         d.   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a
leveling area shall be provided having not greater than a two percent (2%) rate
at a distance of sixty feet (60'), measured from the nearest right of way line
of the intersecting street.
         e.   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or
existing vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by
limiting visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation
(including trees) in connection with the grading of the public right of way to
the extent deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
         f.   The cross slopes on all streets, including intersections, shall
be three percent (3%) or less.
      7.   Bridges: Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant, as determined
by the city council, shall be constructed at the full expense of the applicant
without reimbursement from the city. The sharing expense for the construction
of bridges not of primary benefit to the applicant, as determined by the city
council, will be fixed by special agreement between the city council. The cost
of bridges that do not solely benefit the developer shall be charged to the
developer pro rata based on the percentage obtained by dividing the service
area of the bridge into the area of the land being developed by the subdivider.
   C.   Street Dedications And Reservations:
      1.   New Perimeter Streets: Street systems in new subdivisions shall be
laid out so as to eliminate or avoid new perimeter half streets. Where an
existing half street is adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the
street shall be improved and dedicated by the subdivider. The city council may
authorize a new perimeter street where the subdivider improves and dedicates
the entire required street right of way width within its own subdivision
boundaries.
      2.   Widening And Realignment Of Existing Streets: Where a subdivision
borders an existing narrow road or when the general plan or zoning setback
regulations indicate plans for realignment or widening a road that would
require use of some of the land in the subdivision, the applicant shall be
required to improve and dedicate at its expense those areas for widening or
realignment of those streets. Frontage roads and streets as described above
shall be improved and dedicated by the applicant at its own expense to the full
width as required by these subdivision regulations when the applicant's
development activities contribute to the need for the road expansion. Land
reserved for any road purposes may not be counted in satisfying yard or area
requirements of the zoning ordinance, whether the land is to be dedicated to
the city in fee simple or an easement is granted to the city. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-
16-2007)
11-5-4: OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Required; Exception: Applicants for the development of any land within
the city shall be required to set aside sensitive lands or potentially
sensitive lands as "open space", as defined in section
11-2-1 of this title, except that, set asides for common open space shall not
be required within the town center area (as shown in the official general plan)
in that the area lacks the ability to have contiguous open space and many
building lots occupy small development parcels in a built up area.
   B.   Amount Required: Open space shall be provided wherever sensitive lands
or potentially sensitive lands exist. Also, open space shall be located
wherever it is deemed necessary by the planning commission to connect adjacent,
existing or future open space and as required to meet open space requirements
for subdivisions. In addition, the developer may locate open space wherever
desirable for the homeowners of the planned residential subdivision. At no time
shall any open space be reduced in size or used or modified beyond its original
intent without the recommendation of the planning commission and final approval
by the city council. Existing open space outside the proposed area shall not be
used in determining the allowed dwelling units for the planned residential
subdivision.
      1.   Minimum Percentage Of Open Space: The minimum percentage of land
that shall be designated as permanent open space, not to be further subdivided,
and protected through a conservation easement held by the city or by a
recognized land trust, conservancy or homeowners' association, shall be as
specified below:
 
Zone                      Percentage Of Open
                          Space Required
RA-5                      50
RCA                       50
RA-1                      40
RA-1/2                    35
R-1-12                    30
Commercial and industrial 20
 
      2.   Permanent Conservation Easement: All open space on any lot shall be
restricted from further subdivision through a permanent conservation easement,
in a form acceptable to the city and recorded in the county recorder's office.
      3.   Recreation Use: At least twenty five percent (25%) of the minimum
required open space shall be suitable for active recreation purposes, and not
more than fifty percent (50%) shall be used for active recreation in order to
preserve a proportion of natural areas on the site. The purpose for which open
areas are proposed shall be documented by the applicant.
   C.   Type Of Ownership Allowed For Open Space:
      1.   General:
         a.   Different ownership and management options apply to the
permanently protected open space created through the planned residential
subdivision process. The open space of sensitive lands or potentially sensitive
lands shall remain undivided and may be owned and managed by a homeowners'
association, the city, or a recognized land trust or conservancy. A public land
dedication, not exceeding ten percent (10%) of the total parcel size, may be
required by the city through the sensitive lands to facilitate trail
connections. A narrative describing ownership, use and maintenance
responsibilities shall be submitted for all common and public improvements,
utilities and open space within undivided lands. If, at any time, the ownership
of open space is changed to another form of ownership allowed herein, the
ownership change must be approved by the city council and the city must be
provided the first right to accept or acquire the open space.
         b.   The ownership of all or any portion of open space shall not
change by transfer, deeding, quitclaim, purchase, or by any other method,
without the review and approval by the planning commission and city council.
Leasing, renting or use by any entity or person other than the homeowners'
association of any portion of the open space shall be reviewed and approved by
the planning commission.
      2.   Ownership Standards: Undivided lands within a development shall be
owned, administered and maintained by any of the following methods, either
individually or in combination, and subject to approval by the city:
         a.   Offer Of Dedication: The city shall have the first and last offer
of dedication of undivided lands in the event said land is to be conveyed.
Dedication shall take the form of a fee simple ownership. The city may, but
shall not be required to, accept undivided lands; provided, that:
            (1)   Such land is accessible to the residents of the city;
            (2)   There is no cost of acquisition other than any cost
incidental to the transfer of ownership such as title insurance; and
            (3)   The city agrees to and has access to maintain such lands.
Where the city accepts dedication of undivided lands that contain improvements,
the city may require the posting of financial security to ensure satisfactory
functioning and structural integrity of improvements for a term not to exceed
eighteen (18) months from the date of acceptance of dedication. The amount of
financial security shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the actual cost of
installation of said improvements.
         b.   Homeowners' Association (HOA): The undivided lands and associated
facilities may be held in common ownership by a homeowners' association. The
HOA shall be formed and operated under the following provisions:
            (1)   The developer shall provide covenants, conditions and
restrictions (CC&Rs) of the association, including its bylaws, articles of
incorporation and methods for maintaining the undivided lands. The CC&Rs shall
be reviewed and approved in content and form by the city. Acceptance of the
CC&Rs by the city will be contingent upon meeting the intent and conditions
required by this code. The CC&Rs will be approved by the city prior to filing
the final plat. The CC&Rs will be recorded by the city manager at the county
recorder's office at the time of the filing of the final plat.
            (2)   The association shall be organized by the developer and be
operated with financial subsidization by the developer, before the sale of any
lots within the development.
            (3)   Membership in the association is automatic (mandatory) for
all purchasers of homes or lots therein and their successors. The conditions
and timing of transferring control of the association from developer to
homeowners shall be identified in the CC&Rs.
            (4)   The association shall be responsible for maintenance of
insurance and taxes on undivided lands, enforceable by liens placed by the
city.
            (5)   The members of the association shall share equitably the
costs of maintaining and developing such undivided lands. Fees shall be
determined by the association and assessed and deposited in an escrow account.
Shares shall be defined within the association bylaws.
            (6)   The developer of the subdivision shall endow the newly formed
homeowners' association with funds equivalent to ten percent (10%) of the
development cost for all common improvements which shall be used by the HOA to
operate, maintain and insure the HOA for the first year that the association
begins to operate independently of the developer. Funds shall be deposited in
the checking account in the name of the HOA within ten (10) days after the day
which the HOA begins to operate independently of the developer.
            (7)   In the event of a proposed transfer, within the methods
herein permitted, of undivided lands by the homeowners' association, or of the
assumption of maintenance of the undivided lands by the city, notice of such
action shall be given to all property owners within the development.
            (8)   All improvements to the undivided lands held in common or
intended to be held in common by the HOA shall be installed, completed and
accepted prior to the beginning of the second phase of construction, or if
project is not phased, prior to sale of all lots. If phasing of the
improvements to the undivided lands is required by the developer, all
incomplete improvements for the undivided lands shall be secured through a bond
posted by the developer.
            (9)   The association shall have or hire adequate staff to
administer common facilities and properly and continually maintain the
undivided lands.
            (10)   The homeowners' association may lease undivided lands to any
other qualified person, or corporation, for operation and maintenance of
undivided lands by lease agreement, which shall provide:
   (A) The residents of the development shall at all times have access to the
undivided lands contained therein;
   (B) The undivided lands to be leased shall be maintained for the purposes
set forth in this title; and
   (C) The operation of facilities within the undivided lands may be for the
benefit of the residents only, or may be open to the residents of the city, at
the election of the developer and/or homeowners' association, as the case may
be;
   (D) The lease shall be subject to the approval of the city council and any
transfer or assignment of the lease shall be further subject to the approval of
the city council. Lease agreements shall be recorded with the county recorder
within thirty (30) days of the execution and a copy of the recorded lease shall
be filed with the city.
         c.   Conservation Easement: A conservation easement shall be
established to provide a permanent preservation of the undivided lands (open
space). The easement shall be indicated on the recorded plat and state the
ownership of the easement and reference the maintenance agreement also recorded
with the final plat stating the standards of upkeep as defined in these
subdivision regulations.
         d.   Transfer Of Easements To Private Conservation Organization: With
the recommendation of the planning commission and the permission of the city
council, an owner may transfer easements or ownership to a private nonprofit
organization, among whose purposes it is to conserve undivided land; provided,
that:
            (1)   The organization is acceptable to the planning commission and
the city council, and is a bona fide conservation organization with perpetual
existence;
            (2)   The conveyance contains appropriate provision for proper
reverter or retransfer in event that the organization becomes unwilling or
unable to continue carrying out its functions; and
            (3)   A maintenance agreement acceptable to the planning commission
and the city council is entered into by the developer and the organization.
      3.   Maintenance Standards:
         a.   The following standards shall be fulfilled and shall be recorded
on the face of the final plat:
Wellsville City shall have the right, but not the duty, to require, and if
necessary, perform, at the organization's expense, landscaping, maintenance and
snow removal, as applicable, within the open space areas if the organization
fails adequately to perform such. The city may take this action when asked to
take over improvements or maintenance tasks by an organization. The city
council may also take such action when it determines the need based on a
historical pattern of lack of care and maintenance. In the event Wellsville
City exercises this right, the city shall be entitled to recover any associated
costs and attorney fees. This notation shall not be amended or deleted without
the approval of Wellsville City.
         b.   The owner of the undivided lands shall be responsible for
maintenance and the raising of all monies required for operations, maintenance
or physical improvements to the undivided lands through annual dues, special
assessments, etc. The maintenance organization shall be authorized, under its
bylaws, to place liens on the property of residents who fall delinquent in
payment of such dues, assessments, etc.
         c.   In the event that the maintenance organization, or any successor
organization, shall, at any time after establishment of a development
containing undivided lands, fail to maintain the undivided lands in reasonable
order and condition in accordance with the development plan, the city may serve
written notice upon the owner of record, setting forth the manner in which the
owner of record has failed to maintain the undivided land in reasonable
condition.
         d.   Failure to adequately maintain the undivided lands in reasonable
order and condition constitutes a violation of this title. The city is hereby
authorized to give notice, by personal delivery or by United States postal
service, to the owner or occupant, as the case may be, of any violation,
directing the owner to remedy the same within twenty (20) days. Further, the
city shall be authorized to assume maintenance of the undivided lands in such a
manner as it deems appropriate.
         e.   Should any bill or bills for maintenance of the undivided lands
by the city be unpaid by January 1 of each year, a lien shall be filed against
the premises in the same manner as other municipal claims. A late fee of
fifteen percent (15%) annually shall be added to such bills, and the city shall
be entitled to recover any costs and attorney fees incurred in collecting or
recovering any such amounts due to the city.
      4.   Access By Public Upon Completion Of Improvements Within Undivided
Lands: The public shall have access, when mutually agreed by all parties,
including the city. Lots designed with the rear facing open spaces shall be
accessible at all times and all locations. At no time shall public access be
denied unless unsafe conditions exist or unless approved by the city. Public
access within undivided lands shall be allowed only where identified and
allowed within the approval documents.
11-5-5: DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS:
   A.   General Requirements: The developer shall comply with the storm sewer
code as contained in title 8, chapter 5 of this code. The planning commission
shall not recommend for approval any plat of subdivision that does not make
adequate provision for storm and floodwater runoff channels or basins. The
stormwater drainage system shall be separate and independent of any sanitary
sewer system. Storm sewers shall be designed for a 100-year storm occurrence by
the rational method, or other methods as approved by the planning commission,
and a copy of design computations shall be submitted along with plans. Inlets
shall be provided so that surface water is not carried across or around any
intersection, nor for a distance of more than six hundred feet (600') in the
gutter. When calculations indicate that curb capacities are exceeded at a
point, no further allowance shall be made for flow beyond that point, and
basins shall be used to intercept flow at that point. Surface water drainage
patterns shall be shown for each and every lot and block.
   B.   Grading And Drainage Plan: A grading and drainage plan shall be
prepared by a professional engineer registered in the state and shall be
submitted and approved by the city engineer prior to the approval of the final
plat for the subdivision. The plan shall include at least the following:
      1.   A map of the entire site with existing and proposed contours using a
minimum of five foot (5') contour intervals at the same scale as the concept
plan.
      2.   Proposed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface drainage
devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other protective
devices to be constructed to control stormwater runoff and soil erosion.
      3.   A plan showing temporary erosion control measures.
      4.   A written statement by the person or firm preparing the report
identifying any grading and drainage problems of the development and further
stating an opinion as to the ability of the proposed plan to mitigate or
eliminate such problems in a manner as to prevent hazard to life or property,
adverse effects on the safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage
channel, and adverse impact on the natural environment.
   C.   Nature Of Stormwater Facilities:
      1.   Location: The applicant may be required by the planning commission
to carry away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that may exist
either previously to, or as a result of, the subdivision. Such drainage
facilities shall be located in the road right of way where feasible, or in
perpetual unobstructed easements of appropriate width, and shall be constructed
in accordance with the design standards and construction specifications.
      2.   Accessibility To Public Storm Sewers:
         a.   Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall
install storm sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable
distance, adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of stormwaters,
subject to the specifications of the city engineer. However, in subdivisions
containing lots less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet in area and in
business and industrial districts, underground storm sewer systems shall be
constructed throughout the subdivisions and be conducted to an approved
outfall. Facilities shall be approved and inspected by the city engineer.
         b.   If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided
eventually, as determined by the city engineer, the applicant shall make
arrangements for future stormwater disposal by a public utility system at the
time the plat receives final approval. Provision for such connection shall be
incorporated by inclusion in the subdivision improvement agreement required for
the subdivision plat.
      3.   Accommodation Of Upstream Drainage Areas: A culvert or other
drainage facility shall in each case be large enough to accommodate potential
runoff from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
subdivision. The city engineer shall determine the necessary size of the
facility, based on the provisions of the construction standards and
specifications assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed development
permitted by the zoning ordinance.
      4.   Effect On Downstream Drainage Areas: The city engineer shall also
study the effect of each subdivision on existing downstream drainage facilities
outside the area of the subdivision. City drainage studies, together with such
other studies as shall be appropriate, shall serve as a guide to needed
improvements. Where it is anticipated that the additional runoff incident to
the development of the subdivision will overload an existing downstream
drainage facility, the planning commission may withhold approval of the
subdivision until provision has been made for the expansion of the existing
downstream drainage facility. No subdivision shall be approved unless adequate
drainage will be provided to an adequate drainage watercourse or facility.
      5.   Areas Of Poor Drainage: Whenever a plat is submitted for an area
that is subject to flooding, the planning commission may approve such
subdivision to an elevation sufficient to place the elevation of streets and
lots at a minimum of twelve inches (12") above the elevation of the 100-year
floodplain, as determined by the city engineer. The plat of the subdivision
shall provide for an overflow zone along the bank of any stream or watercourse,
in a width that shall be sufficient in times of high water to contain or move
the water, and no fill shall be placed in the overflow zone, nor shall any
structure be erected or placed in the overflow zone. The boundaries of the
overflow zone shall be subject to approval by the city engineer. The planning
commission may deny subdivision approval for areas of extremely poor drainage.
      6.   Floodplain Areas: The planning commission may, when it deems it
necessary for the health, safety or welfare of the present and future
population of the area and necessary to the conservation of water, drainage and
sanitary facilities, prohibit the subdivision of any portion of the property
that lies within the floodplain of any stream or drainage course. These
floodplain areas shall be preserved from any and all destruction or damage
resulting from clearing, grading or dumping of earth, waste material or stumps,
except at the discretion of the planning commission.
   D.   Dedication Of Drainage Easements:
      1.   General Requirements: When a subdivision is traversed by a
watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be provided a
stormwater easement or drainage right of way conforming substantially to the
lines of such watercourse, and of such width and construction as will be
adequate for the purpose. Wherever possible, it is desirable that the drainage
be maintained by an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for
maximum potential volume of flow as approved by the city engineer.
      2.   Drainage Easements:
         a.   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within road rights of way,
perpetual, unobstructed easements at least fifteen feet (15') in width for
drainage facilities shall be provided across property outside the road lines
and with satisfactory access to the road. Easements shall be indicated on the
final plat. Drainage easements shall extend from the road to a natural
watercourse or to other drainage facilities.
         b.   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and
indicated on the final plat.
         c.   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by a drainage or
conservation easement, land on both sides of existing watercourses to a
distance to be determined by the planning commission.
         d.   Low lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as
drainageways. Such land or lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be
computed in determining the number of lots to be utilized for average density
procedures, nor for computing the area requirement of any lot. (Ord. 2007-05,
5-16-2007)
11-5-6: WATER FACILITIES:
In addition to the requirements of this section, the design standards and
construction specifications, as officially adopted, show construction details
and specifications.
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Main Not Accessible: When a public water main is not accessible, the
developer shall take necessary action to extend or create a water supply
district for the purpose of providing a water supply system capable of
providing for domestic water use and fire protection.
      2.   Main Accessible: When a public water main is accessible, the
developer shall install adequate water facilities (including fire hydrants)
subject to the specifications of state or local authorities. All water mains
shall be at least eight inches (8") in diameter, or as otherwise shown in the
city water master plan.
      3.   Approval Of Extensions: Water main extensions shall be approved by
the officially designated agency of the state or city.
      4.   Fire Hydrants; Water Supply Improvements: The location of all fire
hydrants, all water supply improvements and the boundary lines of proposed
districts, indicating all improvements proposed to be served, shall be shown on
the plat and final construction drawings. The cost of installing the same shall
be borne by the developer and all construction completed, dedicated and
accepted by the city before the final plat is signed and recorded; or if
permitted, such required improvements shall be included in the subdivision
improvement agreement and security to be furnished by the developer.
   B.   Individual Wells And Central Water Systems:
      1.   May Be Permitted: In zoning districts with a density of one unit per
five (5) acres or less, and when a public water system is not available, in the
discretion of the city council, individual wells may be used or a central water
system provided in a manner so that an adequate supply and storage of potable
water will be available to every lot in the subdivision. Water samples shall be
submitted to the health department for its approval, and individual wells and
central water systems shall be approved by the appropriate health authorities
and the fire chief. Approvals shall be submitted to the planning commission
prior to recommendation of final subdivision plat approval.
      2.   Future Service: If the city council requires that a connection to a
public water main be eventually provided as a condition to approval of an
individual well or central water system, the applicant shall make arrangements
prior to receiving final plat approval for future water service. Performance or
cash bonds may be required to ensure compliance.
   C.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions.
Fire hydrants shall be located no more than five hundred feet (500') apart and
within five hundred feet (500') of any structure and shall be approved by the
applicable fire protection unit. To eliminate future street openings, all
underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire hydrants
themselves, and all other supply improvements, shall be installed before any
final paving of a street shown on the subdivision plat. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-
2007)
11-5-7: SEWER FACILITIES:
In addition to the requirements of this section, the design standards and
construction specifications, as officially adopted, show construction details
and specifications.
   A.   General Requirements: The applicant shall install sanitary sewer
facilities in a manner prescribed by the city design standards and construction
specifications. All plans shall be designed and approved in accordance with the
rules, regulations and standards of the city engineer, health department and
other appropriate agency. Necessary action shall be taken by the applicant to
extend or create a sanitary sewer district for the purpose of providing
sewerage facilities to the subdivision when no district exists for the land to
be subdivided.
   B.   High To Medium Density Residential And Nonresidential Districts:
Sanitary sewerage facilities shall connect with public sanitary sewerage
systems. Sewers shall be installed to serve each lot and to grades and sizes
required by approving officials and agencies. No individual disposal system or
treatment plants (private or group disposal systems) shall be permitted unless
specifically approved by the planning commission and the city council. Sanitary
sewerage facilities (including the installation of laterals in the right of
way) shall be subject to the specifications, rules, regulations and guidelines
of the health officer, city engineer and appropriate state agency.
   C.   Low Density Residential Districts: Sanitary sewerage systems shall be
constructed as follows:
      1.   When a public sanitary sewerage system is within three hundred feet
(300') 1  of a lot or subdivision, the applicant shall connect with the same
and provide sewer lateral connections accessible to each lot in the
subdivision.
      2.   When public sanitary sewerage systems are not reasonably accessible
but will become available within a reasonable time (not to exceed 15 years),
the applicant may choose one of the following alternatives, subject to
acceptance by the city and subject to meeting federal and state regulations:
         a.   Central sewerage system with the maintenance cost to be assessed
against each property benefited. Where plans for future public sanitary
sewerage systems exist, the applicant shall install the sewer lines, laterals
and mains to be in permanent conformance with such plans and ready for
connection to such public sewer mains.
         b.   Individual disposal systems, provided the applicant shall install
sanitary sewer lines, laterals and mains from the street curb to a point in the
subdivision boundary where a future connection with the public sewer main shall
be made. Sewer lines shall be laid from the house to the street line, and a
connection shall be available in the home to connect from the individual
disposal system to the sewer system when the public sewers become available.
Such sewer systems shall be capped until ready for use and shall conform to all
plans for installation of the public sewer system, where such exist, and shall
be ready for connection to such public sewer main.
         c.   When sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably accessible and
will not become available for a period in excess of fifteen (15) years, the
applicant may install individual disposal systems, or central sewerage systems
shall be used as approved by the planning commission, the city council and Bear
River health department.
   D.   Mandatory Connection To Public Sewer System: If a public sanitary sewer
is within three hundred feet (300') 2  of a lot or subdivision, the owner of
the property shall be required to connect to the sewer for the purpose of
disposing of waste, and it shall be unlawful for any such owner or occupant to
maintain upon any such property an individual sewage disposal system.
   E.   Individual Disposal System Requirements: If public sewer facilities are
not available and individual disposal systems are proposed, minimum lot areas
shall conform to the requirements of the zoning ordinance and percolation
tests, and test holes shall be made as directed by the health department. The
individual disposal system, including the size of the septic tanks and size of
the tile fields or other secondary treatment device, shall also be approved by
the health officer. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
   F.   Design Criteria For Sanitary Sewers: See separate document, design
standards and construction specifications for sanitary sewer installations on
file in the city office. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
  4-7-3B, section
1 8-1E-13, subsection
  8-3-2D of this code, and subsection D of this section for 300 foot connection
  requirements.
  1. See also subsection
  4-7-3B, section
2 8-1E-13, subsection
  8-3-2D of this code, and subsection C1 of this section for 300 foot
  connection requirements.
11-5-8: SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND GUTTER:
   A.   Required Improvements:
      1.   Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated non-pavement right
of way of all streets shown in the design standards and construction
specifications.
      2.   Concrete curbs or drainage swales are required for all streets as
directed from City Council, when required in the standard specification for
subdivision as adopted by the city council.
      3.   Sidewalks shall be improved as required in the standard
specifications for subdivisions. A median strip of grassed or landscaped areas
at least eight feet (8') wide shall separate all sidewalks from adjacent curbs
or pavement.
         a.   Where conditions exist which make it impractical to install curb,
gutter, and/or sidewalk the City Council may allow developers/owners to pay a
fee in-lieu of constructing the required improvements. The developer/owner
shall pay to the City a fee equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the
estimated cost of such improvements. The City Engineer shall determine or
review and approve the estimated cost. Upon payment of fees by the developer,
the City shall assume the responsibility for future installation of such
improvements.
         b.   The City Treasurer shall place such fees in a special account and
shall credit to the account a proportioned share of interest earned from
investment of City monies. Records relating to identification of properties for
which fees have been collected, fee amounts collected for such properties, and
money transfer requests, shall be the responsibility of the City Manager. The
City Manager shall only use funds for the same type of improvements for which
funds were collected. Funds shall also be used to construct improvements in the
general vicinity where they were collected.
   B.   Pedestrian Access: The planning commission may require, in order to
facilitate pedestrian access from the streets to schools, parks, playgrounds or
other nearby streets, perpetual unobstructed easements at least twenty feet
(20') in width. Easements shall be indicated on the plat. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-
2007; amd. Ord. 2019-01, 6-5-2019)
11-5-9: UTILITIES:
   A.   Location: All utility facilities, including, but not limited to, gas,
electric power, telephone and TV cables, shall be located underground
throughout the subdivision. Whenever existing utility facilities are located
aboveground, except when existing on public streets and rights of way, they
shall be removed and placed underground. All utility facilities existing and
proposed throughout the subdivision shall be shown on the construction drawings
with the final plat. Underground service connections for platted lots shall be
installed at the subdivider’s expense. At the discretion of the city council,
the requirement for service connections to each lot may be waived in the case
of adjoining lots to be retained in single ownership and intended to be
developed for the same primary use.
   B.   Easements:
      1.   A ten (10) foot wide utility access easement shall be required for
municipal and private utilities, within the front yard setback, running along
the entire length of the front property line.
      2.   Easements shall be provided along the property line within the side
and rear yard setbacks only when the city deems necessary.
      3.   All required easements shall be shown on the final plat.
(Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-18-2023)
11-5-10: PUBLIC USES:
   A.   Plat To Provide For Public Uses: When land is set aside by the
developer as required by the provision of the zoning ordinance, whenever a
tract to be subdivided includes a school, recreation use or other public use as
indicated on the general plan or any portion thereof, the space shall be
suitably incorporated by the applicant into its concept plan. After proper
determination of its necessity by the planning commission and the appropriate
city official or other public agency involved in the acquisition and use of
each such site and a determination has been made to acquire the site by the
public agency, the site shall be suitably incorporated by the applicant into
the preliminary and final plats.
   B.   Referral To Public Body: The planning commission shall refer the
concept plan to the public body concerned with acquisition for its
consideration and report. The planning commission may propose alternate areas
for such acquisition and shall allow the public body or agency thirty (30) days
for reply. The agency's recommendation, if affirmative, shall include a map
showing the boundaries and area of the parcel to be acquired and an estimate of
the time required to complete the acquisition.
   C.   Notice To Property Owner: Upon a receipt of an affirmative report, the
city council shall notify the property owner and shall designate on the
preliminary and final plats that area proposed to be acquired by the public
body.
   D.   Duration Of Land Reservation: The acquisition of land reserved by a
public agency on the final plat shall be initiated within twelve (12) months of
notification, in writing, from the owner that he intends to develop the land.
Such letter of intent shall be accompanied by a concept plan of the proposed
development and a tentative schedule of construction. Failure on the part of
the public agency to initiate acquisition within the prescribed twelve (12)
months shall result in the removal of the "reserved" designation from the
property involved and the freeing of the property for development in accordance
with these regulations. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
11-5-11: PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES:
   A.   General: Existing features that would add value to residential
development or to the city as a whole, such as "trees", as herein defined,
watercourses and falls, beaches, historic spots, and similar irreplaceable
assets, shall be preserved in the design of the subdivision. No trees shall be
removed from any subdivision nor any change of grade of the land affected until
approval of the final plat has been granted. All trees on the plat required to
be retained shall be preserved, and all trees where required shall be welled
and protected against change of grade. The construction drawings accompanying
the final plat shall show the number and location of existing trees as required
by these regulations and shall further indicate all those marked for retention
and the location of all proposed shade trees required along the street side of
each lot as required by these regulations.
   B.   Shade Trees Planted By Developer:
      1.   As a requirement of subdivision approval, the applicant shall plant
shade trees on the property of the subdivision. Such trees are to be planted in
the middle of the park strip as required in the design standards and
construction specifications. Trees shall be planted on all streets within and
abutting the subdivision, or, at the discretion of the planning commission,
within the right of way of such streets. One tree shall be planted for every
thirty feet (30') of frontage along each road unless the city council, upon
recommendation of the city shade tree and beautification commission 1 , shall
grant a waiver. The waiver shall be granted only if there are trees growing
along the right of way or on the abutting property which, in the opinion of the
planning commission, comply with these regulations.
      2.   New trees to be provided pursuant to these regulations shall be
approved by the city shade tree and beautification commission and shall be
planted in accordance with the regulations of the shade tree and beautification
commission. The trees shall have a minimum trunk diameter (measured 12 inches
above ground level) of not less than two inches (2"). Streets shall be planted
in accordance with the street tree master plan as to species and locations.
      3.   Whenever street trees cannot be successfully planted at the time of
final acceptance of the subdivision, the developer shall pay fees in lieu of
planting on the basis of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per required tree.
In lieu fees shall be retained by the city, and planting will be performed by
the city or its contractor upon completion of landscaping of each lot in the
subdivision.
   C.   Shade Tree Compliance: No street shall be accepted for dedication until
compliance, where necessary, has been made with these regulations. (Ord. 2007-
05, 5-16-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 5 of this code.
11-5-12: NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   General: If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for
commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect
to the land shall make provision as the planning commission may require. A
nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to all the requirements of
conditional use approval set forth in the zoning ordinance. A nonresidential
subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of these regulations, as
well as such additional standards required by the planning commission, and
shall conform to the proposed land use and standards established in the general
plan and zoning ordinance.
   B.   Standards: In addition to the principles and standards in these
regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the planning commission that
the street, parcel and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the
uses anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The
following principles and standards shall be observed:
      1.   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions
to the types of industrial development anticipated.
      2.   Street rights of way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
      3.   Special requirements may be imposed by the city with respect to
street, curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction.
      4.   Special requirements may be imposed by the city with respect to the
installation of public utilities, including water, sewer and stormwater
drainage.
      5.   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing onto existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip, when necessary.
      6.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas, except where mixed use projects are acceptable to
the city. (Ord. 2007-05, 5-16-2007)
CHAPTER 6
DEDICATION OF WATER SHARES
SECTION:
11-6-1: Dedication Of Water System Shares, Water Rights And/Or Sources
11-6-2: Operational Policy For Dedication Of Water Rights
11-6-1: DEDICATION OF WATER SYSTEM SHARES, WATER RIGHTS AND/OR SOURCES:
   A.   Requirements: Prior to final approval or recordation of the final plat
of any subdivision or other development activity requiring culinary and/or
irrigation water service from the city, the developer shall transfer and
dedicate to the city, the unencumbered, clear title to a sufficient quantity of
water system shares, water rights and/or sources, necessary to provide and
deliver culinary and irrigation water to each lot, dwelling unit and/or other
use within the new development; or shall pay the fees in lieu of the transfer
of water system shares, water rights and/or sources as herein provided and
allowed.
   B.   Sufficient Quantity Of Water Defined: A "sufficient quantity of water"
shall be defined as a sufficient number of water system shares, water rights
and/or sources, to provide a minimum of three (3) acre feet of water per acre
of land proposed for subdivision and/or development, which shall include open
space and all other real property included in the proposed subdivision and/or
development. The city council may reasonably adjust this amount depending on
the type of subdivision and development requested and the water requirements
therefor, and may give credit for any transfers/dedications of water previously
made to the city by the developer, and credit for impact fees paid or to be
paid, if any, relating to the acquisition of water system shares, water rights
and/or sources, that the city council determines is appropriate.
   C.   Excess; City Right To Purchase: When a developer seeks to develop real
property within the city and the developer has water system shares, water
rights and/or sources that exceed the amount required for transfer and
dedication to the city, the city shall have the first right to purchase such
excess water system shares, water rights and/or sources at fair market value,
when said excess water system shares, water rights and/or sources are offered
for sale. Fair market value shall be determined, in good faith, by reference to
comparable sales of the same type of water system shares, water rights and/or
sources, a bona fide written offer to purchase received by the developer from a
legitimate prospective purchaser, an appraisal, affidavits and other
information and documents from those who are familiar with the fair market
value of the water involved, and any other information as may be relevant and
available to the developer and the city. A failure by the city to exercise such
first right to purchase within four (4) months after receiving written notice
offering to sell said excess water system shares, water rights and/or sources
to the city, shall constitute a waiver by the city to have and exercise said
first right to purchase. The developer shall work with the city at the time of
the original transfer and dedication of water system shares, water rights and/
or sources to the city in notifying the appropriate officials at the irrigation
and/or canal company involved and otherwise notifying the persons or entities
necessary, of the first right to purchase as provided for in this subsection,
and in marking on the certificate or other documentary evidence of said excess
water system shares, water rights and/or sources of the city's first right to
purchase. Provided, further, that in the process of annexing real property to
the city, whether for subdivision and/or development immediately upon
annexation to the city, for subdivision and/or development in the future, or
for other purposes, the city may require, as a condition for annexation, that
the transfer and dedication of a sufficient quantity of water system shares,
water rights and/or sources be transferred and dedicated to the city, and/or
that any excess water system shares, water rights and/or sources be sold to the
city at fair market value, determined as provided herein, at the time the real
property proposed for annexation is annexed to the city.
   D.   Specific Requirements: The water system shares, water rights and/or
sources transferred and dedicated pursuant to the provisions of this section
shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   The water system shares, water rights and/or sources shall be
dedicated and transferred from a canal company, water users' association or
company and/or irrigation company, or from such other rights or sources owned
by or available to the developer, as may be approved by the city engineer and
city council.
      2.   When necessary, the developer shall provide for the transfer of
water system shares, water rights and/or sources to the city and shall assist
in making the water accessible for use by the city by cooperating in the work,
preparation of papers or other activities necessary for any transfer of point
of diversion, change of use, working with the state engineer's office and
irrigation water users or canal company involved, and in accomplishing any
other action required.
      3.   When water system shares, water rights and/or sources are involved
in meeting the requirements of this chapter, it shall be the responsibility of
the developer to provide accurate and reliable information as to the amount of
water available and/or represented by said water system shares, water rights
and/or sources, in order that the three (3) acre foot requirement of subsection
B of this section is met.
      4.   When an annexation, subdivision and/or development is proposed and
the real property involved either already has a secondary or irrigation water
system in place, which will continue to be used, completely or partially, with
the water to remain in the system; or a secondary or irrigation water system is
proposed to be constructed which will be used, completely or partially, within
the development, with the water to remain in the system, the developer and the
city may proceed as provided in this subsection. The city, with the assistance
of the city engineer, the developer and the recommendation of the planning
commission, may make provision for such circumstances by allowing the transfer
and dedication to occur in such a way that the water system shares, water
rights and/or sources are divided, credit given, or adjustments otherwise made
that equitably recognize the existence of and the continued usefulness of the
existing secondary/irrigation water system and the water dedicated for its use
or the future existence of and continued usefulness of a secondary/irrigation
water system to be constructed and the water dedicated for its use.
   E.   Payment Of Fees In Lieu Of Dedication: The dedication of water system
shares, water rights and/or sources shall be required of all developers
proposing development that will require culinary and/or irrigation water
service from the city, and from all persons requesting annexation to the city.
An exception may be granted by the city council to allow for the payment of
fees in lieu of, or the waiver, in whole or in part, of the transfer/dedication
of water system shares, water rights and/or sources with the following
criteria, and any other deemed relevant by the city council, to be evaluated by
the city council:
      1.   The literal enforcement of this provision would cause an
unreasonable hardship for the developer.
      2.   There are special circumstances relating to the proposed development
property, which created the absence of valid water system shares, water rights
and/or sources that were not within the control of the developer or any
predecessor in interest, or the annexation petitioner.
      3.   When development can occur upon all or part of the development
property without the need for culinary or irrigation water, the requirement for
the transfer/dedication of water system shares, water rights and/or sources, or
payment of the fees in lieu of transfer/dedication may be waived in whole or in
part.
      4.   The payment of the fee in lieu of the transfer/dedication of water
system shares, water rights and/or sources is preferable to the city.
      5.   The grant of an exception shall run with the land.
      6.   If this exception is granted, without a complete waiver, as provided
in subsection E3 of this section, the city shall assess a fee to the developer
in lieu of the transfer and dedication of the otherwise required water system
shares, water rights and/or sources in an amount per unit of water that would
otherwise be required, which amount shall be established as a part of setting
the new budget each year by the city council, by reference to documented sales
of water system shares, water rights and/or sources, the appraised value of the
same, if available, and by reference to other relevant data and information,
and with the advice and assistance of such professionals and other individuals
as the city council deems appropriate and necessary. The amount of the required
fee as determined by the city council shall be adopted by resolution or
ordinance of the city council and shall remain in effect for the following
fiscal year or from July 1 until June 30 of each fiscal year, or until the
effective date of a subsequent resolution or ordinance of the city council. The
first such fee shall be set by resolution or ordinance of the city council as
soon as is feasible after the adoption of this chapter and shall remain in
effect until June 30, 2006, or until the effective date of a subsequent
resolution or ordinance setting said fee. The city council may work with the
developer in negotiating payment schedules to allow for the payment of required
fees over time, by phases, set an interest rate, if any, and have the final
agreement reduced to writing and signed by both parties.
   F.   Action Of City Council: The city council, after considering a request
for exception under this chapter, may:
      1.   Accept a fee in lieu of the dedication, as provided above;
      2.   Deny development until this requirement is met; or
      3.   Take such other action as is reasonable and equitable.
   G.   Accounting Of Funds: Any funds paid to and received by the city in lieu
of the transfer and dedication of water system shares, water rights and/or
sources shall be accounted for separately within the city water fund and used
solely for city water related expenditures.
   H.   Annexations: Any proposed annexation of real property to the city shall
also be subject to the requirements of this chapter, in the same manner as if
the proposed annexation property were being presented to the city for
development. It is the intention of the city that in the case of an annexation
petition, the necessary water system shares, water rights and/or sources be
transferred and dedicated to the city as a condition of annexation in order to
assure, to the extent possible, that the required water system shares, water
rights and/or sources be available to and owned by the city at the time said
annexed property is proposed for development and is developed in the future.
The provisions contained in subsection E of this section, relating to an
exception to the water dedication requirements, may also apply, within the sole
discretion of the city council, as a part of an annexation action by the city.
The city may also postpone the water transfer/dedication or payment of a fee in
lieu thereof, from the time of annexation, to the time a proposed development
obtains final approval, but prior to plat recordation, within its sole
discretion.
   I.   Lease Back: The city agrees that unless there are circumstances
existing which make it unwise, unreasonable and/or contrary to the best
interests of the city, that the city may lease back the water represented by
water system shares, water rights and/or sources transferred to the city, or
may lease back the water represented by other rights or sources transferred to
the city in compliance with the terms and provisions of this chapter, to the
developer or other person transferring the water system shares, water rights
and/or sources to the city, for the continued use of said water by the
transferor of the same or other person, until the development of the real
property, which development or annexation activity caused the dedication and
transfer to the city to be made. The lease payment to be paid by the transferor
or other user of the water system shares, water rights and/or sources, for the
use of the water, shall be an amount equal to the annual assessments levied
against any shares of an irrigation or canal company, or the amount agreed to
by the transferor or other user and the city. The lease back arrangements shall
be reduced to writing in the form of a short agreement which shall be signed by
both parties, and may be terminated by the city at any time, upon thirty (30)
days' prior notice. Any lease back agreement or sale of water back to the
developer and/or the transferor or other user shall be expressly deemed to be a
lease or sale of a volume of water and not the sale of a water system share,
water right and/or water source.
   J.   Applicable To Open Space And Common Areas: The water to be transferred
and dedicated to the city as contemplated by this chapter shall also apply to
any open space or common areas within the development. The required water
system shares, water rights and/or sources shall be transferred to the city in
the same manner as for any open space or common areas and shall be used for the
irrigation of said areas, or for other appropriate uses in said areas, except
as otherwise provided by the city council pursuant to this chapter. The use of
treated, culinary water for the irrigation of said open spaces and common areas
shall be avoided to the extent possible.
   K.   Applicability Of Provisions: It is intended that the provisions of this
chapter apply to all development activity within the city, and to all
annexations to the city, except for rare exceptions which may be allowed
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. In this regard, it is intended that
the provisions of this chapter shall also apply to development proposals and
activity, which include such actions commonly referred to as lot splits, where
two (2) lots are made from one.
   L.   Variations: Where unusual or other exceptional, nonself-imposed
conditions or hardships exist, the city council may vary the requirements of
this chapter after receiving the recommendation of the planning commission, the
city engineer and/or any other party or body having relevant information and
which would aid the city council in determining whether or not to vary the
requirements of this chapter; provided, however, that such variations will not
substantially impair the intent of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-12, 10-3-2007)
11-6-2: OPERATIONAL POLICY FOR DEDICATION OF WATER RIGHTS:
   A.   Evaluation Criteria: In determining the quantity of water shares or
water rights required by this chapter, in the dedication of water rights,
payment in lieu of dedication of water rights, or the waiver in whole or in
part of these requirements, each development project shall be evaluated based
on the following criteria, together with those stated in this chapter, as
applicable:
      1.   The number of water shares required may vary according to estimated
water demand of the various land uses within the proposed development.
      2.   The city council may determine not to require dedication of water
shares or payment of in lieu of fees, on certain open space and recreational
property to encourage preservation of open land within a development.
      3.   Water rights or shares may be calculated by phase of development.
   B.   Exceptions: Reasonable exceptions to the requirements of this chapter
may be granted within the authority of and in accordance with the procedures
outlined in this chapter. (Ord. 2007-12, 10-3-2007)
