WEST HAVEN, UTAH
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 03-2025, passed 5-7-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 21-2022
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF WEST HAVEN;
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES; AND ESTABLISHING AN EFFECTIVE DATE FOR THOSE CHANGES.
WHEREAS, West Haven City (herein "City") is a municipal corporation duly
organized and existing under the laws of the State of Utah; and
WHEREAS, in conformance with UCA §10-3-707, the governing body of the city may
revise, codify and compile from time to time and to publish in book, pamphlet
or loose leaf form all ordinances of the municipality of a general and
permanent character and to make such changes, alterations, modifications,
additions, and substitutions as it may deem best; and
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City are
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the City Council of West Haven City has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at the earliest possible date; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF WEST HAVEN CITY, UTAH,
THAT,
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City as revised, amended, restated,
codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall constitute
the "Code of Ordinances of the City of West Haven."
Section 2.    Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
      Title I General Provisions
      Title III Administration
      Title V Public Works
      Title VII Traffic Code
      Title IX General Regulations
      Title XI Business Regulations
      Title XIII General Offenses
      Title XV Land Usage
      Table of Special Ordinances
      Parallel References
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting
or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating, or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of twenty-four hours after
the day of its adoption and approval by the City Council.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This Ordinance shall be effective on the 7th day of September,
2022, and after publication or posting as required by law.
DATED the 7th day of September, 2022.
 
                        WEST HAVEN, a municipal corporation
 
                        /s/ Rob Vanderwood
                        Mayor Rob Vanderwood
 
Attested and recorded               WEST HAVEN, UTAH
                        Corporate Seal
/s/ Emily Green
Emily Green, Recorder
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Captions
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.18   Numbering ordinances
   
10.19   Statutes or codes included and excluded
   
10.20   Purposes and principles of construction
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   The ordinances contained in this code, and all ordinances of a general
nature hereafter adopted and inserted herein, and all amendments, additions,
and changes thereto, shall be part of this code and shall be known, and cited,
as the “Revised Ordinances of West Haven City.”
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Application to future ordinances. All provisions of Title I compatible
with future legislation shall apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or
supplementing this code unless otherwise specifically provided.
   (B)   Offenses defined in this code.
      (1)   Application of code. The provisions of this code shall govern the
construction of, the punishment for, and the defense against any offense
defined in this code or, except where otherwise specifically provided or the
context otherwise requires, any offense defined outside this code, if the
offense was committed after the effective date of this code.
      (2)   Offenses prior to effective date. Any offense committed prior to
the effective date of this code shall be governed by the ordinances of this
municipality existing at the time of commission thereof, except that a defense,
or limitation, on punishment available under this code shall be available to
any defendant tried, or retried, after the effective date. An offense under
this code shall be deemed to have been committed prior to the effective date of
this code if any of the elements of the offense occurred prior to the effective
date.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously-existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly-enacted laws. Any previously-existing law, or amendment
thereto, reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed, or amended, subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously-existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this, or any subsequent, codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   In the construction of the ordinances of this municipality, the following
rules and definitions shall be observed and applied unless such construction
would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of these ordinances.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation.
      (1)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and
understood according to the common use and understanding of the language; the
technical words and phrases, and such other words and phrases as may have
acquired a particular meaning in law, shall be construed, and understood,
according to such particular meaning.
      (2)   Gender - singular and plural. Unless otherwise indicated from the
context of the ordinance, all words used in the singular shall include the
plural, and all words used in the masculine gender shall extend to, and apply
to, the feminine gender.
      (3)   Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the
future and past tense when applicable.
      (4)   Joint authority. Words imputing joint authority to three or more
persons shall be construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons,
unless otherwise declared in the section giving the authority.
      (5)   Acts. Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an
agent or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of
the act by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS. Includes any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation,
or enterprise for which a license is required by any ordinance of this
municipality.
      CITY. The City of West Haven.
      CITY COUNCIL. As used throughout this code, means the legislative body of
the City of West Haven.
      CITY MARSHAL or MARSHAL. As used in this code, all have the same meaning
and may be used interchangeably.
      CLERK. The individual appointed to act as the Clerk of the City of West
Haven.
      CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE. The schedule of fees adopted by the West Haven
City Council setting forth some of the various fees charged by the city.
      COUNTY. Weber, Utah.
      HIGHWAY or ROAD. Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the
words “county way,” “county road,” “common road,” and “state road.”
      LICENSE. Includes any certificate or license issued by this municipality.
      LOCATION. Whenever any act, conduct, or offense is prohibited, or
required, and no reference is made to location, unless the context specifically
indicates otherwise, the act, conduct, or offense prohibited, or required,
shall be within the boundaries of this municipality.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      OFFENSE. Any act, action, or conduct prohibited by this code, or the
failure to perform any acts required in this code.
      OFFICER or OFFICIALS. As used in this code, means any elected or
appointed person employed by the municipality, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or lessee of a whole, or part, of such
building or land.
      PERSON. Includes all individuals, both male and female; any governmental
agency; corporation; partnership; association; company; and every other form of
organization, whether formed voluntarily or involuntarily.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY. Includes both real and personal property.
      STATE. The State of Utah.
      STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, sidewalks, gutters and culverts, crosswalks, and
intersections.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall apply to any
person who occupies all, or any part of, such building or land, either alone or
with others.
      WEEK. Any seven-day period.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Ord. 26-2023, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional, or without effect, by any final
judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment or
decree shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences,
paragraphs, and sections of this code.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the City
Council refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer,
agency, authority, or instrumentality of any government and that name
designation is incorrectly stated, on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed
with that entity are, or were, transferred to a different entity; then, the
named board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its
effective date or not, means that correctly-named entity, or the entity to
which the duties, liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word, or words, necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word, or words, to which no meaning
can be attached; or the use of a word, or words, when another word, or words,
was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and
the word, or words, supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made, or permitted, if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   Reasonable time. In all cases where any ordinance required that an act
be done in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such
reasonable time for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be
necessary for the expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such
notice.
   (B)   Time; how computed. The time within which an act is to be done as
provided in any ordinance or any resolution, or order, of this municipality,
when expressed in days, shall be determined by excluding the first day and
including the last day, except if the last day is a Sunday or a holiday, then
the last day shall be the day next following such Sunday or holiday which is
not a Sunday or holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sundays and all
holidays shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   Repeal of existing ordinances.
      (1)   So far as the provisions of this code are the same as those of
previously-existing ordinances, they shall be construed as continuations
thereof. All ordinances and resolutions of this municipality heretofore in
force, except such as are of a private, local, or temporary nature, including
franchises, grants, dedications, bond issues, elections, and special levies for
local assessments, hereby are repealed except as otherwise provided in division
(A)(2) below.
      (2)   Those ordinances of this municipality which are of a general nature
which are not repealed and which the City Clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to insert in the appropriate place in this code, and which shall be
deemed part of this code are: none.
      (3)   The fees or charges established by the ordinances repealed by this
code of revised ordinances shall remain in effect until subsequently changed by
ordinance or resolution, except that the fees and charges established by this
code shall prevail in the event of a conflict.
   (B)   Effect of repealing ordinances. The repeal of the ordinances, as
provided in division (A) above, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under, or by virtue of, the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force
and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof, as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 CAPTIONS.
   The captions in this code immediately preceding each section are intended as
mere captions to indicate the content of the section, and shall not be deemed,
or taken to be part of, the sections.
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (UCA §             )
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see UCA §             
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way; contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
   (B)   Whenever this code or any ordinance of this city requires that an act
be done, or prohibits an action by any officer, employee, or agent of this
city, the failure to perform the act, or the performance of the act prohibited,
shall not create any liability on the city or the officer.
§ 10.18 NUMBERING ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall, insofar as possible, assign all ordinances of a
general nature adopted after these revised ordinances a number which shall
conform to the numbering system used in this code, and shall indicate upon the
face of the ordinance the date adopted.
   (B)   (1)   The City Clerk shall keep all ordinances of a local, private, or
temporary nature, including franchises, grants, dedications, bond issues, and
tax levies, in a separate book of “Special Ordinances,” properly indexed and
organized according to date adopted.
      (2)   The first number of such an ordinance shall be the last two digits
of the year the ordinance is adopted, followed by a dash which is followed by a
number which shall be a sequential, ascending number indicating the order in
which such special ordinance was adopted during the year.
   (C)   Failure to comply with this section shall not affect, or render
invalid, any ordinance of this municipality.
§ 10.19 STATUTES OR CODES INCLUDED AND EXCLUDED.
   Any reference or citation to any statute shall not be interpreted or
construed to include, incorporate, or make the citation, or statute, part of
this code unless the provisions of this code specifically include, incorporate,
or make the citation, or statute, part of this code by reference or
incorporation, and any such reference or citation not specifically included or
incorporated may be changed, amended, or deleted without publication on an
order of the governing body.
§ 10.20 PURPOSES AND PRINCIPLES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The provisions of this code shall be construed in accordance with these
general purposes to:
   (A)   Forbid and prevent the commission of offenses;
   (B)   Define adequately the conduct and mental state which constitute each
offense, and safeguard conduct without fault from condemnation as criminal;
   (C)   Prescribe penalties which are proportionate to the seriousness of
offenses and which permit recognition of differences in rehabilitation
possibilities among individual offenders; and
   (D)   Prevent arbitrary or oppressive treatment of persons accused or
convicted of offenses.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Sentencing.
      (1)   Penalties for violation of ordinance.
         (a)   Criminal penalty for violation of ordinance:
            1.   Under UCA § 10-3-703, the City Council may impose a minimum
criminal penalty for the violation of any municipal ordinance by a fine not to
exceed the maximum Class B misdemeanor fine under UCA § 76-3-301 or by a term
of imprisonment up to six months, or by both the fine and term of imprisonment.
            2.   Notwithstanding division (A)(1)(a)1. of this section, the city
may not impose a criminal penalty greater than an infraction for a violation
pertaining to an individual's pet, as defined in UCA § 4-12-102, or an
individual's residence unless the violation:
               a.   Is a nuisance as defined in UCA § 78B-6-1101(1); and
               b.   Threatens the health, safety, or welfare of the individual
or an identifiable third party; or
            3.   The city has imposed a fine on the individual for a violation
that involves the same residence or pet on three previous occasions within the
past 12 months.
            4.   Division (A)(1)(a)2. of this section does not apply to
municipal enforcement of a building code or fire code ordinance in accordance
with UCA Title 15A, State Construction and Fire Codes Act.
            5.   The city may not issue more than one infraction within a 14-
day period for a violation described in division (A)(1)(a)2. that is ongoing.
         (b)   Civil:
            1.   Except as provided in division (A)(1)(b)2. of this section,
the City Council may prescribe a civil penalty for the violation of any
municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor
fine under UCA § 76-3-301.
            2.   The city may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication for
the violation of a municipal moving traffic ordinance.
      (2)   Term of imprisonment for misdemeanors. A person who bas been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
         (a)   In the case of a Class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
six months;
         (b)   In the case of a Class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
90 days.
      (3)   Infractions.
         (a)   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but
may be subject to a fine, forfeiture, and disqualification, or any combination.
         (b)   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no
punishment is specified, the person may be fined the same as for a Class C
misdemeanor.
      (4)   Fines of persons. A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
         (a)   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars when the conviction is
of a Class B misdemeanor conviction; and
         (b)   Class C Misdemeanor; infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
when the conviction is of a Class C misdemeanor conviction or infraction
conviction.
      (5)   Fines of corporations. The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed
upon a corporation, association, partnership, or governmental instrumentality
for an offense defined in this Code, or the ordinances of the city, or for an
offense defined outside of the City Code over which this city has jurisdiction,
for which no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount
fixed by the court, not exceeding:
         (a)   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars when the conviction
is for a Class B misdemeanor conviction; and
         (b)   Class C Misdemeanor; infraction: One thousand dollars when the
conviction is for a Class C misdemeanor conviction or for an infraction
conviction.
   (B)   Offenses designated; classified.
      (1)   Sentencing in accordance with chapter.
         (a)   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under the City Code or
the ordinances of the city shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
         (b)   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of the City Code
which involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in
accordance with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
      (2)   Designation of offenses. Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
      (3)   Misdemeanors classified.
         (a)   Misdemeanors are classified into two categories:
            1.   Class B Misdemeanors;
            2.   Class C Misdemeanors.
         (b)   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in the City Code or any ordinance of this city when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a Class B
misdemeanor.
      (4)   Infractions.
         (a)   Infractions are not classified.
         (b)   Any offense which is made an infraction in the City Code or
other ordinances of the city, or which is expressly designated an infraction
and any offense designated by the city code or other ordinances of the city
which is not designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified
is an infraction.
      (5)   Continuing violation. In all instances where the violation of the
City Code or any ordinance of the city hereinafter enacted is a continuing
violation, a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day dming or on
which the violation occurs or continues to occur.
      (6)   Issuing citations.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(6)(b) below or UCA § 77-7-18,
a city officer or official who is not a law enforcement officer in accordance
with UCA § 53-13-103 or a special function officer described in UCA § 53-13-105
may not issue a criminal citation for a violation that is punished as a
misdemeanor.
         (b)   Notwithstanding division (A) or division (B)(6)(a) above, the
following may issue a criminal citation for a violation that is punished as a
misdemeanor if the violation threatens the health and safety of an animal or
the public:
            1.   A fire officer described in UCA § 53-7-102; or
            2.   An animal control officer described in UCA § 11-46-102.
   (C)   Prohibited acts include causing and permitting. Whenever in the
ordinances of the city any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall include
causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering, concealing, or
attempting the fact of such act or omission.
(Ord. 01-2024, passed 1-17-2024)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
      
34.   EMERGENCY OPERATION PLAN
      
35.   GENERAL CITY POLICIES
      
36.   PURCHASING: PROCUREMENT OF SUPPLIES, EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Governing body
   
30.02   City Council
   
30.03   Mayor
   
30.04   Administration through City Manager
   
30.05   Meetings
   
30.06   Special meetings
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01 GOVERNING BODY.
   GOVERNING BODY. That legislative body of elected officials composed of the
City Council and the Mayor who represents the people of the city.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 30.02 CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The governing body of the city shall be a six-member Council form of
government consisting of a Mayor and five Council members, which Council is
hereinafter referred to as the "City Council".
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The City Council is the legislative body of the city; shall
exercise the legislative powers and perform the legislative duties and
functions of the city; and may perform such other functions as may be
specifically provided or necessarily implied bylaw.
      (2)   The City Council shall establish general policy for the operation
of city government, pass ordinances and resolutions, appropriate funds and
approve budgets, set all mill levies or taxes, review city administration, and
perform any other duties which may be required of it by law or ordinance.
      (3)   The City Council may exercise any executive or administrative power
and perform or supervise the performance of any executive or administrative
duty or function that has not been given to the Mayor or the City Manager.
   (C)   Quorum. No action of the City Council shall be official or of any
effect except when a quorum of the Council members are present; provided, that
less than a quorum may adjourn a meeting. The number of Council members
necessary to constitute a quorum is three, excluding the Mayor.
   (D)   Mayor presides. The Mayor shall be the Chairperson and preside at the
meetings of the City Council.
   (E)   Mayor Pro Tempore.
      (1)   On an annual basis in the first City Council meeting in January,
the Mayor may select, through advice and consent of the City Council, a City
Council member to act as Mayor Pro Tempore throughout the year and to act any
time the Mayor is unable to act or refuses to act. The City Council shall vote
regarding consent on the Mayor's selection.
      (2)   In the absence of the Mayor or because of the Mayor's inability or
refusal to act or if the Mayor Pro Tempore, who was selected at the beginning
of the year, is unable to act or refuses to act, then the City Council may
elect a member of the City Council to preside over the meeting as Mayor Pro
Tempore.
      (3)   The election of any Mayor Pro Tempore shall be entered in the
minutes of the City Council meeting at which they are elected.
      (4)   The Mayor Pro Tempore shall preside at Council meetings and
perform, during the Mayor's absence, disability, or refusal to act, the duties
and functions of the Mayor.
      (5)   Any member of the City Council elected as Mayor Pro Tempore shall
still retain their power and authority as a member of the Council and shall be
entitled to vote as a member of the City Council on all matters.
   (F)   Duties and powers of City Council relative to City Manager. The duties
and powers of the City Council relative to the City Manager shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Appointment and removal of City Manager. The City Council shall
appoint and remove, with the participation and vote of the Mayor, the City
Manager by majority vote thereof. The City Council, with the participation of
the Mayor, may conduct annual performance evaluations of the City Manager.
      (2)   Policy. The City Council shall pass upon and determine all
questions of policy unless such policies relate to the administrative duties of
the City Manager as defined in this section, in which case the City Manager may
create policies as needed to perform his or her defined duties.
      (3)   Appointments. The City Council shall give advice and consent to the
appointment of all officers and the appointment of persons to city boards,
committees and commissions, as more particularly provided by law and in this
chapter.
      (4)   Administration. The City Council shall create new departments and
organize the city's administration.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 30.03 MAYOR.
   (A)   Mayor. The elected representative who is a member of the City Council
and who presides at the meetings of the City Council.
   (B)   Powers and duties - executive powers.
      (1)   Chief Executive. The Chief Executive Officer of the city shall be
the Mayor and represents the city in all of its external relationships, unless
otherwise delegated to the City Manager.
      (2)   Ceremonial activities. The Mayor shall attend and, if appropriate,
officiate at ceremonial activities of the city or other functions where
official representation is needed.
      (3)   Preside over meetings. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council. During the Mayor's temporary absence or disability, the City
Council shall elect a city Council member to act as Mayor Pro Tempore, who
during such absence or disability shall possess the power of the Mayor.
      (4)   Voting. The Mayor shall not vote as a voting member of the City
Council except in case of a tie, when he or she shall then give the deciding
vote. The Mayor shall vote as a voting member of the City Council when the City
Council is voting on whether to appoint or dismiss the City Manager; shall vote
on an ordinance that enlarges or restricts the Mayor's powers, duties, or
function; or as otherwise provided by law.
      (5)   Veto power. The Mayor shall have no power to veto any ordinance,
tax levy, appropriation, or act of the City Council.
      (6)   Power to suppress disorder, issue pardons, remit fines. The Mayor
may exercise within the city the powers conferred upon him or her to suppress
disorder and keep peace. The Mayor shall have authority to grant full pardons
for violations of this code or other ordinances of the city or to remit so much
of any fine or penalty as belongs to the city, together with the costs of
prosecution when to him or her it shall seem just, reasonable and a meritorious
cause. The Mayor shall report to the City Council at its next session the
number of fines remitted and pardons granted and the reasons therefor.
      (7)   Furnish information, recommendations. The Mayor shall from time to
time give the City Council information relative to the affairs of the city and
shall recommend for its consideration such measures as he or she may deem
expedient or any measure deemed to be in the best interest of the city.
      (8)   Call out inhabitants. The Mayor shall have power, when necessary,
to call upon every inhabitant of the city over the age of 21 to aid in
enforcing the laws of the state and ordinances of the city in suppressing riots
and other disorderly conduct.
      (9)   Signature upon required documents. The Mayor shall sign all
contracts (when directed by the City Council and when such authority has not
otherwise been granted to the City Manager), leases, bonds and other writings
on the part of the city authorized by the City Council, or required by law, or
any ordinance of this city.
      (10)   Appointment of committees. The Mayor shall appoint, with the
advice and consent of the City Council, all appointed officers of the city and
all committee members authorized by ordinance or resolution of the City
Council.
      (11)   Duties generally. The Mayor shall perform all duties which are or
may be prescribed by law or ordinance, unless otherwise delegated to the City
Manager.
      (12)   Authorize and grant permission to execute an Order of Abatement in
accordance with
Chapter 90 of the City Code.
   (C)   Duties and powers of the Mayor delegated to the City Manager. The
following duties and powers have been delegated to the City Manager by
ordinance, see §
31.21:
      (1)   City administration. The City Manager is the chief administrative
officer and shall be responsible to the City Council for the proper
administration of all administrative affairs of the city. All employees of the
city shall report to the City Manager.
      (2)   Inspection of books, records. The City Manager may at reasonable
time examine, and inspect the official books, papers, records or documents of
the city or any officer, employee, or agency of the city.
      (3)   Budget Officer. The City Manager shall act as the Budget Officer
for the city and shall perform, or cause to be performed, all of the duties of
such office as set forth in the State Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Utah
Cities, as set forth in UCA §§ 10-6-101, et seq. The City Manager shall also
ensure that all executive procedures and activities of the city are in
compliance with such Act.
      (4)   Purchasing and claims. The City Manager shall act as purchasing
agent for the city, and as such, shall implement and enforce all provisions of
the ordinances and policies of the city relating to purchasing.
      (5)   Finance Officer. Because the City Manager is the chief
administrative officer of the city and is responsible for the administration of
all day to day operations, including the routine service agreements, invoices,
and operations contemplated in the daily operation of the city and included in
the city's budget, the City Manager is the Finance Officer for the city.
      (6)   Executed, enforced, and observed. The City Manager shall faithfully
execute and enforce all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations,
and see that all franchises, leases, permits, contracts, licenses, and
privileges granted by the city are observed.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 1-4-2023; Ord. 23-2023, passed 11-1-2023)
§ 30.04 ADMINISTRATION THROUGH CITY MANAGER.
   Except for the purpose of inquiry, the City Council and its members,
including the Mayor, shall deal with the administration service solely through
the City Manager, and neither the City Council, nor any member thereof
including the Mayor, shall give orders to any subordinates of the City Manager,
either publicly or privately.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 30.05 MEETINGS.
   The City Council shall convene in regular meetings on the first and third
Wednesdays of each month, or at least one of such days, at 6:00 p.m. at the
offices of the city or such other place as the Council may determine.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 1-4-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Open and Public Meetings Act, see UCA §§ 52-4-101 to 52-4-305
§ 30.06 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   If, at any time, the business of the city requires a special meeting,
such meeting may be ordered by the Mayor or any two members of the Council.
   (B)   The order shall be entered in the minutes.
   (C)   It shall provide at least three hours' notice of the special meeting,
and notice thereof shall be served by the Recorder on each member who did not
sign the order by delivering the notice personally, electronically, or by
leaving it at the member's usual place of abode.
   (D)   The personal appearance by a member at any specially-called meeting
shall constitute a waiver of the notice above required.
   (E)   Adjourned meetings may be held from time to time as circumstances may
require.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any Council member violating the provisions of §
30.04 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall cease to be a Council member, in addition to any other penalty imposed by
the court.
(Ord. 02-2023, passed 1-4-2023)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Employee handbook
   
31.02   Financial reporting requirements for candidates for city offices
   
31.03   Primary election eliminated
   
31.04   Salary schedule for the compensation of elected and statutory officers
   
31.05   Work hours
City Manager
   
31.20   Scope
   
31.21   Duties
   
31.22   Terms of office
   
31.23   Office
   
31.24   Other employment
Recorder, Finance Director, and Treasurer
   
31.35   Appointment
   
31.36   Terms of office
 
   
31.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   The employee handbook for city employees, as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference.
(Ord. 12-2003, passed 10-15-2003; Ord. 16-2004, passed 6-16-2004)
§ 31.02 FINANCIAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR CANDIDATES FOR CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   Campaign financial disclosure in municipal elections. All candidates
for an elective city office shall comply with the following campaign disclosure
requirements as authorized, and required, by UCA § 10-3-208.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      CANDIDATE. Any person who files a declaration of candidacy for an
elective office of the city; or who received contributions or made
expenditures, or consents, to another person receiving contributions, or making
expenditures with a view to bringing about such person’s nomination or election
to such office; or causes, on his or her behalf, any written material or
advertisement to be printed, published, broadcast, distributed, or disseminated
which indicates an intention to seek such office.
      CONTRIBUTION. Monetary and nonmonetary contributions, such as in-kind
contributions and contributions of tangible things. CONTRIBUTION does not
include:
         (a)   Services provided without compensation by individuals
volunteering a portion or all of their time on behalf of the filing entity; or
         (b)   Money lent to the filing entity by a financial institution in
the ordinary course of business.
      ELECTION. Both primary and final elections.
      EXPENDITURE.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   Any disbursement from contributions, receipts, or from the
separate bank account required by state law to be established for candidates
for public office;
            2.   A purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance,
deposit, gift of money, or anything of value made for political purposes;
            3.   An express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or
agreement to make any purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance,
deposit, gift of money, or anything of value for political purposes;
            4.   Compensation paid by a corporation or filing entity for
personal services rendered by a person without charge to a reporting entity;
            5.   A transfer of funds between the filing entity and a
candidate’s personal campaign committee; or
            6.   Goods or services provided by the filing entity to, or for,
the benefit of another reporting entity for political purposes at less than
fair market value.
         (b)   EXPENDITURE does not include:
            1.   Services provided without compensation by individuals
volunteering a portion, or all, of their time on behalf of a reporting entity;
            2.   Money sent to a reporting entity by a financial institution in
the ordinary course of business; or
            3.   Anything listed in division (a) above that is given by a
corporation or reporting entity to each candidate for office, or officeholders
in states other than this state.
      FINANCIAL STATEMENT. Includes any summary report, interim report, or
other statement disclosing contributions, expenditures, receipts, donations, or
disbursements that is required by this section.
      PERSON. Both natural and legal persons, including individuals, business
organizations, personal campaign committees, party committees, political action
committees, political issues committees, labor unions, and labor organizations.
      REPORT. A verified financial statement.
      REPORTING ENTITY. A candidate, a candidate’s personal campaign committee,
an officeholder, a party committee, a political action committee, and a
political issues committee.
   (C)   Reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each candidate for city office who receives more than $750 in
campaign contributions or spends more than $750 on their campaign for city
office shall file financial reports that conform to the following:
         (a)   Report the candidate’s itemized and total campaign contributions
and expenditures at least once seven days before the municipal general
election, and at least once 30 days after the municipal general election;
         (b)   For each contribution of more than $50, the name of the donor of
the contribution and the amount of the contribution; and
         (c)   For each expenditure, the name of the recipient and the amount
of the expenditure.
      (2)   If a candidate fails to file an interim report due before the
municipal general election, the City Recorder shall, after making a reasonable
attempt to discover if the report was timely mailed, inform the appropriate
election officials, who:
         (a)   Shall, if practicable, remove the name of the candidate by
blacking out the candidate’s name before the ballots are delivered to voters;
         (b)   Shall, if removing the candidate’s name from the ballot is not
practicable, inform the voters by any practicable method that the candidate has
been disqualified and that votes cast for the candidate will not be counted;
and
         (c)   May not count any votes for that candidate.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a candidate is not disqualified if:
         (a)   The candidate files the reports required by this section;
         (b)   Those reports are completed, detailing accurately and completely
the information required by this section except for inadvertent omissions, or
insignificant errors or inaccuracies; and
         (c)   Those omissions, errors, or inaccuracies are corrected in an
amended report or in the next scheduled report.
      (4)   A report is considered filed if:
         (a)   It is received in the City Recorder’s office no later than 5:00
p.m. on the date that it is due;
         (b)   It is received in the City Recorder’s office with a postmark
three days or more before the date that the report was due; or
         (c)   The candidate has proof that the report was mailed, with
appropriate postage and addressing, three days before the report was due.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Any private party in interest may bring a civil action in district
court to enforce the provisions of this section or any ordinance adopted under
this section.
      (2)   In a civil action filed under division (D)(1) above, the court may
award costs and attorney’s fees to the prevailing party.
   (E)   Not applicable. These financial reporting requirements do not apply to
a candidate for municipal office who:
      (1)   Receives $750 or less in campaign contributions; and
      (2)   Spends $750 or less on the candidate’s campaign for the municipal
office.
   (F)   Unsuccessful primary election candidate. Candidates for an elective
municipal office who are eliminated at a primary election shall file a signed
campaign financial statement containing the information required herein not
later than 30 days after the primary election.
   (G)   Public information. The statements required by this section shall be
public documents, and shall be available for public inspection and copying
during all regular business hours.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.030) (Ord. 02-2004, passed 1-21-2004) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.03 PRIMARY ELECTION ELIMINATED.
   Pursuant to UCA § 20A-1-201.5, the candidates will be subject to a primary
election.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.040) (Ord. 1-94, passed 1-5-1994)
§ 31.04 SALARY SCHEDULE FOR THE COMPENSATION OF ELECTED AND STATUTORY OFFICERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of UCA § 10-3-818, as amended, the monthly
compensation schedule of, and for, certain elected, appointed, and statutory
officers of the city is as follows:
 
Position       Compensation
Council member $15,573.60
Mayor          $22,248
 
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall pay each elected and statutory officer,
except for the City Recorder, on the first City Council meeting of each month
by delivery of a check drawn on the municipal checking account to the officer
personally, by electronic transfer, or by mailing the check to the individual
at his or her home, postage prepaid.
      (2)   The City Recorder will be paid as set forth in the personnel
policy, §
31.01, on the tenth and the twenty-fifth of each month, or on the same pay
schedule as may, from time to time, be established for all other city employees
by the City Council.
   (C)   Each member of the governing body shall receive mileage and per diem
for all trips approved by the governing body according to schedules adopted by
the State Department of Finance and/or Internal Revenue Service.
(Prior Code, § 3.06.020) (Ord. 21-2020, passed 5-20-2020; Ord. 22-2024, passed
6-13-2024)
§ 31.05 WORK HOURS.
   (A)   The normal workday is ten hours. The normal workweek is 40 hours.
Employee work schedules will be made by each department in order to best meet
the needs of the city, but will, absent specific authorization to the contrary,
follow a four-day workweek and a ten-hour workday.
   (B)   City office hours will be 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. and 12:30 p.m. to 6:
00 p.m.
   (C)   Employees may take two rest breaks, not to exceed 15 minutes, during
the normal working hours.
   (D)   Depending on departmental procedures, either one-half hour or one hour
lunch breaks will be scheduled by individual department heads.
   (E)   Employees shall fill out time slips or punch a time clock as
documentation for all hours worked, and to verify, and request, vacation and
sick leave.
   (F)   An employee unable to report to duty on a workday shall notify the
department head within 15 minutes of the beginning of the scheduled workday
period.
(Ord. 06-2003, passed 6-5-2003)
CITY MANAGER
§ 31.20 SCOPE.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of UCA §§ 10-3b-303 et seq., the
office of City Manager has been created and established, and shall continue in
force and effect as an appointed office of the city.
   (B)   The City Council shall appoint a qualified person to act as City
Manager. Pursuant to UCA § 10-3b-302, the Mayor shall have the right to vote in
the appointment and termination of the City Manager.
   (C)   The City Manager shall, at all times, be under the control and
supervision of the City Council, and shall administer the day-to-day operations
of the city and its services according to the policies and programs established
by the City Council.
   (D)   The City Attorney, under the direction of the City Council, will
prepare an employment contract for the City Manager. The Mayor is authorized to
execute the agreement on behalf of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.010) (Ord. 18-2020, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 31.21 DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Manager shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of the city
to whom all employees shall report.
   (B)   The City Manager shall be responsible to the City Council for the
proper administration of all administrative affairs of the city. The City
Manager shall have the following powers and duties in addition to those
otherwise specifically set forth in this section or by law.
      (1)   City administration. The City Manager shall plan, direct, and
supervise the administration of all departments, offices, and agencies of the
city, and execute the laws and ordinances of the city, and shall:
         (a)   Notify the Mayor and City Council of any emergency existing in
any department under the City Manager’s supervision;
         (b)   Is authorized to execute routine service agreements contemplated
in the daily operation of the city and included in the city’s budget;
         (c)   Examine and inspect the books, records, and official papers of
any office, department, agency, board, or commission of the city and make
investigations, and require reports from, all personnel;
         (d)   May reorganize, consolidate, or combine offices or positions.
The City Manager may be the head of one or more departments;
         (e)   Faithfully execute and enforce all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules, and regulations, and see that all franchises, leases, permits,
contracts, licenses, and privileges granted by the municipality are observed;
and
         (f)   Designate an acting City Manager to serve in his or her absence,
or temporary incapacity, to exercise the powers and duties of the position.
      (2)   Personnel Director. The City Manager shall be the Personnel
Director, and as such shall be responsible for implementing and enforcing the
personnel policies and procedures of the city, and providing recommendations to
the City Council regarding the compensation plan for employees.
      (3)   Inventory property. The City Manager shall keep, or cause to be
kept, a current inventory showing all real and personal property of the city
and its location. The City Manager shall be responsible for the care and
custody of all such property, including equipment, buildings, parks, and all
other city property which is not by law assigned to some other officer or body
for care and control.
      (4)   Purchasing and claims. The City Manager shall act as purchasing
agent for the city, and as such, shall implement and enforce all provisions of
the ordinances and policies of the city relating to purchasing.
      (5)   Council meetings. The City Manager shall attend all meetings of the
City Council and may recommend to the City Council adoption of such measures as
the City Manager may deem necessary or expedient.
      (6)   Budget Officer. The City Manager shall act as the Budget Officer
for the city and shall perform, or cause to be performed, all of the duties of
such office as set forth in the State Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Utah
Cities, as set forth in UCA §§ 10-6-101 et seq. The City Manager shall also
ensure that all executive procedures and activities of the city are in
compliance with such Act.
      (7)   Review contracts. The City Manager shall review and make
recommendations to the City Council concerning all proposed contracts to which
the city may be a party, and shall see that the terms of any contract to which
the city is a party are fully performed by all parties thereto.
      (8)   Propose plans and programs. The City Manager shall propose plans
and programs concerning the development, operation, and needs of the city and
submit such plans to the City Council to be approved and developed as policy.
      (9)   Implement policy. The City Manager shall implement all policy
changes and directives of the Mayor and the City Council through regularly-
scheduled staff meetings.
      (10)   Management controls. The City Manager shall set performance
standards and exercise managerial control to ensure that the city government is
functioning in the most efficient and effective manner.
      (11)   Organization. The City Manager shall recommend the creation and
organization of all necessary departments, divisions, bureaus, and offices
necessary for the government of the city to the City Council for its approval
prior to implementation. Recommendations for offices and organizations include,
but are not limited to: Public Works Director, Community Development Director,
Parks and Recreation Director, Finance Director, Administrative Services
Director, Chief of Police, and Fire Chief.
      (12)   Records. The City Manager shall oversee the access and retention
of the books, records, and official papers of the city’s departments and
offices.
      (13)   Additional duties. The City Manager shall have such other powers,
and shall perform such other duties and obligations, as may be required of him
or her by state law or by ordinance, resolution, or policy of the City Council.
The City Manager shall also perform the duties set forth in the job description
for the position of City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.010.0100) (Ord. 18-2020, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 31.22 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The City Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council and
may be terminated at any time with or without cause.
   (B)   The City Manager position is an at-will position and is exempt from
the protections of UCA § 10-3-1105. As such, the City Manager may be terminated
with or without cause, and shall not be entitled to due process appeal
procedures as set forth in UCA § 10-3-1106.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.010.0200) (Ord. 18-2020, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 31.23 OFFICE.
   (A)   The City Manager shall maintain an office in City Hall and shall spend
such time in the performance of his or her duties as is necessary, or as may be
required from time to time, by the City Council, but not less than 40 hours per
week.
   (B)   The City Manager need not be a resident or qualified elector of the
city, but should maintain his or her residence within a reasonable driving
distance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.010.0300) (Ord. 18-2020, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 31.24 OTHER EMPLOYMENT.
   The City Manager shall not accept any outside employment in addition to
employment by the city without prior annual written approval of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.010.0400) (Ord. 18-2020, passed 5-20-2020)
RECORDER, FINANCE DIRECTOR, AND TREASURER
§ 31.35 APPOINTMENT.
   On, or before, the first Monday in February following a municipal election,
the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, shall appoint a
qualified person to the offices of City Treasurer, Finance Director, and City
Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.020) (Ord. 18-2020, passed 5-20-2020; Ord. 34-2024, passed
11-6-2024)
§ 31.36 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The terms of office of the City Recorder, Finance Director, and City
Treasurer shall be until the municipal election following their appointment,
unless they are removed sooner by the Mayor with the concurrence of a majority
of the members of the City Council. All other appointive officers shall serve
at will until a successor is appointed and qualified, or as otherwise set out
in this code.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.020.0100) (Ord. 18-2020, passed 5-20-2020; Ord. 34-2024,
passed 11-6-2024)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any candidate who fails to comply with §
31.02 is guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as
provided in UCA § 76-3-205.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.030) (Ord. 02-2004, passed 1-21-2004)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Tree Board
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Redevelopment Agency
   
32.04   Committees
   
32.05   Community Events Committee
   
32.06   City Beautification Committee
   
32.07   Historic Preservation Committee
   
32.08   Parks and Trails Committee
   
32.09   [Reserved]
   
32.10   [Reserved]
   
32.11   [Reserved]
   
32.12   [Reserved]
   
32.13   [Reserved]
   
32.14   [Reserved]
   
32.15   Arts Council
   
32.16   Youth Council
§ 32.01 TREE BOARD.
   (A) The City Parks and Recreation Committee will function in addition as the
Tree Board. The Tree Board will be noted as the “Tree Board” in this section.
Their additional function, duty, and authority as the Tree Board is limited by
this section.
   (B)   The Tree Board shall draft and recommend necessary amendments to the
tree ordinance.
   (C)   The Tree Board shall create, draft, and recommend the West Haven City
Tree Specifications Manual which will have guidelines for tree selection,
planting, and maintenance, and for removal of trees in the city public areas.
The Board will present the manual to the Mayor and City Council for approval by
resolution. The Tree Board will review the Tree Specifications Manual annually.
   (D)   The Board may assist the city as needed with fundraising, Arbor Day
celebrations, and educational programs and materials.
   (E)   The Board may also assist the city with preparing a community forestry
plan.
   (F)   The Board will keep the Council appraised of its activities.
(Prior Code, § 2.26.050)
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent of this section that a City Planning
Commission be provided, which will represent the concerns of diverse citizen
groups, as well as the broad interests of the community as a whole.
(Prior Code, § 5.01)
   (B)   Terms of office; rotation of terms.
      (1)   The members of the Planning Commission of the city shall each be
appointed for a four-year term of office by the Mayor, subject to advice and
consent by the City Council. The Mayor has the power to appoint members, with
the advice and consent of the City Council, under UCA §§ 10-3b-302 and 10-3b-
104. The Mayor has discretion as to how that process will proceed, and that
process may change however the Mayor sees fit under the state code. At the
first of each Mayor’s new term, whether incumbent or newly elected, the Mayor
shall formulate a written policy regarding how they will select a Planning
Commission member to present to the City Council for their advice and consent.
The Mayor shall present that policy to the City Council at the first meeting in
January of the start of their new term so that the City Council and public
shall be notified of the Mayor’s process. If the Mayor feels it is necessary to
change the process during his or her term because of a change in circumstances,
he or she will draft a new policy and present it to the City Council so that
the City Council and public shall be notified of the new policy before the
Mayor institutes it. The Mayor shall not utilize a new process without first
presenting that policy to the City Council.
      (2)   In order to ensure that the current membership of the Commission
continues in office, and that the rotation of members becomes effective, the
members and their successors shall each be appointed for a four-year term.
      (3)   No Planning Commission member shall serve more than two consecutive
terms on the Planning Commission until, and unless, there shall have elapsed an
intervening term of four years.
      (4)   Any member of the Planning Commission who shall fail to attend
three meetings in any 12-month period shall be deemed to have resigned his or
her position on the Planning Commission, and shall be replaced by a person to
be appointed by the Mayor subject to advice and consent by the City Council.
      (5)   The Mayor is authorized, in his or her sole discretion, to grant an
exception to this attendance policy for good cause shown; provided, further,
that in no case shall an exception under this part be granted which would
permit any member of the Planning Commission to absent himself or herself from
Planning Commission attendance more than five times in any 12-month period.
      (6)   If a Planning Commission member vacates their seat for any reason,
that member shall be replaced by a person to be appointed by the Mayor, subject
to the advice and consent of the City Council, for the remainder of the
departing member’s four-year term. The new member shall complete the term of
the departing member. If the previous member’s remaining time for their term
was less than half of the term, then the new member can be appointed for one
additional four-year term only. If the previous member’s remaining time for
their term was more than half of the term, then the new member can be appointed
for two additional four-year terms.
      (7)   A Planning Commission member may be removed by the Mayor for cause
for acting in his or her position with malfeasance or misfeasance, as defined
by the state code, after a hearing has been held by the City Council regarding
the allegations at issue.
(Prior Code, § 5.02)
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   There is hereby established a Planning Commission for the city.
      (2)   All prior acts of the Planning Commission, where such acts have
been performed absent this section, are ratified and confirmed as if those acts
had been performed under the authority of this section.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson from its members
to serve for a one-year term, beginning January of each year.
      (4)   The Planning Commission may adopt such policies and procedures for
the conduct of its meetings, the processing of applications, and for any other
purposes as the Commission may, from time to time, consider to be necessary for
the functioning of the Planning Commission.
      (5)   The policies and procedures adopted by the Commission must be
approved by the City Council before taking effect.
      (6)   Among its other duties, and in accordance with the Municipal Land
Use, Development, and Management Act, UCA §§ 10-9a et seq., the Planning
Commission shall:
         (a)   Prepare and recommend a general plan, and amendments to the
general plan, to the City Council as provided in this section;
         (b)   Recommend zoning ordinances and maps, and amendments to zoning
ordinances and maps, to the City Council as provided in this section;
         (c)   Administer provisions of the zoning ordinance, where
specifically provided for in the zoning ordinance adopted by the City Council;
         (d)   Recommend subdivision regulations and amendments to those
regulations to the City Council as provided in this section;
         (e)   Recommend approval or denial of subdivision applications as
provided in this section;
         (f)   Advise the City Council on matters as the City Council directs;
         (g)   Hear or decide any matters that the City Council designates,
including the approval or denial of, or recommendations to approve or deny,
conditional use permits; and
         (h)   Exercise any other powers:
            1.   That are necessary to enable it to perform its function; or
            2.   Delegated to it by the City Council.
      (7)   In accordance with UCA § 10-9a-403:
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Complete a proposed general plan, or amendments to the general
plan, for all or part of the area within the city, and then shall schedule and
hold a public hearing on the proposed plan or amendments to the plan;
            2.   Provide reasonable notice of the public hearing as specified
in UCA § 10-9a-204 at least ten calendar days before the date of the hearing;
and
            3.   After the public hearing, may change the proposed general
plan.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall then forward the proposed general
plan to the City Council;
         (c)   1.   The City Council may hold a public hearing on the proposed
general plan recommended to it by the Planning Commission; and
            2.   If the City Council decides to hold a public hearing, the City
Council shall provide reasonable notice of the public hearing at least ten
calendar days before the date of the hearing.
         (d)   After the public hearing, the City Council may modify the
proposed general plan as it considers appropriate;
         (e)   The City Council may, under UCA § 10-9a-404:
            1.   Adopt the proposed general plan without amendment;
            2.   Reject the proposed general plan; or
            3.   Amend the proposed general plan, and adopt or reject it as
amended.
         (f)   1.   The general plan is an advisory guide for land use
decisions; and
            2.   The City Council may adopt an ordinance mandating compliance
with the general plan.
      (8)   The City Council may amend the general plan by following the
procedures outlined in UCA §§ 10-9a-403 and 10-9a-404.
      (9)   In accordance with UCA §§ 10-9a-502 and 10-9a-503, the Planning
Commission shall:
         (a)   Prepare a proposed zoning ordinance, including both the full
text of the zoning ordinance and maps, that represents the Planning
Commission’s recommendations for zoning all, or any part of, the area within
the municipality, and then shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
proposed zoning or amendments to the zoning ordinance;
         (b)   Shall provide reasonable notice of the public hearing as
specified in UCA § 10-9a-205 at least ten calendar days before the date of the
hearing;
         (c)   After the public hearing, may change the proposed zoning
ordinance; and
         (d)   The Planning Commission shall then forward the proposed zoning
ordinance to the City Council.
            1.   The City Council may hold a public hearing on the proposed
zoning ordinance recommended to it by the Planning Commission.
            2.   If held, the City Council shall provide reasonable notice of
the public hearing at least ten calendar days before the date of the hearing.
      (10)   If the city mails notice of a proposed zoning change to property
owners within the city within a specified distance of the property on which the
zoning change is being proposed, it shall also mail equivalent notice to
property owners of an adjacent municipality within the same distance of the
property on which the zoning change is being proposed.
      (11)   In accordance with UCA § 10-9a-502, after the public hearing, the
City Council may:
         (a)   Adopt the zoning ordinance as proposed;
         (b)   Reject the zoning ordinance as proposed; or
         (c)   Amend the zoning ordinance, and adopt or reject the zoning
ordinance as amended.
      (12)   In accordance with UCA § 10-9a-505, the City Council may:
         (a)   1.   Divide the territory over which it has jurisdiction into
zoning districts of a number, shape, and area it considers appropriate to carry
out the purposes of this section; and
            2.   Within those zoning districts, regulate and restrict the
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, or use of buildings
and structures, and the use of land.
         (b)   The City Council shall ensure that the regulations are uniform
for each class or kind of building throughout each district, but the
regulations in one district may differ from those in other districts.
      (13)   In accordance with UCA § 10-9a-507, “Conditional Uses,” a zoning
ordinance:
         (a)   May contain provisions for conditional uses that may be allowed,
allowed with conditions, or denied in designated zoning districts, based on
compliance with standards and criteria set forth in the zoning ordinance for
those uses; and
         (b)   The Hearing Officer has jurisdiction to decide appeals of the
approval or denial of conditional use permits.
      (14)   In accordance with UCA § 10-9a-511, except as provided in this
section:
         (a)   1.   A nonconforming use or structure may be continued;
            2.   A nonconforming use may be extended through the same building;
provided no structural alteration of the building is proposed, or made, for the
purpose of the extension; and
            3.   For purposes of this section, adding a solar energy device to
a building is not a structural alteration.
         (b)   The City Council may provide in any zoning ordinance or
amendment for:
            1.   The establishment, restoration, reconstruction, extension,
alteration, expansion, or substitution of nonconforming uses upon the terms set
forth in the zoning ordinance;
            2.   The termination of all nonconforming uses, except billboards,
by providing a formula establishing a reasonable time period during which the
owner can recover or amortize his or her investment in the nonconforming use,
if any; and
            3.   The termination of a billboard that is a nonconforming use by
acquiring the billboard and associated property rights through gift, purchase,
agreement, exchange, or eminent domain.
         (c)   If a municipality prevents a billboard company from maintaining,
repairing, or restoring a billboard structure damaged by casualty, act of God,
or vandalism, the municipality’s actions may constitute initiation of
acquisition by eminent domain under UCA § 10-9a-513;
         (d)   Under UCA § 10-9a-513, the City Council may remove a billboard
without providing compensation if, after providing the owner with reasonable
notice of proceedings and an opportunity for a hearing, the City Council finds
that:
            1.   The applicant for a permit intentionally made a false or
misleading statement in his or her application;
            2.   The billboard is unsafe;
            3.   The billboard is in an unreasonable state of repair; or
            4.   The billboard has been abandoned for at least 12 months.
         (e)   A municipality may terminate the nonconforming status of school
district property when the property ceases to be used for school district
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5.04)
   (D)   Public hearings for zoning-related matters.
      (1)   Any references in the city’s zoning ordinance to the contrary,
notwithstanding upon the effective date of this section, the city’s Planning
Commission, rather than the city’s governing body, will hold all zoning-related
public hearings.
      (2)   All references currently contained in the zoning ordinance
requiring the city’s governing body to hold such public hearings shall now be
amended to read that such hearings shall be held exclusively by the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 5.06)
(Ord. 26-2020, passed 7-1-2020; Ord. 47-2020, passed 12-16-2020)
§ 32.03 REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   This section is repealed and reserved.
§ 32.04 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Purpose and procedure.
      (1)   Intent and purpose. It is the intent and purpose of this section to
encourage citizen involvement and obtain citizen advice and input.
         (a)   Citizens are encouraged to share their opinions and expertise by
joining any of the
committees.
         (b)   Any committee Chair may invite interested individuals to share
their experience and advice with the committee.
         (c)   Any and all committees established pursuant to this chapter have
no authority to bind the city or impose any conditions on the city or its
citizens and are not vested with the authority to make decisions regarding the
public's business.
      (2)   City staff support. The City Manager shall provide each committee
with such administrative staff support and materials, as he or she deems
necessary to assist in carrying out the duties and responsibilities of each
committee.
      (3)   Limit of membership.
         (a)   Membership, subject to the appointment process set forth herein,
on the committee shall be limited to the city residents or qualified
individuals who have demonstrated an interest in promoting the welfare of the
city, including those individuals who live outside of city limits.
         (b)   An appointment to a committee shall be vacated if a member
misses more than four meetings without reason.
         (c)   If a member's term is vacated, that member may reapply at a
future date; however, the opening on the committee may or may not still be
available.
      (4)   Terms. Unless otherwise noted in this chapter, the term of
committee members shall be three years, with a maximum of three consecutive
terms. Appointments of membership will be staggered to provide continuity of
membership.
      (5)   Meetings. The committees shall set their own meeting schedule but
shall meet at least quarterly. Committee meetings shall be open to the public.
      (6)   Quorum. The attendance of a majority of members of each committee
shall constitute a quorum. All official acts of a committee shall be by the
majority vote of those then present.
      (7)   Compensation. Members of committees shall serve without
compensation.
      (8)   Budget. Each committee shall prepare an annual budget for city
events and submit such to the City Manager for review and approval by the City
Council. The committee Chair or designee shall make an annual presentation to
the City Council of its goals, budget and activities.
   (B)   Formation and function of committees.
      (1)   Application for membership.
         (a)   The applicants for committee membership are required to fill out
a volunteer application form.
         (b)   The Mayor will review the application and may interview the
applicant.
         (c)   The Mayor selects the best applicant for the interest of the
city, then recommends the applicant to the City Council for appointment to the
committee.
         (d)   Some committees have membership capacity limits as outlined in
the specific section for the committees in this chapter.
         (e)   If an applicant's committee of choice is full, that applicant
will be asked to consider appointment to a different committee and/or asked if
the applicant would like to keep their application on file in the case that a
spot opens on the committee of choice.
      (2)   Officers.
         (a)   A Chair and Vice Chair shall be appointed and removed by the
Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council.
         (b)   The Chair and Vice Chair shall serve a one-year term. If at the
end of the one-year term, beginning in the month of January and ending on the
last day of December the same year, the committee members vote to continue with
the same Chair and Vice Chair, those individuals may be reappointed by the
Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council.
         (c)   The duties of the Chair and Vice-Chair are as follows:
            1.   Duties of the Chair. The Chair's responsibility is to notify
members of committee meetings, report to the City Council, conduct meetings,
and enforce policies.
            2.   Duties of Vice-Chair. The Vice Chair will supervise voting and
conduct when the Chair is not available.
      (3)   Removal of members. Committee members may be removed by the City
Council at any time without cause. In the case of removals or vacancies for
other causes, such vacancy shall be filled through appointment by the Mayor,
with the advice and consent of the City Council.
      (4)   City Council liaison. Committees shall have a City Council member
serve as an advisor/liaison that acts as a non-voting member of the committee.
Assignment of such advisor/liaison shall be made by the Mayor.
      (5)   All committees shall act in an advisory role to the City Manager or
their designee, in any matters pertaining to the city.
      (6)   It shall ultimately be the responsibility of the City Manager or
their designee to manage, operate, and oversee the city events and committee
activities; however, all committees may perform various tasks and duties under
the direction or authorized by the City Manager or their designee.
(Ord. 01-2023, passed 1-4-2023; Ord. 14-2024, passed 5-15-2024; Ord. 20-2024,
passed 6-5-2024)
§ 32.05 COMMUNITY EVENTS COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created an ongoing committee known as the
Community Events Committee.
   (B)   Members. The Community Events Committee shall consist of at least nine
members but no more than 13 members, and all members are appointed and governed
consistent with §
32.04(A)(3) of this chapter.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities. The Community Events Committee shall
study and provide objective, current, and relevant information about the
quantity and quality of existing or potential community and cultural event
opportunities to the City Manager, and as directed by the City Council.
      (1)   The Community Events Committee shall act in an advisory role to the
City Manager or their designee in any matters pertaining to the city events.
      (2)   It shall ultimately be the responsibility of the City Manager or
their designee to manage, operate, and oversee the city events; however, the
Committee may perform various tasks and duties under the direction or
authorized by the City Manager or their designee.
      (3)   The Committee may solicit, on behalf of the city, gifts, revenues,
bequests, or endowments of money and/or property as donations and/or grants
from persons, firms, or corporations, subject to the guidance, approval, and
acceptance by the City Manager.
      (4)   The Committee shall not have the power to obligate the city for
funds and/or expenditures or incur any debt on behalf of the city.
         (a)   The Committee is not empowered to commit city funds for capital
improvements for special events, to issue bonds of indebtedness, or to dispose
of city property.
         (b)   Where the Committee believes that capital improvements are
necessary, it will submit a report and recommendation to the City Manager for
approval of such.
         (c)   After receiving a recommendation from the City Manager, the City
Council shall make a decision regarding any capital improvements and funding
thereof.
      (5)   (a)   All powers and duties prescribed and delegated herein are
delegated to the Committee as a unit and all action hereunder shall be of the
Committee acting as a whole.
         (b)   No action of any individual Committee member is authorized,
except through the approval of the City Manager or their designee.
   (D)   City staff support. A special events coordinator shall serve as
dedicated staff support for the Community Events Committee. They will provide
administrative, grant, and sponsorship coordination and other services as
required.
(Ord. 01-2023, passed 1-4-2023; Ord. 14-2024, passed 5-15-2024; Ord. 20-2024,
passed 6-5-2024)
§ 32.06 CITY BEAUTIFICATION COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created an ongoing committee known as the
City Beautification Committee.
   (B)   Members. The City Beautification Committee has a limit of nine
members, and all members are appointed and governed consistent with §
32.04(A)(3) of this chapter.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   The Committee's duties shall be to advise, evaluate, and recommend
to the City Council and the City Manager on projects designed to maintain and
improve the appearance of public areas within the city.
      (2)   The Committee will also endeavor to recognize the efforts of
residents and businesses within the city who have demonstrated exceptional
efforts to improve the beauty of the city, as well as other areas of concern
hereafter identified by the Mayor, the City Council, or the Committee.
      (3)   The Committee will be responsible for the following:
         (a)   Organize and promote the annual Day of Service;
         (b)   Organize and promote the semi-annual community clean up days;
and
         (c)   Make recommendations for beautification projects to be carried
out during the spring and summer months.
(Ord. 01-2023, passed 1-4-2023; Ord. 14-2024, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 32.07 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created an ongoing committee known as the
Historic Preservation Committee.
   (B)   Members. The Historic Preservation Committee has no limit on the
number of members, and all members are appointed and governed consistent with §
32.04(A)(3) of this chapter.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities. The Historic Preservation Committee shall
consist of members with a demonstrated interest, competence, or knowledge in
historic preservation. The Historic Preservation Committee shall perform duties
as to preserve and foster an appreciation in the history of the city, and as
directed by the City Council:
      (1)   To make recommendations to the City Council concerning the
designation of historic areas, districts, landmark sites, and buildings of
historic significance; and
      (2)   To make recommendations to the City Council on matters pertaining
to historic resources and preservation efforts.
(Ord. 01-2023, passed 1-4-2023; Ord. 14-2024, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 32.08 PARKS AND TRAILS COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created an ongoing committee known as the
Parks and Trails Committee.
   (B)   Members. The Parks and Trails Committee has no limit on the number of
members, and all members are appointed and governed consistent with §
32.04(A)(3) of this chapter. The City's Parks Director shall be an ex officio
member of the Parks and Trails Committee.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities. The Parks and Trails Committee shall
study and provide objective, current, and relevant information about the
quantity and quality of existing or potential park and trail opportunities to
the City Council and the City Manager, and as directed shall:
      (1)   Assist in improving the quantity and quality of the park and trail
experience for residents and visitors to the city.
      (2)   Assist in providing an optimum range, mix, and location of park and
trail opportunities for all people.
      (3)   Assist in relating park and trail plans to other types of planning
and the general plan.
      (4)   Conduct research and evaluate the effectiveness of existing
facilities.
      (5)   Encourage public and private cooperation to provide diversified
park and trail opportunities in the city.
      (6)   Review and report the status of existing and proposed park and
trail facilities encouraging innovation in planning, design, funding, and
maintenance support.
      (7)   Perform such other duties and functions as are consistent with the
promotion of park and trail activities and facilities in the city as directed
by the City Council and the City Manager.
(Ord. 01-2023, passed 1-4-2023; Ord. 14-2024, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 32.09 [RESERVED.]
§ 32.10 [RESERVED.]
§ 32.11 [RESERVED.]
§ 32.12 [RESERVED.]
§ 32.13 [RESERVED.]
§ 32.14 [RESERVED.]
§ 32.15 ARTS COUNCIL.
   (A)   Creation.
      (1)   The city is authorized to create an ongoing committee known as the
Arts Council. The Arts Council shall have no authority to bind the city or
impose any condition on the city or its citizens.
   (B)   Members.
      (1)   Members. The Arts Council has a limit of 13 members.
      (2)   Appointment.
         (a)   Members of the Arts Council shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the advice and consent of the City Council.
         (b)   A City Council member shall serve as a liaison that acts as a
non-voting member of the committee. Assignment of such liaison shall be made by
the Mayor.
      (3)   Terms.
         (a)   The term of committee members shall be two years.
         (b)   There is no limit on how many terms a member can serve.
         (c)   Appointments of membership will be staggered to provide
continuity of membership.
      (4)   Limit of membership.
         (a)   Membership, subject to the appointment process set forth herein,
on the committee shall be limited to city residents or qualified individuals
who have demonstrated an interest in promoting the welfare of the city,
including those individuals who live outside of city limits.
         (b)   An appointment to a committee shall expire if a member misses
more than four meetings without reason.
         (c)   If a member's term expires, that member may reapply at a future
date; however, the opening on the committee may or may not still be available.
      (5)   Meetings. The committees shall set their own meeting schedule but
shall meet at least quarterly. Arts Council meetings shall be open to the
public.
      (6)   Quorum. The attendance of a majority of members of the Arts Council
shall constitute a quorum. All official acts of the Arts Council shall be by
the majority vote of those then present.
      (7)   Compensation. Members of committees shall serve without
compensation.
      (8)   Removal of members. Members of the Arts Council may be removed by
the City Council at any time without cause. In the case of removals or
vacancies for other causes, such vacancy shall be filled by the appointment
process previously set forth herein.
   (C)   Officers.
      (1)   The officers of the Arts Council shall be Chair, Vice Chair, and
Secretary/Treasurer.
      (2)   Officers shall be elected by members of the Arts Council in the
November preceding the term of office.
      (3)   Officers must be a member of the Arts Council.
      (4)   Terms of office shall expire on the first Monday in January of each
applicable year.
      (5)   Duties of the Chair. The Chair's responsibility is to notify
members of Arts Council meetings, report to the City Council, conduct meetings,
and enforce policies.
      (6)   Duties of Vice-Chair. The Vice Chair will supervise voting and
conduct when the Chair is not available.
      (7)   Duties of Secretary/Treasurer. The Secretary/Treasurer will keep
minutes of full Council meetings and oversee the budget and expenditures.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities. The Arts Council is an ongoing committee.
The Arts Council shall:
      (1)   Provide opportunities for citizen participation in artistic
endeavor and performance;
      (2)   Enhance and develop cultural identity and heritage through active
involvement in the
arts;
      (3)   Seek out and arrange engagement and education with arts
professionals; and
      (4)   Encourage collaboration and connection with any and all
participants in the arts.
   (E)   Staff support. The City Manager may assign such personnel, as deemed
necessary, to assist the Arts Council and to attend its meetings.
   (F)   Budget. The Arts Council may prepare and submit a budget appropriation
to the City Manager who shall review, modify, and recommend approval to the
City Council.
(Ord. 01-2023, passed 1-4-2023; Ord. 14-2024, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 32.16 YOUTH COUNCIL.
   (A)   Creation and purpose.
      (1)   There is hereby created a City Youth Council. The City Youth
Council is created as an advisory body to the city with the following purposes:
         (a)   To promote and provide an opportunity for the youth of the city
to acquire a greater knowledge of, and appreciation for, the political system
of local government through activities, services, and participation in local
government.
         (b)   To obtain information and assistance from city youth regarding
planning and implementation of social, educational, cultural, and recreational
activities for youth in the city.
         (c)   To, as an organization and body, with the consent of the City
Council, plan and implement activities of service to the community of the city,
as well as accept and act upon proposals to do acts of community service.
      (2)   The City Youth Council shall report to and be responsible to the
City Council.
      (3)   The City Youth Council shall meet monthly in a regular Youth City
Council meeting, holding additional work sessions when necessary.
      (4)   The City Youth Council shall not have authority to bind the city or
impose any condition on the city or its citizens.
   (B)   Structure of officers. The City Youth Council shall consist of a
minimum of four members to include, but not be limited to, a Youth Mayor, a
Youth Assistant Mayor, a Youth City Secretary, and a Youth City Treasurer.
   (C)   Selection and appointment.
      (1)   The positions of Youth Council Mayor, Youth Assistant Mayor, Youth
City Secretary, and Youth City Treasurer shall be determined by the election
process.
      (2)   The general election shall occur annually during the first regular
City Youth Council meeting in August.
      (3)   Voters may have only one ballot and may vote only one at a time.
      (4)   Votes will be counted immediately, and the results will be
announced by the outgoing Youth Council Mayor or his or her designated
representative that same meeting.
      (5)   The newly elected positions will be sworn in by the City Mayor
during a regular City Council meeting and take office during the first regular
City Youth Council meeting, to be held in September of each year.
      (6)   Members of the City Youth Council are required to be residents of
the city or qualified individuals who have demonstrated an interest in
promoting the welfare of the city, including those individuals who live outside
of city limits. Non-residents may be considered under the advice of the Mayor
and City Council.
   (D)   Term, removal and vacancy.
      (1)   Subject to the sections of this chapter and excepting appointment
by reason of vacancy due to removal or resignation, the term of appointment for
a member of the City Youth Council shall be one year, beginning in September of
the year he or she is elected.
      (2)   A member of the City Youth Council may be removed with advice and
consent of the City Council for, among other things, excessive, unexcused
absences/not maintaining an attendance record of 80%.
      (3)   Any vacancy occurring on the City Youth Council, either by removal
or by resignation, shall be filled by the City Youth Council coordinator. The
new member filling the vacancy shall have a term to end at the same time as the
current City Youth Council members.
   (E)   Officers. Officers of the City Youth Council shall consist as follows:
      (1)   Youth Mayor. Shall be elected annually by the members of the City
Youth Council. The Youth Mayor shall be a high school senior or junior and will
serve as the Youth Mayor from September to August.
      (2)   Youth Assistant Mayor. Shall be elected annually by the members of
the City Youth Council. The Youth Assistant Mayor will serve as Youth Mayor in
his or her absence and share in all other leadership duties of the Youth Mayor.
      (3)   Youth City Secretary. Shall be elected annually by the members of
the City Youth Council. They shall serve as the Secretary and are responsible
for recording all proceedings of the City Youth Council meetings.
      (4)   Youth City Treasurer. Shall be elected annually by the members of
the City Youth Council. The Youth Council Treasurer is responsible for
maintaining a current spreadsheet of Youth Council funds to be reported on at
monthly City Youth Council meetings.
      (5)   Other officers. Other officers deemed necessary by the Youth Mayor,
Youth Assistant Mayor, Youth City Secretary, and Youth City Treasurer shall be
appointed annually by the unanimous consent of the City Youth Council and shall
function as directed.
      (6)   City Youth Council Advisor. City Youth Council Advisor shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, for a
term of three years. The Youth Council Advisor can be appointed by the Mayor
for consecutive terms, with the advice and consent of the City Council. The
City Youth Council Advisor shall provide the City Youth Council with such
administrative staff support and advisors as he or she deems necessary to
assist the City Youth Council in carrying out its duties and responsibilities.
      (7)   City Council Liaison. A City Council Member shall serve as a
liaison to the City Youth Council and attend meetings of the City Youth Council
and provide leadership and support to the program.
   (F)   Operations. As allowed by this section and other applicable law, and
with the prior approval of the City Council, the City Youth Council may:
      (1)   Take opportunities to acquire a greater knowledge of, and
appreciation for, the political system of local government, through completion
of planned projects, and active participation in local government.
      (2)   Inform city government officials regarding planning and
implementing of social, educational, cultural, and recreational activities for
youth.
(Ord. 01-2023, passed 1-4-2023; Ord. 14-2024, passed 5-15-2024; Ord. 37-2024,
passed 11-20-2024)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
Fees and Schedules
   
33.001   Public works and code enforcement fee schedule
   
33.002   Parks and recreation fees
   
33.003   SWPPP fees; subdivision review; inspection
   
33.004   Business license fees
   
33.005   Stormwater utility fees
   
33.006   Discovery fee schedule
   
33.007   Building Department fees and fines
Impact Fees
   
33.020   Fee service area established
   
33.021   Transportation impact fee
   
33.022   Parks and recreation impact fee
   
33.023   Payment of impact fees
   
33.024   Fee schedule
   
33.025   Adjustment of standard impact fee
   
33.026   Impact fee credits
   
33.027   Installation of fire hydrants impact fee
Sales and Use Tax
   
33.055   Purpose and intent
   
33.056   Sales and use tax
   
33.057   Annual license
   
33.058   State exceptions
Municipal Energy Tax
   
33.070   Purpose and intent
   
33.071   Definitions
   
33.072   Municipal energy sales and use tax
   
33.073   Exemptions for municipal energy sales and use tax provisions
   
33.074   No effect upon existing franchises; credit for franchise fees
   
33.075   Tax collection contract with the State Tax Commission
   
33.076   Incorporation of state code; including amendments
   
33.077   No additional license to collect of municipal energy sales and use tax
required; no additional license or reporting requirements
Transient Room Tax
   
33.090   Purpose
   
33.091   Definitions
   
33.092   Transient room tax
   
33.093   Gross receipts
   
33.094   Exemptions
   
33.095   Payments
Telecommunications Tax
   
33.110   Definitions
   
33.111   Levy of tax
   
33.112   Rate
   
33.113   Rate limitation and exemption therefrom
   
33.114   Collection of tax
 
   
33.999   Penalty
FEES AND SCHEDULES
§ 33.001 PUBLIC WORKS AND CODE ENFORCEMENT FEE SCHEDULE.
   The Public Works and Code Enforcement Fee Schedule is hereby made a part of
the West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule. The West Haven City Consolidated
Fee Schedule is hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 4.16.020) (Ord. 06-2011, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 26-2023, passed
1-3-2024)
§ 33.002 PARKS AND RECREATION FEES.
   The Parks and Recreation Fees are hereby made a part of the West Haven City
Consolidated Fee Schedule. The West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule is
hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 4.16.030) (Ord. 06-2018, passed 5-2-2018; Ord. 26-2023, passed
1-3-2024)
§ 33.003 SWPPP FEES; SUBDIVISION REVIEW; INSPECTION.
   The SWPPP Fees, Subdivision Review Fees, and Inspection Fees are hereby made
a part of the West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule. The West Haven City
Consolidated Fee Schedule is hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 4.16.050) (Ord. 05-2019, passed 2-6-2019; Ord. 26-2023, passed
1-3-2024)
§ 33.004 BUSINESS LICENSE FEES.
   The Business License Fees are hereby made a part of the West Haven City
Consolidated Fee Schedule. The West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule is
hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.060) (Ord. 50-2020, passed 12-16-2020; Ord. 26-2023, passed
1-3-2024)
§ 33.005 STORMWATER UTILITY FEES.
   (A)   The Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. (Pub. Law No. 92-
500), requires that all communities within certain metropolitan areas have a
stormwater management plan.
   (B)   The city has prepared and adopted a stormwater management plan, which
includes annual operation and management costs, anticipated revenue, and
utility fees, among other items.
   (C)   The current stormwater management plan is hereby adopted by reference.
§ 33.006 DISCOVERY FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The City Attorney is authorized to charge reasonable fees for
providing and making available discovery materials to non-indigent defendants
in the prosecution of criminal cases as follows:
      (1)   The Discovery Fees are hereby made a part of the West Haven City
Consolidated Fee Schedule. The West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule is
hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   These fees are hereby confirmed and adopted and shall be effective as
of January 1, 2023.
   (C)   Any future amendments to these fees shall be done by resolution.
   (D)   The foregoing Recitals are fully incorporated herein.
(Ord. 34-2022, passed 12-7-2022; Ord. 26-2023, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 33.007 BUILDING DEPARTMENT FEES/FINES.
   (A)   In addition to the building permit fee and valuation schedule
described in §
151.15, there are additional Building Department fees and fines that are hereby
made a part of the West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule. The West Haven
City Consolidated Fee Schedule is hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   Reinspection fees shall be charged when any given inspection has
failed twice, and the applicant shall be charged the reinspection fee on each
subsequent inspection beginning with the third inspection until the inspection
has passed. If an inspection is deemed not ready by the Building Inspector for
obvious incomplete items, the applicant shall be charged on each subsequent
inspection beginning with the second inspection and continuing up until the
inspection has passed.
   (C)   The civil fine for occupying a structure prior to the issuance of the
certificate of occupancy shall be calculated beginning on the date that the
violation is discovered and continuing up until the time that the violation has
been abated by the occupier vacating the structure or the certificate of
occupancy is issued. Temporary occupancy is not allowed. This fine is hereby
made a part of the West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule. The West Haven
City Consolidated Fee Schedule is hereby adopted by reference.
      (1)   It shall be an infraction for any person to occupy a structure
prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, punishable as outlined in
§
10.99.
      (2)   A violation of this section shall be deemed a continuing violation,
meaning a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which the violation occurs or continues to occur.
(Ord. 14-2023, passed 6-7-2023; Ord. 26-2023, passed 1-3-2024; Ord. 24-2024,
passed 8-7-2024)
IMPACT FEES
§ 33.020 FEE SERVICE AREA ESTABLISHED.
   The transportation impact service area will be all future development within
the city’s boundaries. The regional parks and recreational service area will be
all future development within the city’s boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 13.02.010) (Ord. 34-2019, passed 10-16-2019; Ord. 09-2022,
passed 5-18-2022)
§ 33.021 TRANSPORTATION IMPACT FEE.
   (A)   Transportation impact fees. Based on, and in consideration of, the
above-listed findings in §
33.020 of the City Council, the data contained in the city’s general plan, and
impact fee analysis (Exhibit A), the City Council finds that there should be,
and there is hereby enacted, the following transportation impact fees, the
applicability of which to the categories indicated is hereby confirmed, for the
above-established transportation impact service area in §
33.020, said fees having been determined to comport as required with applicable
law and the findings of the impact fee analysis.
   (B)   Impact fee assessment to new development.
      (1)   Residential.
Proposed Land Use - Residential (per unit) Calculated Impact Fee
Proposed Land Use - Residential (per unit) Calculated Impact Fee
Apartment (multi-family low rise unit)     $1,649.32
Apartment (multi-family mid-rise unit)     $1,225.72
Assisted living (beds)                     $585.82
Hotel (rooms)                              $1,883.65
Senior adult housing; detached (unit)      $962.10
Senior adult housing; attached (occ. unit) $775.09
Single-family (unit)                       $2,126.99
 
      (2)   Non-residential.
Proposed Land Use - Non-residential (per 1,000 square Calculated Impact Fee
feet)
Proposed Land Use - Non-residential (per 1,000 square Calculated Impact Fee
feet)
Automobile care center                                $506.96
Church                                                $1,565.95
Clinic                                                $8,598.08
Convenience market with gas pumps                     $52,037.75
Day care center                                       $10,729.57
Department store                                      $5,155.24
Discount club                                         $5,933.48
Drive-in bank                                         $14,649.97
Elementary school                                     $4,398.18
Fast food with drive thru                             $53,056.40
Freestanding discount store                           $11,423.55
General office                                        $2,194.58               
Hardware/paint store                                  $1,523.95
High school                                           $3,170.20
High turnover/sit-down restaurant                     $14,407.32
Home improvement superstore                           $4,017.21
Industrial park                                       $759.32
Light industrial                                      $1,117.57
Medical dental office                                 $7,841.01
Middle/junior high school                             $4,544.63
Mini warehouse                                        $340.23
New car sales                                         $6,097.06
Nursing homes                                         $1,496.10
Pharmacy/drugstore with drive thru                    $12,543.73
Shopping center/general commercial                    $5,613.76
Supermarket                                           $15,397.95
Tire store                                            $6,426.03
Quality restaurant                                    $10,578.70
 
   (C)   Exemptions. The City Manager or designee may grant an exemption or
elimination for the payment of impact fees for newly constructed moderate
income housing units and accessory dwelling units.
(Prior Code, § 13.02.020) (Ord. 34-2019, passed 10-16-2019; Ord. 09-2022,
passed 5-18-2022; Ord. 11-2024, passed 5-1-2024; Ord. 12-2024, passed 5-1-2024)
§ 33.022 PARKS AND RECREATION IMPACT FEE.
   (A)   Based on, and in consideration of, the above-listed findings of the
City Council, the data contained in the city’s general plan and impact fee
analysis (Exhibit A), the City Council finds that there should be, and there is
hereby enacted, the following regional parks and recreation impact fees, the
applicability of which to the categories indicated is hereby confirmed, for the
above-established regional parks and recreation impact service area, said fees
having been determined to comport as required with applicable law and the
findings of the impact fee analysis.
 
Impact Fee Assessment to New Development
Proposed Land Use        Calculated Impact Fee
Multi-family (per unit)  $1,795.55
Single-family (per unit) $2,143.75
 
   (B)   Exemptions. The City Manager or designee may grant an exemption or
elimination for the payment of impact fees for newly constructed moderate
income housing units and accessory dwelling units.
(Prior Code, § 13.02.030) (Ord. 34-2019, passed 10-16-2019; Ord. 09-2022,
passed 5-18-2022; Ord. 11-2024, passed 5-1-2024; Ord. 12-2024, passed 5-1-2024)
§ 33.023 PAYMENT OF IMPACT FEES.
   (A)   As a condition of final approval of a subdivision plat or site plan,
or as a condition for the issuance of a building permit for private,
commercial, industrial, or public use development, the owner, developer, or
builder shall pay impact fees, which amounts have been set by ordinance by the
City Council.
   (B)   Exemptions. The City Manager or designee may grant an exemption or
elimination for the payment of impact fees for newly constructed moderate
income housing units and accessory dwelling units.
(Ord. 8-93, passed 9-1-1993; Ord. 09-2022, passed 5-18-2022; Ord. 02-2024,
passed 1-17-2024; Ord. 11-2024, passed 5-1-2024; Ord. 12-2024, passed 5-1-2024)
§ 33.024 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The schedule of fees previously set out in the city’s fee schedule is
reaffirmed. Where existing fees differ from any fees established in this
subchapter, the former are hereby repealed to the extent of that difference,
and the fees adopted herein are now placed in the fee schedule in their stead.
Where fees established in this subchapter are not listed in the city’s fee
schedule, the fees adopted herein are now placed in the consolidated fee
schedule, and the same are hereby adopted as part of the official fee schedule
for the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.02.040) (Ord. 34-2019, passed 10-16-2019; Ord. 09-2022,
passed 5-18-2022)
§ 33.025 ADJUSTMENT OF STANDARD IMPACT FEE.
   (A)   The City Council may adjust the standard impact fee at the time the
fee is charged to respond to:
      (1)   Unusual circumstances in specific cases; or
      (2)   A request for a prompt and individualized impact fee review for the
development activity of the state, a school district, or a charter school, and
an offset or credit for a public facility for which an impact fee has been, or
will be, collected, and to ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly.
   (B)   The City Council may also adjust the calculation of the amount of an
impact to be imposed on a particular development based upon studies and data
submitted by the developer.
   (C)   Exemptions. The City Manager or designee may grant an exemption or
elimination for the payment of impact fees for newly constructed moderate
income housing units and accessory dwelling units.
(Prior Code, § 13.02.050) (Ord. 34-2019, passed 10-16-2019; Ord. 09-2022,
passed 5-18-2022; Ord. 11-2024, passed 5-1-2024; Ord. 12-2024, passed 5-1-2024)
§ 33.026 IMPACT FEE CREDITS.
   (A)   The City Council shall ensure that a developer, including a school
district or a charter school, shall receive a credit against, or proportionate
reimbursement of, an impact fee if the developer:
      (1)   Dedicates land for a system improvement;
      (2)   Builds or dedicates some, or all, of a system improvement; or
      (3)   Dedicates a public facility that the local political subdivision or
private entity, and the developer, agree will reduce the need for a system
improvement.
   (B)   The City Council shall give a credit against impact fees for any
dedication of land for, improvement to, or new construction of any system
improvements provided by the developer if the facilities:
      (1)   Are system improvements; or
      (2)   Are dedicated to the public and offsets the need for an identified
system improvement.
   (C)   Exemptions. The City Manager or designee may grant an exemption or
elimination for the payment of impact fees for newly constructed moderate
income housing units and accessory dwelling units.
(Prior Code, § 13.02.060) (Ord. 34-2019, passed 10-16-2019; Ord. 09-2022,
passed 5-18-2022; Ord. 11-2024, passed 5-1-2024; Ord. 12-2024, passed 5-1-2024)
§ 33.027 INSTALLATION OF FIRE HYDRANTS IMPACT FEE.
   (A)   All applicants for building permits for main uses in areas covered by
public culinary water systems in the city shall pay to the city a development
impact fee at the time of application for a building permit for the purpose of
installation of fire hydrants in areas considered deficient by the city’s Fire
Chief, or by the individual rendering that service to the city.
   (B)   The fees so collected shall be deposited in a reserve fund established
for each service area, and out of which fire hydrants will be purchased within
the appropriate service area.
   (C)   A priority plan for each water system area shall be developed and
maintained by, or for, the city.
   (D)   When the city determined that sufficient funds exist, it shall
purchase, and cause to be installed, the appropriate fire hydrants.
   (E)   The fee shall be $1.50 per front foot of property devoted to the main
use, but in no case less than the minimum width of a lot required by zoning for
the applied use.
   (F)   The fee shall not be collected for those lots in approved subdivisions
where the city has required the installation of hydrants as a condition of
approval, nor for commercial or industrial developments.
(Prior Code, § 13.02.070) (Ord. 18-92, passed 12-2-1992; Ord. 09-2022, passed
5-18-2022)
SALES AND USE TAX
§ 33.055 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known as the “Sales and Use Tax Ordinance of
West Haven, Utah,” the state legislature having authorized municipalities of
the state to enact sales and use tax ordinances imposing a 1% tax.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to conform the collection and
distribution of the tax of the municipality to the requirements of the Sales
and Use Tax Act, UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, as currently amended.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.010) (Ord. 3-91, passed 7-17-1991)
§ 33.056 SALES AND USE TAX.
   (A)   (1)   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, there is
levied, and there shall be collected and paid, a tax upon every retail sale of
tangible personal property, services, and deals made within the municipality at
the rate of 1%.
      (2)   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other
consumption in this municipality of tangible personal property from any
retailer on, or after, the operative date of this subchapter at the rate of 1%
of the sales price of the property.
      (3)   For the purpose of this subchapter, all retail sales shall be
presumed to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the
retailer, or his or her agent, to an out-of-state destination. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business, the place, or places, at which the
retail sales are consummated shall be as determined under the rules and
regulations prescribed by, and adopted by, the State Tax Commission. Public
utilities, as defined by UCA Title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the
place, or places, within any county or municipality where public utilities
services are rendered, but the place of sale or the sales tax revenue arising
from such service allocable to the city shall be as determined by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to an appropriate formula, and other rules and regulations
to be prescribed and adopted by it.
   (B)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax Act, all of the
provisions of UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, as amended, as in force and effect on
the effective date of this subchapter, insofar as they relate to sales taxes,
excepting UCA § 59-12-1802 thereof, are hereby adopted and made a part of the
chapter as though fully set forth herein.
      (2)   Wherever, and to the extent that in UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, the
state is named, or referred to, as the taxing agency, the name of this
municipality shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this division (B) shall
be deemed “state” when that word is used as part of the title of the State Tax
Commission, or of the Constitution of the State, nor shall the name of the
municipality be substituted for that of the state in any section when the
result of that substitution would require action to be taken by, or against,
the municipality or any agency thereof, rather than by, or against, the State
Tax Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration, or
operation, of the subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.020) (Ord. 3-91, passed 7-17-1991) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.057 ANNUAL LICENSE.
   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under UCA § 59-12-106, an
additional license shall not be required by reason of this section.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.030) (Ord. 3-91, passed 7-17-1991) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.058 STATE EXCEPTIONS.
   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid, or changed, by which
the tax is measured:
   (A)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer; and/or
   (B)   The gross receipts from the sales of, or the costs of, storage, use,
or other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use
tax has become due by reason of the sales transaction to any other municipality
and any county in the state under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by the
county or municipality, in accordance with the Sales and Use Tax Act, being UCA
Title 59, Ch. 12.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.040) (Ord. 3-91, passed 7-17-1991) Penalty, see §
33.999
MUNICIPAL ENERGY TAX
§ 33.070 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The City Council finds that:
   (A)   The energy industry has previously been highly regulated and
monopolistic;
   (B)   The city has historically raised general fund revenues by collecting
franchise and business license revenues from the energy industry;
   (C)   Substantial restructuring of the energy industry has created an
opportunity for increased competition within the energy industry;
   (D)   The restructuring of the energy industry has diminished the
effectiveness and fairness of the revenues collected by the city;
   (E)   To provide for a stable revenue source for the city and to create a
more competitive environment for the energy industry, it is necessary to
establish, and enact, taxing strategies and methodologies for the city that
accomplish those goals; and
   (F)   This subchapter does not alter or affect the city’s authority to grant
or regulate franchises, or to control municipal streets, highways, or other
property.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.010) (Ord. 14-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 33.071 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The State Tax Commission.
   CONSUMER. A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject
to the municipal energy sales and use tax adopted herein.
   CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE.
      (1)   A fee:
         (a)   Provided for in a franchise agreement; and
         (b)   That is consideration for the franchise agreement.
      (2)   (a)   A fee similar to division (1)(a) above; or
         (b)   Any combination of divisions (1)(a) and (1)(b) above.
   DELIVERED VALUE. The fair market value of the taxable energy delivered for
sale or use in the municipality, and includes:
      (1)   (a)   The value of the energy itself; and
         (b)   Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges, service
charges, or other costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in
usable form to each class of customer in the municipality.
      (2)   DELIVERED VALUE does not include the amount of a tax paid under:
         (a)   UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1, Tax Collection; or
         (b)   UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 2, the Local Sales and Use Tax
Act.
   ENERGY SUPPLIER. A person supplying taxable energy, except that the
Commission may by rule be excluded from this definition, or a person supplying
a de minimis amount of taxable energy.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. A franchise or an ordinance, contract, or agreement
granting a franchise.
   FRANCHISE TAX.
      (1)   A franchise tax;
      (2)   A tax similar to a franchise tax; or
      (3)   Any combination of divisions (1) and (2) above.
   PERSON. As defined in UCA § 59-12-102(90).
   SALE. Any transfer of title, exchange, or barter, conditional or otherwise,
in any manner, of taxable energy for a consideration. It includes:
      (1)   Installment and credit sales;
      (2)   Any closed transaction constituting a sale; and
      (3)   Any transaction under which the right to acquire, use, or consume
taxable energy is granted under a lease or contract, and the transfer would be
taxable if an outright sale were made.
   STORAGE. Any keeping or retention of taxable energy in the city for any
purpose except sale in the regular course of business.
   TAXABLE ENERGY. Gas and electricity.
   USE. The exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to the
ownership or the leasing of the sale energy. USE does not include the sale,
display, demonstration, or trial of the taxable energy in the regular course of
business and held for resale.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.020) (Ord. 14-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 33.072 MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this subchapter
and the requirements of UCA §§ 10-1-301 et seq., a tax on every sale or use of
taxable energy within the city equaling 6% of the value of the taxable energy
delivered to the consumer. This tax shall be known as the municipal energy
sales and use tax.
   (B)   This tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the taxable
energy to the consumer.
   (C)   This tax shall be in addition to any local option sales and use tax
imposed by the city, as provided in UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 2, the Local
Sales and Use Tax Act.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.030) (Ord. 14-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 33.073 EXEMPTIONS FOR MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No exemptions are granted from the municipal energy sales and use tax
except as may be expressly provided in UCA § 10-1-305(2)(b); notwithstanding an
exemption granted by UCA § 59-12-104.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the above, the following are exempt from the municipal
energy sales and use tax by virtue of the provisions of UCA § 10-1-305(2)(b):
      (1)   The sales and use of aviation fuel, motor fuel, or special fuel
subject to taxation under UCA Title 59, Chapter 13, Motor and Special Fuel Tax
Act;
      (2)   The sale and use of taxable energy that is exempt from taxation
under federal law or the Constitution of the United States, or the State
Constitution;
      (3)   The sale and use of taxable energy purchased or stored in the state
for resale;
      (4)   The sale or use of taxable energy to a person if the primary use of
the taxable energy is for use in compounding or producing taxable energy, or a
fuel subject to taxation under UCA Title 59, Chapter 13, Motor and Special Fuel
Tax Act;
      (5)   Taxable energy brought into the state by a non-resident for the
non-resident’s own personal use or enjoyment while within the state, except for
taxable energy purchased for use in the state by a non-resident living or
working in the state at the time of purchase;
      (6)   The sale or use of taxable energy for any purpose other than use as
a fuel or energy; and
      (7)   The sale of taxable energy for use outside of the boundaries of the
city.
   (C)   The sale, storage, use, or other consumption of taxable energy is
exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax levied by this subchapter;
provided:
      (1)   The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a
municipal energy sales or use tax levied by another municipality within the
state, as authorized by UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 3; and
      (2)   The city is paid the difference between the tax paid to the other
municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under this subchapter, if
the tax due under this subchapter exceeds the tax paid to the other
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.040) (Ord. 14-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 33.074 NO EFFECT UPON EXISTING FRANCHISES; CREDIT FOR FRANCHISE FEES.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not alter any existing franchise agreements
between the city and energy providers.
   (B)   There shall be a credit against the tax due to the city from any
consumer under this subchapter in the amount of the contractual franchise fee
paid if:
      (1)   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to the city
pursuant to a franchise agreement that was in effect prior to, or on, July 1,
1997;
      (2)   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately-itemized charge; and
      (3)   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.050) (Ord. 14-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 33.075 TAX COLLECTION CONTRACT WITH THE STATE TAX COMMISSION.
   (A)   On, or before, the effective date of this subchapter, the city shall
contract with the State Tax Commission to perform all functions incident to the
administration and collection of the municipal energy sales and use tax, as
provided in this subchapter. This contract may be a supplement to the existing
contract with the Commission to administer and collect the local sales and use
tax as provided in applicable to city ordinances. The Mayor is authorized to
enter into supplementary agreements with the State Tax Commission that may be
necessary to the continued administration and operation of the municipal energy
sales and use tax ordinance enacted herein.
   (B)   An energy supplier shall pay the municipal energy sales and use tax
revenues collected from consumers directly to the city monthly if:
      (1)   The city is the energy supplier; or
      (2)   (a)   The energy supplier estimates that the municipal energy sales
and use tax collected annually from its state consumers equals $1,000,000 or
more.
         (b)   The energy supplier collects the municipal energy sales and use
tax.
   (C)   An energy supplier paying the municipal energy sales and use tax, as
levied under this subchapter, directly to the city may deduct any contractual
franchise fees collected by the energy supplier qualifying as a credit, and
remit the net tax less than any amount the energy supplier retains, as
authorized by UCA § 10-1-307(4).
(Prior Code, § 4.04.060) (Ord. 14-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 33.076 INCORPORATION OF STATE CODE; INCLUDING AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Except as herein provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of UCA Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 3, Municipal Energy Sales
and Use Tax Act, as well as this subchapter, all of the provisions of UCA Title
59, Chapter 12, as amended, and in force and effect on the effective date of
this subchapter, insofar as they relate to sales and use taxes, excepting UCA §
59-12-1802 thereof and excepting for the amount of the sales and use taxes
levied therein, are hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter as if
fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Wherever, and to the extent that in UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1,
as amended, the state is named or referred to as the “taxing agency,” the name
of the city shall be substituted, insofar as is necessary for the purposes of
that part, as well as UCA Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 3, as amended. Nothing in
this division (B) shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the
city for the word “state” when that word is used as part of the title of the
State Tax Commission, or of the Constitution of the State, nor shall the name
of the city be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result
of such a substitution would require action to be taken by, or against, the
city, or any agency thereof, rather than by, or against, the State Tax
Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Any amendments made to UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1, as amended,
which would be applicable to the city for the purposes of this subchapter are
hereby incorporated herein by reference, and shall be effective upon the date
that they are effective as a state statute.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.070) (Ord. 14-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 33.077 NO ADDITIONAL LICENSE TO COLLECTION OF MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE
TAX REQUIRED; NO ADDITIONAL LICENSE OR REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   No additional license to collect or report the municipal energy sales and
use tax levied by this subchapter is required; provided the energy supplier
collecting the tax has a license issued under UCA § 59-12-106.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.080) (Ord. 14-98, passed 5-20-1998)
TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
§ 33.090 PURPOSE.
   The state legislature has authorized municipalities to enact a transient
room tax that may be collected from persons and entities providing public
accommodations in the city. It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for
the uniform assessment and collection of that tax pursuant to UCA Title 59,
Chapter 12, Part 3A, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 4.10.010) (Ord. 03-2009, passed 2-18-2009)
§ 33.091 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS. A place providing temporary sleeping accommodations
that are regularly rented to the public, and includes:
      (1)   A motel;
      (2)   A hotel;
      (3)   A motor court;
      (4)   An inn;
      (5)   A bed and breakfast establishment;
      (6)   A condominium; and
      (7)   A resort home.
   RENTS.
      (1)   Rents; and
      (2)   Timeshare fees and dues.
   TRANSIENT. The occupation of a public accommodation, by a person, of less
than 30 consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 4.10.030) (Ord. 03-2009, passed 2-18-2009)
§ 33.092 TRANSIENT ROOM TAX.
   There is hereby levied upon the business of every person, company,
corporation, or other like, and similar persons, groups, or organizations,
doing business in the city as motor courts, motels, hotels, inns, or the like,
and similar public accommodations, an annual license tax equal to 1% of the
gross revenue derived from the rent for each and every occupancy of a suite,
room, or rooms, for a period of less than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 4.10.040) (Ord. 03-2009, passed 2-18-2009)
§ 33.093 GROSS RECEIPTS.
   For purposes of this section, gross receipts shall be computed upon the base
room rental rate. There shall be excluded from the gross revenue, by which this
tax is measured:
   (A)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state, or by any
other governmental agency upon a retailer or consumer;
   (B)   The amount of any transient room tax levied under authority of Title
17, Chapter 31, as amended, or its successor;
   (C)   Receipts from the sale or service charge for any food, beverage, or
room service charges in conjunction with the occupancy of the suite, room, or
rooms, not included in the base room rate; and
   (D)   Charges made for supplying telephone service, gas, or electrical
energy service, not included in the base room rate.
(Prior Code, § 4.10.050) (Ord. 03-2009, passed 2-18-2009)
§ 33.094 EXEMPTIONS.
   No transient room tax shall be imposed under this subchapter upon any
person:
   (A)   Engaged in business for solely religious, charitable, eleemosynary, or
other types of strictly nonprofit purpose who is tax exempt in such activities
under the laws of the United Sates and the state; or
   (B)   Engaged in a business specifically exempted from municipal taxation
and fees by the laws of the United States or the state.
(Prior Code, § 4.10.060) (Ord. 03-2009, passed 2-18-2009)
§ 33.095 PAYMENTS.
   On, or before, the effective date of this subchapter, the city shall
contract with the State Tax Commission to perform all functions incident to the
administration and collection of the municipal transient room tax, in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. The Mayor is hereby
authorized to enter into agreements with the State Tax Commission that may be
necessary to the continued administration and operation of the transient room
tax enacted by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.10.070) (Ord. 03-2009, passed 2-18-2009)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
§ 33.110 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The State Tax Commission.
   CUSTOMER.
      (1)   For purposes of this subchapter, CUSTOMER means:
         (a)   The person who is obligated under a contract with a
telecommunications provider to pay for telecommunications service received
under the contract; or
         (b)   If the end user is not the person described in this section, the
end user of telecommunications service.
      (2)   CUSTOMER does not include a reseller:
         (a)   Of telecommunications service; or
         (b)   For mobile telecommunications service of a serving carrier under
an agreement to serve the customer outside the telecommunications provider’s
licensed service area.
   END USER. The person who uses a telecommunications service. For purposes of
telecommunications service provided to a person who is not an individual, END
USER means the individual who uses the telecommunications service on behalf of
the person who is provided the telecommunications service.
   GROSS RECEIPTS ATTRIBUTED TO THE MUNICIPALITY. Gross receipts from a
transaction for telecommunications services that is located within the
municipality for the purposes of sales and use taxes under UCA Title 59,
Chapter 12, Sales and Use Tax Act and determined in accordance with UCA § 59-
12-215.
   GROSS RECEIPTS FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The revenue that a
telecommunications provider receives for telecommunications service rendered,
except for amounts collected or paid as:
      (1)   A tax, fee, or charge:
         (a)   Imposed by a governmental entity;
         (b)   Separately identified as a tax, fee, or charge in the
transaction with the customer for the telecommunications service; and
         (c)   Imposed only on a telecommunications provider.
      (2)   Sales and use taxes collected by the telecommunications provider
from a customer under UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Sales and Use Tax Act; or
      (3)   Interest, a fee, or a charge that is charged by a
telecommunications provider on a customer for failure to pay for
telecommunications service when payment is due.
   MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. As defined in the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act, 4 U.S.C. § 124.
   MUNICIPALITY. The city.
   PLACE OF PRIMARY USE.
      (1)   For telecommunications service other than mobile telecommunications
service, means the street, address representative of where the customer’s use
of the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which shall be:
         (a)   The residential street address of the customer; or
         (b)   The primary business .street address of the customer.
      (2)   For mobile telecommunications service, is as defined in the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act, 4 U.S.C. § 124.
   SERVICE ADDRESS.
      (1)   If the location described in this subchapter is known, the location
of the telecommunications equipment:
         (a)   To which a call is charged; and
         (b)   From which the call originates or terminates.
      (2)   If the location described in division (1) above is not known, but
the location described in division (2) for the definition of PLACE OF PRIMARY
USE is known, the location of the origination point of the signal of the
telecommunications service first identified by:
         (a)   The telecommunications system of the telecommunications
provider; or
         (b)   If the system used to transport the signal is not a system of
the telecommunications provider, information received by the telecommunications
provider from its service provider.
      (3)   If the locations described in this section are not known, the
location of a customer’s place of primary use.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. 
      (1)   A person that:
         (a)   Owns, controls, operates, or manages a telecommunications
service; or
         (b)   Engages in an activity described in this section for the shared
use with, or resale to, any person of the telecommunications service.
      (2)   A person described in this section is a TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER
whether or not the Public Service Commission of the state regulates:
         (a)   That person; or
         (b)   The telecommunications service that the person owns, controls,
operates, or manages.
      (3)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER does not include an aggregator, as
defined in UCA § 54-8b-2.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.
      (1)   Telecommunications service, as defined in UCA § 59-12-134, other
than mobile telecommunications service, that originates and terminates within
the boundaries of the state.
      (2)   Mobile telecommunications service, as defined in UCA § 59-12-102:
         (a)   That originates and terminates within the boundaries of one
state; and
         (b)   Only to the extent permitted by the Mobile Telecommunications
Sourcing Act, 4 U.S.C. §§ 116 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 4.12.010) (Ord. 12-2004, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.111 LEVY OF TAX.
   There is hereby levied a municipal telecommunications license tax on the
gross receipts from telecommunications service attributed to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 4.12.020) (Ord. 12-2004, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.112 RATE.
   (A)   The rate of the tax levy shall be 4% of the telecommunications
provider’s gross receipts from telecommunications service that are attributed
to the municipality.
   (B)   If the location of a transaction is determined to be other than the
municipality, then the rate imposed on the gross receipts for
telecommunications services shall be the lower of:
      (1)   The rate imposed by the taxing jurisdiction in which the
transaction is located; or
      (2)   The rate for non-mobile telecommunications services shall be the
rate imposed by the municipality in which the customer’s service address is
located; or for mobile telecommunications service, the rate imposed by the
municipality of the customer’s primary place of use.
(Prior Code, § 4.12.030) (Ord. 12-2004, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.113 RATE LIMITATION AND EXEMPTION THEREFROM.
   The rate of this levy shall not exceed 4% of the telecommunications
provider’s gross receipts from telecommunications service attributed to the
municipality, unless a higher rate is approved by a majority vote of the voters
in this municipality that vote in:
   (A)   A municipal general election;
   (B)   A regular general election; or
   (C)   A local special election.
(Prior Code, § 4.12.040) (Ord. 12-2004, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.114 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   On, or before, the effective date of this subchapter, the municipality shall
enter into the uniform interlocal agreement with the Commission, as described
in UCA § 10-1-405, for the collection, enforcement, and administration of this
municipal telecommunications license tax.
(Prior Code, § 4.12.060) (Ord. 12-2004, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
33.055 through
33.058 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not less than $300 or imprisonment
for a period of not more than six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.050)
(Ord. 3-91, passed 7-17-1991)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY OPERATION PLAN
Section
   
34.01   Introduction
   
34.02   References
   
34.03   Definitions
   
34.04   Administration and logistics
   
34.05   City response
   
34.06   Emergency operation center (EOC)
   
34.07   Activation of EOC
   
34.08   Continuity of government
   
34.09   Purchasing; guidelines
   
34.10   Operational concept
   
34.11   Incident management
   
34.12   Incident priorities
   
34.13   Incident objectives
   
34.14   Documentation
   
34.15   Levels of emergency
§ 34.01 INTRODUCTION.
   This chapter is designed to assist city officials and staff prior to, and
during times of, emergencies and disasters. Each section contains major
activities that may need to be organized and/or accomplished depending upon the
size and type of emergency or disaster. The activation of this plan and the
numbers of responders needed to assist in the emergency operations center (EOC)
and/or in the field will depend on the type and size of the emergency or
disaster. Additionally, this plan is designed to be modular so that it can be
activated in full, or in part, depending on the situation. Each elected
official, employee, and designated volunteer should familiarize himself or
herself with the requirements and complexities of his or her respective role,
with specific focus on what will be required of him or her before, during, and
after an emergency or disaster. Other assignments of an ad hoc nature, which
are not outlined in this chapter, may be assigned as circumstances require.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.010) (Ord. 40-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 34.02 REFERENCES.
   In the event of an emergency or disaster, the city will coordinate its
relief and emergency assistance efforts with the following protocols:
   (A)   The County Emergency Operations Plan;
   (B)   The County Hazmat Plan;
   (C)   The County Joint Information Center/Joint Information System Plan;
   (D)   The County Animal Response Team Plan;
   (E)   The County Disaster Medical Incident Response Plan;
   (F)   The County Sheriff ARES Communication Team Plan;
   (G)   The County School Emergency Plan;
   (H)   The Northern Utah Mutual Aid Agreement; and
   (I)   The State Emergency Operations Plan.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.020) (Ord. 40-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 34.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS CENTER (EOC). The physical location at which the
coordination of information and resources to support incident management (on-
scene operations) activities normally take place.
   INCIDENT COMMAND SYSTEM (ICS). A standardized, on-scene, all-hazards
incident management approach that allows for the integration of facilities,
equipment, personnel, procedures, and communications operating within a common
organizational structure; and
      (1)   Enables a coordinated response among various jurisdictions and
functional agencies, both public and private; and
      (2)   Establishes common processes for planning and managing resources.
   INCIDENT COMMANDER (IC). The individual responsible for all incident
activities, including the development of strategies and tactics, and the
ordering and release of resources. The INCIDENT COMMANDER has overall authority
and responsibility for conducting incident operations and is responsible for
the management of all incident operations at the incident site.
   INCIDENT OBJECTIVE. A brief, clear statement of guidance and direction
needed to select appropriate strategy(s) and the tactical direction of
resources. INCIDENT OBJECTIVES are based on realistic expectations of what can
be accomplished when all allocated resources have been effectively deployed.
   MANAGEMENT BY OBJECTIVES (MBO). A systematic and organized approach that
allows management to focus on achievable goals and to attain the best possible
results from available resources.
   NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS). A uniform set of processes and
procedures that emergency responders at all levels of government will use to
conduct response operations. NIMS enables responders to work together more
effectively and efficiently to manage an incident no matter what the cause,
size, or complexity.
   STRATEGIES. Establish the general plan or direction for accomplishing the
incident objectives.
   UNIFIED COMMAND (UC). A structure that brings together the incident
commanders of all major organizations involved in the incident in order to
coordinate an effective response, while at the same time carry out their own
jurisdictional responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.190) (Ord. 40-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 34.04 ADMINISTRATION AND LOGISTICS.
   (A)   (1)   During a disaster response, some administrative policies and
procedures may need to be suspended, relaxed, or made optional.
      (2)   The City Council and/or Mayor will determine alteration of policies
and procedures.
   (B)   (1)   Carefully consider the consequences.
      (2)   Suspensions of administrative policies and procedures should be
limited, and of the shortest duration practical under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.030) (Ord. 40-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 34.05 CITY RESPONSE.
   The city responds to emergencies in accordance with the National Incident
Management System (NIMS), which includes principles of the incident command
system (ICS) and unified command system (UCS).
(Prior Code, § 8.12.040) (Ord. 40-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 34.06 EMERGENCY OPERATION CENTER (EOC).
   (A)   The emergency operation center (EOC) is the designated location where
the Mayor, Emergency Manager, City Council, department heads, and others meet
to provide overall direction and support to emergency responders in the field,
coordinate and manage resources and activities, disseminate information, and
provide support to the community during an emergency.
   (B)   The city’s EOC locations are as follows:
      (1)   Primary location: City Hall, 4150 S 3900 W, West Haven, Utah; and
      (2)   Secondary location: West Haven Maintenance Building, 2825 W 3300 S,
West Haven, Utah.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.050) (Ord. 40-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 34.07 ACTIVATION OF EOC.
   (A)   The EOC is activated by the Mayor. If the Mayor is unavailable, the
EOC is activated by any city official or department head following the
“continuity of government” line of succession. (See §
34.08.)
   (B)   EOC activation should be strongly considered when requested by the
Emergency Manager, Incident Commander, public safety, or Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.060) (Ord. 40-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 34.08 CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT.
   The line of succession for the city’s continuity of government is as
follows:
   (A)   Mayor;
   (B)   Mayor Pro-Tem; and
   (C)   Any person, employee, or elected official designated by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.070) (Ord. 40-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 34.09 PURCHASING; GUIDELINES.
   Emergency purchasing. In the event of an emergency, all purchasing shall
follow the process outlined in Chapter 36: Purchasing: Procurement of Supplies,
Equipment, and Services regarding emergency purchasing.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 34.10 OPERATIONAL CONCEPT.
   (A)   The city will use a simple emergency level response system to:
      (1)   Help clarify the impact of the emergency on the city;
      (2)   Alert city officials of the need to make a disaster declaration;
and
      (3)   Alert city officials of the need for EOC activation.
   (B)   When an unexpected incident occurs that requires a response to protect
life or property, the on-scene commander will notify the Mayor to discuss:
      (1)   Impact of the event on the city and its resources;
      (2)   Situation status (what has happened, what is happening, and what
may happen);
      (3)   Resource status (resources on-scene, resources en-route, and
resources needed); and
      (4)   Need for declaration of emergency level.
   (C)   The Mayor makes the disaster declaration and determines the emergency
level as appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.110) (Ord. 40-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 34.11 INCIDENT MANAGEMENT.
   All incidents are to be managed by objective (MBO). Set priorities and
objectives that will accomplish goals that will attain the best possible
results from available resources.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.120) (Ord. 40-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 34.12 INCIDENT PRIORITIES.
   The incident priorities are as follows:
   (A)   Life safety;
   (B)   Incident stabilization; and
   (C)   Protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.130) (Ord. 40-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 34.13 INCIDENT OBJECTIVES.
   Provide clear instructions by writing SMART objectives that are:
   (A)   Specific;
   (B)   Measurable;
   (C)   Action oriented;
   (D)   Realistic; and
   (E)   Time sensitive.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.140) (Ord. 40-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 34.14 DOCUMENTATION.
   All responders (employees, contractors, volunteers, and the like) must keep
good records. Documentation is required for all activities, decisions,
communications, significant events, money spent, resources used, information
received, hours spent responding, and any other important information
associated with the emergency response.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.150) (Ord. 40-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 34.15 LEVELS OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Level 1 Emergency.
      (1)   Definition of a Level 1 Emergency. A LEVEL 1 EMERGENCY is any
unexpected occurrence that can be met with available city resources.
      (2)   Responsibility. The primary decision making responsibility rests
with the department that would normally respond to the situation in
collaboration with the Mayor. The responsible department is in charge of making
decisions and coordinating response and recovery activities.
      (3)   Actions. The responsible department shall set up an on-site command
post as appropriate. No disaster declaration is made. The EOC is not activated.
      (4)   Notifications. Mayor and others, as appropriate, to include: City
Council, Emergency Manager, department heads, the County Sheriff’s Office,
Community Resource Officer, the County Fire Department, the County Emergency
Manager, and the like.
      (5)   Press relations. Press relations will be handled by the Mayor,
Emergency Manager, or assigned public information officer (PIO).
      (6)   Location. Personnel will contact the city for information.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.160)
   (B)   Level 2 Emergency.
      (1)   Definition of a Level 2 Emergency. A LEVEL 2 EMERGENCY is any
unexpected occurrence that cannot be met with available city resources.
      (2)   Responsibility. The primary decision making responsibility rests
with the Mayor in collaboration with the Emergency Manager. The nature of the
emergency will require a cooperative effort between the Mayor, Emergency
Manager, City Council, department heads, and outside agencies that respond to,
and on behalf of, the city.
      (3)   Actions. A disaster declaration is made by the Mayor. Setup of an
on-site command post is optional. EOC activation is optional.
      (4)   Notifications. The Mayor, Emergency Manager, and others, as
appropriate, to include: City Council, Emergency Manager, department heads, the
County Sheriff’s office, Community Resource Officer, the County Fire
Department, the County Emergency Manager, and the like.
      (5)   Press relations. Press relations will be handled by the Mayor,
Emergency Manager, or assigned public information officer (PIO).
      (6)   Location. Personnel will contact the city for information.
      (7)   Large-scale evacuation. If a large-scale evacuation (15 plus homes)
is required for an extended period of time, the emergency level is
automatically changed from a Level 2 to Level 3, and the city’s EOC must be
activated.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.170)
   (C)   Level 3 Emergency.
      (1)   Definition of a Level 3 Emergency. A LEVEL 3 EMERGENCY is any
unexpected occurrence that overwhelms the city’s response capabilities and
resources. A LEVEL 3 EMERGENCY requires additional resources far beyond a
“normal” response pattern. Such emergencies require a cooperative effort and a
commitment of personnel, equipment, and/or resources from other agencies. The
event is of such magnitude or duration that trying to deal with the emergency
unilaterally will overwhelm or upset the normal working routine of the city’s
responding departments or agencies.
      (2)   Responsibility. The primary decision making responsibility rests
with the Mayor acting through the EOC. The nature of the emergency will require
a cooperative effort between the Mayor, City Council, Emergency Manager,
department heads, and outside agencies that respond to, and on behalf of, the
city.
      (3)   Actions. The Mayor (or the Mayor’s designee) will make a disaster
declaration and activate the EOC. Members of the EOC, under the direction of
the Mayor, will organize and coordinate the city’s response. Those departments
responsible for on-scene management will establish an on-site command post in
accordance with the incident command system protocols, and will notify the EOC
and all responding agencies of the location of the incident on-site command
post. The on-site command post will coordinate directly with the EOC.
      (4)   Notification. The Mayor, City Council, Emergency Manager,
department heads, and other agencies, as appropriate, to include: the County
Sheriff’s office, Community Resource Officer, the County Fire Department, the
County Emergency Manager, and the like.
      (5)   Press relations. Press relations will be handled by the Mayor,
Emergency Manager, or assigned public information officer (PIO).
      (6)   Location. Personnel will report to the EOC.
      (7)   Activation of the EOC. The county EOC may also be activated to
support the city EOC. If the county EOC is not activated, the County Emergency
Manager may report to the city EOC for coordination and support. The County
Joint Information Center may be activated (with or without the county EOC being
activated) to support the city’s information needs.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.180)
(Ord. 40-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
CHAPTER 35: GENERAL CITY POLICIES
Section
Constitutional Takings and Rights
   
35.01   Purpose
   
35.02   Definition
   
35.03   Guidelines
   
35.04   Analysis
   
35.05   Appeals
   
35.06   Limitations
Smoking Prohibited
   
35.20   Definitions
   
35.21   Prohibitions
   
35.22   Exceptions
   
35.23   Posting of signs
 
   
35.99   Penalty
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKINGS AND RIGHTS
§ 35.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide advisory guidelines for the
city to assist the city in identifying actions that involve physical taking, or
exaction of, private real property that may have constitutional taking issues.
(Prior Code, § 3.22.010) (Ord. 21-2020, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 35.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES. Actions involving the physical or regulatory
taking of private real property by the city that might require compensation to
a private real property owner under:
      (1)   The Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States;
      (2)   Article 1, Section 22 of the State Constitution; or
      (3)   Any recent court rulings governing the physical or regulatory
taking of private real property by a governmental entity.
(Prior Code, § 3.22.020) (Ord. 21-2020, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 35.03 GUIDELINES.
   The following guidelines shall be considered by the city when taking any
action that might result in the physical or regulatory taking of private real
property. The city should review the following to determine and identify
whether a proposed governmental action raises constitutional taking issues.
   (A)   Does the action result in a permanent physical occupation of private
property?
   (B)   Does the action require a property owner to dedicate property or grant
an easement to the city?
   (C)   Does the action deprive the property owner of all economically viable
uses of the property?
   (D)   Does the action have a severe impact on the property owner’s economic
interest?
   (E)    Does the action deny a fundamental attribute of ownership?
(Prior Code, § 3.22.030) (Ord. 21-2020, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 35.04 ANALYSIS.
   (A)   If the city determines that a governmental action involves
constitutional taking issues, the proposed action should be reviewed by the
city to analyze the possible taking and to determine the action to be taken.
   (B)   In reviewing the proposed action, the following factors may be
analyzed:
      (1)   The effect the potential taking would have on the use or value of
the private property;
      (2)   The likelihood that the action may result in a constitutional
taking;
      (3)   Any alternatives to the proposed action that would fulfill the
city’s lawful objectives and reduce the risk of a constitutional taking;
      (4)   The cost to the city for payment of compensation if a taking is
determined;
      (5)   The governmental interest involved and its nexus to the potential
taking; and
      (6)   If the action is roughly proportionate or reasonably related to the
impact of any proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 3.22.040) (Ord. 21-2020, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 35.05 APPEALS.
   Any owner of private property whose interest in the property is subject to a
physical or regulatory taking by the city, pursuant to a final and
authoritative decision or action of the city, may appeal the city’s decision or
action by filing a written notice of appeal and statement of the grounds for
the appeal in the City Recorder’s office within 30 days from the date of the
city’s decision or action. The City Council, or its designee, shall hear all
evidence regarding the appeal and render its decision and findings, in writing,
within 14 days from the date the appeal was filed. If the city fails to hear
and decide the appeal within 14 days, the city’s decision or action is presumed
to be approved.
(Prior Code, § 3.22.050) (Ord. 21-2020, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 35.06 LIMITATIONS.
   The guidelines set forth herein are advisory only and shall not be construed
to expand, nor limit, the scope of the city’s liability for a constitutional
taking. The city shall have no legal liability to any person, firm, or entity
of any nature whatsoever, and a court may not impose liability upon the city
for failure to comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.22.060) (Ord. 21-2020, passed 5-20-2020)
SMOKING PROHIBITED
§ 35.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   CITY PARK. City-owned parks, public squares, ball diamonds, golf courses,
soccer fields, and other recreation areas, city-owned cemeteries and trails,
and city buildings and facilities, but not designated smoking areas specified
by the city.
   MASS GATHERING. An outdoor assembly of 100 or more people on city-owned
property that reasonably can be expected to continue for two or more hours.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. Possessing, carrying, or holding a lighted pipe, cigar, or
cigarette of any kind, or any other lighted smoking equipment, or the lighting
or emitting, or exhaling, of smoke of a pipe, cigar, or cigarette of any kind,
or of any other lighted smoking equipment.
(Prior Code, § 8.10.010) (Ord. 13-2007, passed 10-3-2007)
§ 35.21 PROHIBITIONS.
   Smoking is hereby prohibited in city parks, light rail train stations,
within 25 feet of bus stops, and within 50 feet of mass gatherings.
(Prior Code, § 8.10.020) (Ord. 13-2007, passed 10-3-2007) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.22 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   American Indian/Alaska Native ceremonies.
      (1)   A person is exempt from the restrictions of this subchapter if the
person:
         (a)   Is a member of an American Indian/Alaska Native tribe whose
members are recognized as eligible for the special programs and services
provided by the United States to American Indians/Alaska Natives who are
members of those tribes;
         (b)   Is an American Indian/Alaska Native who actively practices an
American Indian/Alaska Native religion, the origin and interpretation of which
is from a traditional American Indian/Alaska Native culture;
         (c)   Is smoking tobacco using the traditional pipe of an American
Indian/Alaska Native tribal religious ceremony, of which tribe the person is a
member, and is smoking the pipe as part of that ceremony; and
         (d)   The ceremony is conducted by a pipe carrier, American Indian/
Alaska Native spiritual person, or medicine person recognized by the tribe of
which the person is a member, and by the American Indian/Alaska Native
community.
      (2)   A religious ceremony using a traditional pipe under this section is
subject to any applicable state or local law, except as provided in this
section.
   (B)   First Amendment activities. A person is exempt from the restrictions
of this subchapter if the person is smoking or using smoking materials to
exercise protected First Amendment activities, such as smoking or the use of
materials for bona fide religious purposes.
(Prior Code, § 8.10.030) (Ord. 13-2007, passed 10-3-2007) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.23 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   “No Smoking” signs, or the international “no smoking” symbol (consisting of
a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with
a red bar across it), shall be clearly and conspicuously posted in every city
park. Notwithstanding this provision, the mere fact that a sign is absent or
has been removed once it has been placed as required shall not, standing alone,
be a defense to a charge of having violated the conditions and prohibitions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.10.040) (Ord. 13-2007, passed 10-3-2007) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A first violation of §§
35.20 through
35.23 is an infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed $50, but not by
imprisonment.
      (2)   A subsequent violation of §§
35.20 through
35.23 within two years is a Class C misdemeanor.
      (3)   Police officers shall have the discretion to issue a warning if
they deem it is in the best interest of the city for the first offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.10.050) (Ord. 13-2007, passed 10-3-2007)
CHAPTER 36: PURCHASING: PROCUREMENT OF SUPPLIES, EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES
Section
   
36.01   Statutory authority
   
36.02   Purpose of provisions
   
36.03   Definitions
   
36.04   Purchasing agent
   
36.05   Department heads to determine items to be purchased
   
36.06   Purchasing categories and authorization
   
36.07   Invitation for bids procedures
   
36.08   Construction contracting management
   
36.09   Use of request for proposals in lieu of invitation for bids
   
36.10   Rules and guidelines for request for proposals
   
36.11   Exemptions
   
36.12   Value amounts
   
36.13   Change orders
   
36.14   Emergency purchases
   
36.15   Subdivision of purchase prohibited
   
36.16   Interlocal cooperation
   
36.17   Computer hardware and software purchases
   
36.18   Prohibited practices
   
36.19   Documentation and retention of bids
   
36.20   Protests
   
36.21   Fiscal responsibility and training
   
36.22   Audits
§ 36.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The statutory authority for enacting this chapter is UCA §§ 10-6-122 and 10-
6-121, as amended.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.02 PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the procuring of
supplies, equipment, or services by departments and agencies of the city in a
manner that promotes the best interests of the public; establishing the duties,
obligations, and operational procedures of the city purchasing agent; including
appointment procedures and the rules relating to procurement and other related
functions as approved by City Council and included in the annual budget.
   (B)   Any purchase not specified in the annual budget must be approved by
direct action of the City Council.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.03 DEFINITIONS.
   CITY. West Haven City.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD. The head of any city department or elected official.
   INVITATION FOR BIDS. A process of soliciting sealed written bids for goods
or services after ten days' notice posted in the City Hall and publicly
distributed through one of the following methods: use of internet purchasing
websites, state procurement website, and/or the city website. INVITATION FOR
BIDS shall be opened by the purchasing agent at the time and place stated in
the public notice.
   LOCAL VENDOR. 
      (1)   A business having:
         (a)   A commercial office, store, distribution center, or other place
of business located within the boundaries of the city, with an intent to remain
on a permanent basis;
         (b)   A current business license in the city; and
         (c)   At least one employee physically present at the local business
outlet having published hours of business.
      (2)   The principal place of business of a local vendor may be elsewhere
as long as a local branch meeting the above criteria is present. The domicile
of one or more partners, owners, associates, directors, employees, or agents
shall not qualify as constituting a local vendor in the absence of a physical
local business outlet within the city.
   OFFICIAL. Any city department head, agency head, or elected official making
purchases on behalf of city.
   OPEN MARKET. Purchasing goods or services on the open market from private
vendors.
   PURCHASE. The acquisition, by contract or otherwise, of goods or services,
by an official on behalf of the city.
   PURCHASE ORDER. A city generated document that authorizes a purchase
transaction. A PURCHASE ORDER sets forth the descriptions, quantities, prices,
discounts, payment terms, date of performance or shipment, other associated
terms and conditions, and identifies a specific seller.
   PURCHASE REQUISITION. A request by a department head (or his or her
authorized agent) to the purchasing agent to purchase for the requesting
department supplies, equipment, or services.
   PURCHASING AGENCY. Any city department, other than the purchasing office,
that is authorized by this chapter or its implementing regulations, or by way
of delegation from the purchasing agent, to enter into contracts.
   PURCHASING AGENT. The City Manager, or the individual duly appointed and
qualified to act under the direction of the City Manager, that has the power to
negotiate the purchase of or contract for supplies, equipment, or services
required by the city. If no other individual has been appointed as PURCHASING
AGENT, then all references to the purchasing agent in this chapter, by default,
shall be the City Manager.
   PURCHASING CARD. A city credit or debit card issued by a credit card
company, bank, or other financial institution and provided to city employees
for the purpose of making purchases on behalf of departments of the city.
   REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS. A process of soliciting goods or services through a
formal process from known responsible suppliers utilizing a predetermined
scoring system other than solely based on cost.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.04 PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   Appointment.
      (1)   The City Manager is the purchasing agent for the city.
      (2)   The City Manager may appoint with the advice and consent of the
City Council, a designee to act as purchasing agent (hereinafter "purchasing
agent").
      (3)   The purchasing agent shall act under the direction and supervision
of the City Manager to review, coordinate, recommend, and authorize all city
purchases or encumbrances as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Powers. The purchasing agent shall have the following powers:
      (1)   Work cooperatively with and assist city departments, offices, and
agencies to comply with the purchasing, and procurement regulations as may be
established by the City Council and City Manager.
      (2)   Review and approve, pursuant to the requirements outlined in this
chapter, purchase requisitions and contracts for the acquisition of supplies,
equipment, or services for purchases in excess of $5,000.
      (3)   Assure compliance with bidding and purchasing procedures provided
in this chapter.
      (4)   Provide for the transfer of surplus or unused supplies and
equipment between departments wherever it can be done effectively.
      (5)   Maintain adequate bidders' lists, vendors' catalog files, and such
other records as may be necessary for efficient purchasing activities.
      (6)   Recommend to the City Council, under the direction of the City
Manager, for adoption of such rules and regulations as may be reasonable and
necessary to clarify and implement the provisions hereof, including additional
procedures that may be desirable.
      (7)   Prescribe and update from time to time such forms as may be
reasonably necessary for the implementation of this chapter, including, but not
limited to, requisitions, purchase orders, and bid forms.
      (8)   Revise requisitions or estimates of a department's requirements of
supplies and contractual services as to quantity, quality, or estimated cost,
whenever revision is approved by the department head and deemed to be in the
best interests of the city.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.05 DEPARTMENT HEADS TO DETERMINE ITEMS TO BE PURCHASED.
   (A)   All department heads shall determine what items shall be purchased for
their respective departments as provided for in the annual budget as approved
by City Council.
   (B)   Once a determination has been made regarding the items to be
purchased, and if the items to be purchased are expected to exceed $5,000, the
department head shall inform the purchasing agent of the items to be purchased
by submitting a purchase requisition.
   (C)   The purchasing agent will work cooperatively with the department head
to locate such items at the best available value.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.06 PURCHASING CATEGORIES AND AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   Purchasing categories. The city classifies purchasing categories.
These categories are based on the dollar amount and type of purchases. Each
category establishes a separate purchasing limit, authorization level, and
procedure. These categories are as follows:
Category Limitation Authorization
Category               Limitation        Authorization
Small purchases        Less than $5,000  Department head
Intermediate purchases $5,000 to $50,000 Purchasing agent
Major purchases        $50,000 or more   City Council
Professional services  Less than $10,000 City Manager
                      $10,000 or more   City Council
Change orders          $10,000 or less   City Manager
                      $10,000 or more   City Council
 
   (B)   Purchasing authorization.
      (1)   Small purchases.
         (a)   Purchases of supplies, equipment, or services less than $5,000
may be made by the department head (or his or her authorized agent) on the open
market.
         (b)   The department head (or his or her authorized agent) is
responsible to check for competitive pricing for all purchases and shall retain
documentation of pricing and/or proposals for each transaction for a period of
36 months.
      (2)   Intermediate purchases.
         (a)   In cooperation with the department head, the purchasing agent
shall make purchases of supplies, equipment, or services between $5,000 and up
to $50,000.
         (b)   At the option of the purchasing agent, purchases may be made by
following one of these three processes:
            1.   Request for quote;
            2.   Invitation for bids; or
            3.   Request for proposals.
         (c)   Bids/proposals shall be obtained in writing prior to the
acquisition of the requested supplies, equipment, or services.
         (d)   If less than three bids/proposals are received, the City Manager
will consult with the City Council before proceeding with the award of bids/
proposals.
      (3)   Major purchases.
         (a)   In cooperation with the department head, the purchasing agent
shall prepare, review, and present recommendations to the City Manager for
purchases of supplies, equipment, or services in excess of $50,000.
         (b)   At the option of the City Manager, purchases may be made by
following one of these two processes:
            1.   Invitation for bids; or
            2.   Request for proposals.
   (C)   Purchase order required. Purchase orders shall accompany all purchases
except for those made by use of a city-issued purchasing card.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.07 INVITATION FOR BIDS PROCEDURES.
   Where invitation for bids is required, the lowest responsive and responsible
bidder shall be determined as follows:
   (A)   Bid opening.
      (1)   Sealed bids shall be submitted as designated in the notice with the
statement "Bid for (Item)" on the envelope.
      (2)   Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in the
notice.
      (3)   A tabulation of all bids received shall be open for public
inspection during regular business hours.
   (B)   Rejection of bids.
      (1)   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to reject any or all
bids, parts of all bids, or all bids for any one or more supplies or
contractual services included in the proposed bid for any reason allowed by
law, including, but not limited to, situations where the low responsive and
responsible bid exceeds available funds as certified by the appropriate city
officer, or when the public interest will be served thereby.
      (2)   Where a bid exceeds available funds and time or economic
considerations preclude re- solicitation of work or purchase of a reduced scope
or quantity, the purchasing agent may, at his or her sole discretion, negotiate
an adjustment of the bid price, including changes in the bid requirements, with
the low responsible bidder, in order to bring the low bid within the amount of
available funds.
   (C)   Tie bids. If two or more bids received are for the same total amount
from equally responsive and responsible bidders, the purchasing agent may, at
his or her sole discretion, negotiate with the tie bidders, award the bid by
lot, or re-advertise the bid.
   (D)   Local preference.
      (1)   If a low bid is submitted by a non-local vendor, the bid may be
awarded to a responsive and responsible local vendor if the local vendor's bid
is within 5% of the low nonlocal vendor's bid, and if the local vendor agrees,
in writing, within 72 hours after notification, to meet the low bid.
      (2)   Such notice shall contain the exact bid submitted by the nonlocal
bidder, and the purchasing agent shall not award the bid until 72 hours have
elapsed after notification to the local vendor.
   (E)   Lowest responsive and responsible bidder. In determining who is the
lowest responsive and responsible bidder, in addition to price, the purchasing
agent may consider factors relevant to the successful operation of the city's
business and the best interests of the city as a whole.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.08 CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Construction manager/general contractor.
      (1)   Pursuant to UCA § 11-39-107 as a method of construction contracting
management, the city may use a construction manager/general contractor (CMGC),
as defined in UCA § 63G-6a-103.
      (2)   If the city elects to authorize the use of a CMGC, said CMGC may be
selected through a sealed invitation for bids procedure or sealed request for
proposals in lieu of bids.
         (a)   If sealed proposals are used in lieu of bids, proposals shall be
solicited through a request for proposals, which shall state the relative
importance of price and other evaluating factors.
         (b)   Public notice of the request for proposals, describing the
position sought and the criteria for the position, shall be given a reasonable
time before the date for the opening of the bids.
         (c)   As provided in the request for proposals, discussions may be
conducted with responsible offerors who submit proposals for the purpose of
assuring full understanding of, and responsiveness to, solicitation
requirements.
      (3)   Subcontracts while using a CMGC. When entering into any subcontract
that was not specifically included in the CMGC's cost proposal, the CMGC shall
procure the subcontractor by using sealed invitation for bids or sealed request
for proposals.
      (4)   Pre-qualification. Bidders for the position of CMGC may be required
to "prequalify" by presenting their state contractor's license, performance
bond, and other qualifications (e.g., length of time in the business, list of
jobs previously done, and written permission to contact previous employers, and
the like) at the time they submit their bids.
   (B)   Design build provider. A design build provider, as defined in UCA §
63G-6a-103, may be used as a method of construction contracting management for
a city building construction project.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.09 USE OF REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS IN LIEU OF INVITATION FOR BIDS.
   (A)   When the purchasing agent determines in writing that the use of
invitation for bids is either not practicable or not advantageous to city, a
contract may be entered into by use of a request for proposals.
   (B)   Request for proposals may be used for the procurement of services of
consultants or professionals, whether or not the determination described in
this section has been made.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.10 RULES AND GUIDELINES FOR REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   (A)   (1)   Public notice of the request for proposals shall be publicly
advertised through one of the following methods: use of internet purchasing
websites, state procurement website, and/or the city website at least ten days
before opening the proposals and shall state the date that proposals shall be
submitted.
      (2)   This notice requirement shall not apply in instances of emergency
repairs.
   (B)   (1)   Proposals shall be opened in public, but the contents of the
proposals shall not be disclosed to competing offerors during the process of
negotiation, except in the case of a local vendor preference under §
36.07.
      (2)   The city may disclose to the public the names of those who have
submitted proposals to the city.
   (C)   (1)   A register of proposals shall be prepared and filed in the
office of the city purchasing agent, which shall be open for public inspection
after the contract is awarded.
      (2)   The request for proposals shall state the relative importance of
price and other evaluating factors and shall state the period of time in which
the submitted proposal must remain valid.
   (D)   Discussions may be initiated by the purchasing agent with responsible
offerors who submit proposals for the purpose of assuring full understanding
of, and responsiveness to, solicitation requirements.
   (E)   In conducting discussions, the city shall not disclose any information
derived from proposals submitted by competing offerors.
   (F)   Offerors shall be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect to
any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals.
   (G)   Once a proposal has been submitted, no further revision from the
offeror will be allowed unless it is in response to a request for
clarification, best-and-final offer, or other response to communications from
the purchasing agent.
   (H)   The contract shall be awarded to the responsible offeror whose
proposal is determined in writing to be the most advantageous to the city,
taking into consideration price and the evaluation factors set forth in the
request for proposals. No other factors or criteria shall be used in the
evaluation.
   (I)   The contract file shall contain the basis on which the award is made.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.11 EXEMPTIONS.
   To the extent set forth herein or as otherwise required by law, the
following purchases are exempt from the requirements of §
36.06.
   (A)   Contracts for the repair, alteration, or construction of building
improvements and public works projects, which must conform to the requirements
of UCA § 11-39-101, et seq., as amended.
   (B)   Existing contracts for goods or services negotiated prior to enactment
of this chapter.
   (C)   Contracts which by their nature are not suited to award on a
competitive basis.
   (D)   Purchases that a city official determines can be made at below market
cost at a public auction, closeout sale, bankruptcy sale, or other similar
sale.
   (E)   Exchanges with other public agencies that a city official determines
can be made at a savings to the taxpayer.
   (F)   Purchases from vendors on the state purchasing office bid list or in
the NAACO purchasing program.
   (G)   Purchases of supplies, equipment or services produced by state
correctional industries.
   (H)   Purchases of goods or services approved by the City Manager as
necessary to meet an emergency need.
   (I)   Joint purchase agreements with other public agencies and organizations
when the City Manager determines the joint purchase agreement to be in the best
interest of the city.
   (J)   Professional service contracts for external auditor as administered
through the City Auditor’s office.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.12 VALUE AMOUNTS.
   Value amounts used herein refer to both unit cost and combined multiple unit
cost and a determination of the estimated value of supplies, equipment, or
services that have been requested by purchase requisition shall be made by the
purchasing agent in determining the applicability of the bidding procedure
after review of the pertinent purchase requisition and specifications.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.13 CHANGE ORDERS.
   (A)   A change order form must document any change order for an approved
contract.
   (B)   Change orders shall require the following authorizations:
      (1)   When a change of condition or additional work is required to
continue the orderly progression of an authorized project, a change order shall
be prepared by the department head directing the work to be accomplished at
contract unit prices, an agreed upon lump sum price, or as provided for by
contract.
      (2)   Change orders, either singly or in aggregate, or in aggregate with
adjustments in individual bid items, for less than $10,000 or up to 10% of the
contract price, whichever is greater, and within the appropriated budget, may
be authorized by the City Manager after consultation with the respective
department head.
      (3)   (a)   Change orders, either singly, or in aggregate, or in
aggregate with adjustments in individual bid items, in excess of $10,000 must
be preauthorized by the City Council.
         (b)   Additional contract work outside the scope of work as defined in
the contract or in excess of the appropriated budget requires approval by the
City Council and a supplemental appropriation.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the above change order authorizations, the City
Manager may authorize emergency changes in work outside the original scope of
work or in excess of the appropriated contract.
         (a)   For the purpose of this section, an emergency condition will
exist if the failure to act immediately will endanger the public health,
safety, or welfare or will jeopardize the fiscal position of the city.
         (b)   Such emergency action shall be reported in full to the Mayor and
City Council within 72 hours.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.14 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   (A)   In certain situations, such as, but not limited to, during the
declaration of an emergency, it may be necessary to make emergency purchases,
which shortcut the preapprovals required for intermediate or major purchases,
as outlined in this chapter.
   (B)   An emergency purchase may be made when there is an immediate need to
acquire a particular good or service not already available to city staff.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, an emergency situation is one in which
there is an immediate threat to life or property or in which there is or would
be a complete disruption of a vital public service. The emergency must be of
such a nature and severity that the department head would be immediately
notified, regardless of time of day.
   (D)   An emergency purchase of up to $20,000 or less must be preapproved
verbally by the appropriate department head.
   (E)   An emergency purchase over $20,000 must be preapproved verbally by the
department head and either the City Manager or purchasing agent.
   (F)   After an emergency purchase, of any amount, has been made, a purchase
order shall be requested from and prepared by the auditor's office on the next
working day. Documentation signed by the department head should include a
description of the emergency.
   (G)   In all cases, the City Manager shall be notified within 72 hours of
any and all emergency purchases.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.15 SUBDIVISION OF PURCHASE PROHIBITED.
   No contract or purchase shall be subdivided or shall utilize split purchases
to avoid the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.16 INTERLOCAL COOPERATION.
   Wherever the public benefit can be maximized, and costs minimized by
entering into joint agreements with other public agencies or organizations for
the purchase or construction of any commodity, service, or public work, the
city shall have the power to so agree, upon approval and action by the City
Manager.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.17 COMPUTER HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE PURCHASES.
   To ensure compatibility with the city's existing computer and communication
systems, all hardware and software purchases will be reviewed and preapproved
by the Director of Information Technology.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.18 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any officer, agent, or employee of the city, or any
outside party or entity dealing or seeking to deal with the city to engage in
any of the following practices:
   (A)   Collusion or other agreement among bidders or prospective bidders, in
restraint of freedom of competition, to fix or in any way rig prices or bids.
In addition, any bid tainted with such collusion shall be voidable at the
option of the city.
   (B)   Disclosure in advance of the opening of bids of the amount or content
of one bid to another bidder or potential bidder. If the City Manager deems
such disclosure sufficiently material, he or she shall void the bidding process
and require a new advertisement or invitation for bids.
   (C)   Tender or acceptance of any gratuity in the form of cash, merchandise,
or other thing of value by a bidder, vendor or contractor to an officer, agent,
or employee of the city, whether before or after a bid opening or the execution
of a contract, which could reasonably be expected to influence him or her in
the performance of his or her duties or was intended as a reward for any
official action on his or her part.
   (D)   Purchase of supplies or equipment for the personal use of an officer,
agent, or employee of the city in the name of the city, whether part of a city
purchase or contract or separate, and whether paid for with city funds or
personal funds of the purchaser. Sole exception shall be where the item or
items purchased are required parts of a worker's equipment or uniform and
necessary to the successful performance of his or her duties as a city officer
or employee, although personally owned by him or her.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.19 DOCUMENTATION AND RETENTION OF BIDS.
   Whenever the city is required by this chapter to receive bids for purchases,
construction, repairs, or any other purchase requiring the expenditure of
funds, the city department who is in receipt of the bids shall keep all bids
received, together with proof of advertisement by publication or otherwise, for
at least three years following the letting of any contract pursuant to those
bids or three years following the first advertisement for the bids, if all bids
pursuant to that advertisement are rejected.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.20 PROTESTS.
   (A)   A person who is an actual or prospective bidder, offeror, or
contractor that is aggrieved in connection with a procurement or award of a
contract may protest to the Mayor, as follows:
      (1)   File a written protest with the Mayor setting forth the protestor's
name, physical mailing address, e-mail address, and a concise statement of the
grounds upon which the protest is made.
      (2)   The written protest must be received by the Mayor before the
opening of bids or the closing date for proposals. However, if the person did
not know and should not have known of the facts giving rise to the protest
before the bid opening or the closing date for proposals, then the person must
file the written protest within seven calendar days after the day on which the
person knows or should have known of the facts giving rise to the protest.
      (3)   A person who fails to timely file a written protest under this
section may not bring a protest, action, or appeal challenging a solicitation
or award of a contract before the City Manager, the Mayor, the City Council, a
court, or any other forum.
      (4)   The City Manager or Mayor may enter into a settlement agreement to
resolve a protest.
   (B)   After a timely written protest is filed in accordance with division
(A) of this section, the Mayor shall consider the protest and may hold a
hearing on the protest, as follows:
      (1)   The Mayor may subpoena witnesses and compel their attendance at a
protest hearing.
      (2)   The Mayor may subpoena documents for production at a protest
hearing.
      (3)   The rules of evidence do not apply to a protest hearing.
      (4)   The Mayor may allow intervention of other parties into a protest.
      (5)   If a hearing on a protest is held, the Mayor shall record the
hearing and preserve all evidence presented at the hearing.
      (6)   Regardless of whether a hearing on a protest is held, the Mayor
shall preserve all records and other evidence relied upon in reaching the
written decision described in division B(8) of this section.
      (7)   The records described in divisions B(5) and B(6) of this section
may not be destroyed until the written decision, and any appeal of the written
decision, becomes final.
      (8)   The Mayor shall promptly issue a written decision regarding any
protest or contract controversy if it is not settled by mutual agreement.
      (9)   The written decision shall state the reasons for the action taken
and inform the protestor, contractor, or prospective contractor of the right to
appeal to the City Council. The Mayor shall mail, e-mail, or otherwise
immediately furnish a copy of the written decision to the protestor,
contractor, or prospective contractor.
      (10)   If the Mayor does not issue the written decision regarding a
protest within 30 calendar days after the day on which a written request for a
final decision is filed with the Mayor by the protestor, or within a longer
period as may be agreed upon by the parties, the protestor, contractor, or
prospective contractor may proceed as if an adverse decision had been received.
      (11)   A decision described in division B(8) of this section is effective
until stayed or reversed on appeal.
      (12)   The Mayor may dismiss a protest which is not filed in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   A written appeal setting forth the grounds for the appeal must be
filed with the City Council within ten calendar days of the date of the written
decision of the Mayor.
      (1)   The City Council shall presume that the written decision of the
Mayor is valid and determine only whether or not the decision is arbitrary or
capricious.
      (2)   The City Council's review is limited to the Mayor's administrative
record. The City Council may not accept or consider any evidence outside of the
Mayor's administrative record.
      (3)   The City Council shall issue a written decision regarding any
appeal.
         (a)   The written decision shall state the reasons for the action
taken and inform the protestor, contractor, or prospective contractor of the
right to appeal this final decision of the City Council to district court
within thirty calendar days of the date of the written decision.
         (b)   The district court's review is limited to the City Council's
appellate record in the determination of whether or not the City Council's
written decision is arbitrary or capricious.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.21 FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY AND TRAINING.
   (A)   Individuals making expenditures, or approving expenditures made, in
violation of this chapter may be held personally responsible for full
reimbursement of the purchase or expenditure and may receive disciplinary
action up to and including dismissal. Elected officials will be subject to
penalties in accordance with state law.
   (B)   (1)   All individuals expending funds under the authority of this
chapter shall receive annual training to ensure they understand their
authority, limits of their authority, and responsibilities.
      (2)   All such individuals shall sign a statement indicating they have
received appropriate training and understand the training. Signed statements
will be kept on file with the purchasing agent.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023)
§ 36.22 AUDITS.
   (A)   The City Manager shall be responsible for conducting an audit of all
purchasing made for the city for compliance with requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   On the first City Council meeting following the end of each fiscal
quarter, the City Manager shall provide a written report to the City Council
with detailed findings regarding those purchases made in that fiscal quarter
that total between $10,000 and $50,000.
(Ord. 36-2022, passed 1-4-2023; Ord. 27-2023, passed 12-6-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   GARBAGE, COLLECTION, AND DISPOSAL
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
   
50.01   Installation, maintenance of drains, waterways
§ 50.01 INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE OF DRAINS, WATERWAYS.
   (A)   Findings of governing body. The City Council finds that proper drains
and waterways are necessary for the purpose of controlling the flow of water
within the city;
   (B)   Standards and criteria.
      (1)   Pipes installed in drains and waterways shall be of the size
required as otherwise set out in this section.
      (2)   Pipes shall be of concrete construction only, and shall be
constructed in accordance with city standards and specifications in existence
for such pipe at the time of the installation of said pipe.
      (3)   Any pipe installed pursuant to this section shall be sized,
installed, and properly bedded on, and in, gravel in accordance with the then-
existing city standards and specifications for such pipe and installation, and
shall, in addition, be installed with joints unsealed so as to allow
infiltration of subsurface water that may exist, but said open joints shall be
enclosed with fabric material of a type and in accordance with standards, and
specifications, as may be approved by the city.
      (4)   The city, at its office, shall maintain a schedule showing the
required size of pipe that shall be installed in particular areas of the city,
as described therein.
      (5)   The city shall, at all times, also maintain a map showing which
drains are public. Those drains listed on the map, and described in the
schedule as being public drains, shall be maintained by the city. The following
drains, however, shall not be maintained by the city, but by the entities
presently responsible for their maintenance: Wilson drain, Hooper drain, and
the Howard drain. The schedule and map herein referenced and cited are hereby
adopted and made part of this section by reference as if set out fully herein,
together with any amendments thereto as authorized from time to time by the
Council.
      (6)   All proposed installation of pipe in drains and waterways shall
require an application to be filed with the city for a permit and prior
approval of the city before installation of said pipe.
      (7)   Where drains maintained by the city go through private property, it
is the responsibility of said property owners to provide a method of access to
those drains sufficient to allow the city to perform required drain
maintenance. This access may be in the form of an appropriate gate, or other
equally-efficient and effective device, providing for ingress and egress on the
cleaning side of the drain to accommodate any drain cleaning equipment and
personnel.
      (8)   Overhead objects hanging over, or going across, public drains must
be maintained by the adjacent property owners with at least 18 feet of
clearance above the surface plane of the ground adjacent to the drain.
      (9)   It is unlawful for any person or entity to place any substation, or
other obstruction, in drains or waterways, or to locate any structure that
would restrict to any degree the free flowage of water in the drain.
(Ord. 9-92, passed 7-20-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE, COLLECTION, AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
51.01   Generally
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Residential curbside collection
   
51.04   Exemptions to residential curbside collection
   
51.05   Billing
   
51.06   Collection of commercial waste
   
51.07   Commercial or private haulers
   
51.08   Collection vehicles
   
51.09   Transportation of waste
§ 51.01 GENERALLY.
   Due to the potential health, safety, and welfare hazards posed by garbage
and other refuse, the city is authorized, and shall have power to develop and
enforce, ordinances, rules, and regulations governing the disposal and
collection of garbage.
(Prior Code, § 8.07.010) (Ord. 39-2020, passed 11-4-2020)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL HAULER. Any person or entity who, in the regular course of
business or for a fee, collects, transports, and disposes of commercial waste.
   COMMERCIAL PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any premises or property:
         (a)   Used primarily in connection with the supply of goods or
services on a regular basis or in the regular course of business, or for which
a business license is required by any state law or local ordinance;
         (b)   Containing a structure hooked to power and water, and used for
human habitation on an overnight or other temporary rental basis of less than
30 consecutive days; or
         (c)    Containing a structure with more than eight dwelling units
hooked to power and water, and used for human habitation on a rental basis.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL PROPERTY shall include, but shall not be limited to,
business establishments, hotels, motels, recreational vehicle developments, and
apartments.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE. Any garbage, rubbish, trash, and the like, produced by
businesses or resulting from normal activities on, or use of, commercial
property or premises.
   CONTAINER. A waste receptacle approved by the city, with a capacity of 94
gallons and equipped with a tightfitting, permanently-attached lid and wheels
for easy movement, and which is specifically designed for automated, or
semiautomated, pickup.
   DUMPSTER. Any container constructed of metal, of two yards’ volume or more,
and designed to be compatible with mechanical collection equipment.
   PRIVATE HAULER.
      (1)   Any person or entity who, as the owner, tenant, or other occupant
of property or premises classified as commercial, collects, and disposes of,
solid waste generated by the use of said property; and
      (2)   Any person or entity who collects, and disposes of, construction
debris.
   RESIDENTIAL. Shall include, but shall not be limited to, single homes,
mobile homes, townhomes, condominiums and apartments not contained in, or a
part of, an apartment complex of more than eight units, but shall exclude
hotels, motels, recreational vehicle developments, and apartment complexes with
structures containing more than eight dwelling units.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any property or premises containing a structure hooked
to culinary water and power, and which is intended, or used, for human
habitation, but excluding:
      (1)   Property or premises containing a structure hooked to power and
water, and used for human habitation on an overnight or other temporary rental
basis of less than 30 consecutive days; and
      (2)   Property or premises containing a structure with more than eight
dwelling units which is hooked to power and water, and used for human
habitation on a rental basis.
   RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Garbage, rubbish, trash, bulky waste, and other waste
produced by, or resulting from, the normal activities on, or use of, a
residential property or premises. RESIDENTIAL WASTE does not include hazardous
waste, special waste, or stable matter.
   SOLID WASTE. Shall have the same meaning as specified in UCA § 19-6-502(10).
(Prior Code, § 8.07.020) (Ord. 39-2020, passed 11-4-2020)
§ 51.03 RESIDENTIAL CURBSIDE COLLECTION.
   (A)   General. Each residence or residential unit within the city shall have
its solid waste removed by the city or the city’s contracted service provider.
   (B)   Approved containers provided. All solid waste to be collected and
disposed of by the city from residential users must be placed only in approved
containers provided by the city or its service provider. Ownership of
containers is retained by the city or its service provider. Containers are to
remain on the premises. Every resident, or owner, issued a container shall be
responsible for containers issued to his or her account.
   (C)   Issuance. Occupants of single-family dwellings not exceeding eight
independent units shall be issued one container per residence or unit.
Additional containers will be provided upon request. The cost for additional
containers will be as set forth in the city’s fee schedule.
   (D)   Placement for collection; removal. Containers holding residential
solid waste to be collected and hauled by the city, or its contractor, are to
be set out for collection not earlier than 24 hours before the designated
collection day. All empty containers must be removed from the street the same
day they were emptied.
   (E)   Closure. All garbage must be placed in containers that shall, at all
times, be kept securely closed and kept in such place and in such manner as to
prevent offensive odors in the neighborhood.
   (F)   Ashes. No hot ashes shall be deposited in the same vessel or container
with combustible garbage. No hot ashes shall be placed out for collection or
removal.
   (G)   Care and maintenance. Containers shall be kept free from destructive
or decorative markings, shall maintain the original color, and shall keep the
inside of the container clean and free from buildup of fungus, bacteria, or any
other contamination which causes odors or facilitates the deterioration of the
container. Any damage to the container, or malfunctioning, must be reported to
the Public Works Department of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.07.030) (Ord. 39-2020, passed 11-4-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 EXEMPTIONS TO RESIDENTIAL CURBSIDE COLLECTION.
   (A)   A resident, or the owner of a residential unit, may elect to opt out
of city-provided collection service; provided that the opt-out election is
communicated to the City Recorder using the city-approved form, and only if
collection of residential waste may be accomplished by use of dumpsters in
these instances:
      (1)   Apartments, or other high-density residential developments, of more
than eight units as approved by the city.
      (2)   Residential lots of eight-tenths acres, or larger, in size with
these restrictions:
         (a)   In neighborhoods with curbs and gutters, dumpsters must be
mobile in nature and kept off the street, except on the designated collection
day; and
         (b)   In neighborhoods without curbs and gutters, dumpsters, whether
stationary or mobile, must be placed and maintained on the resident’s property
outside of the city’s right-of-way.
      (3)   Residential lots with a city-licensed business.
   (B)   Review and determination of all opt-out requests will be decided by
the City Manager. Residents may appeal the City Manager’s decision, in writing,
to the City Council.
   (C)   Accessory dwelling units (ADU), as defined in §
157.455, are exempt from the requirement to have an individual trash container.
(Prior Code, § 8.07.040) (Ord. 39-2020, passed 11-4-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 BILLING.
   (A)   Fees for residential waste collection provided by the city shall be
billed, and must be paid, monthly.
   (B)   These fees shall be included as a part of regular billing for other
municipal services supplied by the city, including, but not limited to,
sanitary sewer system, storm sewer system, culinary water system, and the like.
   (C)   Failure to timely pay any portion of the utility bill shall be subject
to all collection procedures for other utility services provided by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.07.050) (Ord. 39-2020, passed 11-4-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 COLLECTION OF COMMERCIAL WASTE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the owner or lessee of any commercial
property or premises from transporting his or her own commercial waste to the
landfill, transfer station, or contracting for its removal with a commercial
hauler properly licensed, and authorized, to conduct business within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.07.060) (Ord. 39-2020, passed 11-4-2020)
§ 51.07 COMMERCIAL OR PRIVATE HAULERS.
   No private or commercial hauler may collect, or dispose of, commercial solid
waste generated by businesses or through the use of commercial property within
the city without having first obtained a license to operate as a private or
commercial hauler.
(Prior Code, § 8.07.070) (Ord. 39-2020, passed 11-4-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   All trucks or other vehicles used by any private or commercial hauler to
collect or transport solid waste within the city shall:
   (A)   Be maintained in a good mechanical condition;
   (B)   Have fully enclosed sides and bottom, and otherwise be constructed as
to prevent the contents of the vehicle from spilling or blowing while the
vehicle is in motion;
   (C)   Clearly bear on the outside of the body of the vehicle the name and
telephone number of the hauler; and
   (D)   Comply with all provisions of all applicable state or federal
regulations, or laws, concerning the collection, transportation, or disposal of
solid waste.
(Prior Code, § 8.07.080) (Ord. 39-2020, passed 11-4-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09 TRANSPORTATION OF WASTE.
   All solid waste transported by any private or commercial hauler shall be
contained, tied, or enclosed such that leaking, spilling, or blowing are
prevented during transportation.
(Prior Code, § 8.07.090) (Ord. 39-2020, passed 11-4-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
70.01   Dynamic braking devices
§ 70.01 DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person cause, allow, permit, or
fail to control the operation of any motor vehicle with a dynamic braking
device engaged, except for the avoidance of imminent danger.
   (B)   The city’s Public Works Department is directed to cause Wilson Lane to
be so marked and signed.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.060) (Ord. 26-2019, passed 7-17-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Purpose
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Parking or blocking streets, highways, or alleys prohibited
   
71.04   Vehicles for sale
   
71.05   Prohibition of overnight camping on city property
   
71.06   Specific prohibited parking; permit
   
71.07   Vacant lots used as car lots
   
71.08   Loading zone
   
71.09   Parking during snowstorms
   
71.10   Fire hydrant
   
71.11   Procedures for impounded vehicles
   
71.12   Appointees to enforce parking regulations
   
71.13   Authority
   
71.14   Presumption of liability
   
71.15   Notice
   
71.16   Fines
   
71.17   Default
   
71.18   Hearing officer
   
71.19   Contesting the violation
   
71.20   Dismissal
   
71.21   Mitigating circumstances
   
71.22   Collection
   
71.23   Towing
   
71.24   Civil appeals
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to control adverse environmental impacts
from parking within residential zones; to protect city residents from
unreasonable noise and disturbance during nighttime hours; to protect city
residents from unreasonable burdens in gaining access to their residences; to
maintain access to city streets for necessary maintenance and repairs; and to
protect and preserve the peace, safety, good order, convenience, and character
of neighborhoods in the residential zones.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.010) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   RESIDENT. Anyone who resides, or owns, property within the boundaries of the
city.
   VEHICLE. Includes any vehicle, trailer, truck, recreational vehicle, or
watercraft.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.020) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018)
§ 71.03 PARKING OR BLOCKING STREETS, HIGHWAYS, OR ALLEYS PROHIBITED.
   Besides the parking provisions in the State Traffic Code, as adopted by this
city, and re-adopted by ordinance, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Remain standing, lying, or sitting on any street or highway in such a
manner as to obstruct the free passage of vehicular or pedestrian traffic
thereon;
   (B)   Willfully remain standing, lying, or sitting on any street or highway
in such manner for more than one minute after being requested to move by any
law enforcement agency representative;
   (C)   Willfully remain on such street or highway in such manner as to
obstruct the free passage of any person or vehicle into, or out of, any
property abutting upon the street or highway, or any property having access to
such street or highway;
   (D)   Willfully park, or allow to remain parked, a motor vehicle within an
alley in such manner, or under such conditions, as to leave less than ten feet
of the width of the roadway available for the free movement of vehicular
traffic. No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such
a position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property; and
   (E)    It shall be unlawful to park or stop a vehicle upon any highway when
signs or traffic markings give notice that parking or stopping is prohibited.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in a manner other than
parallel to the curb or shoulder of the street, with the front of the vehicle
facing the direction of traffic flow, and within 12 inches from the curb. Where
there is no curb, or the curb is obscured, the right-hand wheels must be as
close as practicable to the edge of the right-hand shoulder or snow bank,
whichever is nearer to the traffic lane. The vehicle must not obstruct traffic
when parked. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle perpendicular or diagonal
to the curb or shoulder of the street.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.030) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018; Ord. 01-2020, passed
1-15-2020; Ord. 16-2020, passed 5-20-2020; Ord. 31-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES FOR SALE.
    It shall be unlawful to park upon a street any vehicle, trailer, or boat to
display such object for sale. Any vehicle, trailer, or boat so parked or left
standing may be impounded or removed by the law enforcement representative of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.040) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018; Ord. 31-2024, passed
9-18-2024)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 PROHIBITION OF OVERNIGHT CAMPING ON CITY PROPERTY.
   Overnight camping in motor homes, campers, trailers, tents, watercraft, or
any vehicles on city property, streets, rights-of-way, alleys, cemeteries, or
parks is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.050) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 SPECIFIC PROHIBITED PARKING; PERMIT.
   (A)   Trailers and recreational-type vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any
person to park or leave standing, for 24 or more hours, on any public road,
street, alley, or city property, any unattached trailer of any type, whether
for the occupancy of people, storage of items, or for towing purposes, and
whether the same be loaded or not, any boat on an unattached trailer or
otherwise, or camper not mounted on a vehicle, any motor home or mini-motor
home of any length, and any combination of a pulling or towing vehicle with an
attached trailer whether loaded or not.
   (B)   Gross vehicle weight. Except as provided above, as regards to
recreational vehicles, it is further unlawful and an infraction to park in, or
on, any such area, city street, or public parking facility, at any time, any
vehicle or motor vehicle having a registered gross weight capability of 12,000
pounds or more.
   (C)   Time-limited. It shall further be unlawful for any person to park or
leave standing on any public road, street, alley, or city property any motor
vehicle for 48, or more, consecutive hours, and any vehicle so parked or left
standing may be impounded or removed by the law enforcement representative of
the city. For purposes of impoundment and removal, the law enforcement
representative of the city may, after making a reasonable effort to locate the
owner, impound and remove any motor vehicle which has been unmoved for 48
consecutive hours. The cost of impoundment and removal shall be charged to the
owner, or to any person who claims the impounded motor vehicle.
   (D)   Special permit. For good cause shown and upon application to, and
receipt of, a special permit from the law enforcement agency, a person may
receive a temporary permit to park a vehicle otherwise prohibited for three
days and nights.
   (E)   Junk vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to cause
or permit junked, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, discarded, or abandoned
vehicles to be on any public road, street, alley, or city property for 24, or
more, consecutive hours, and any vehicle so parked or left standing may be
impounded or removed by the law enforcement representative of the city. For
purposes of impoundment and removal, the law enforcement representative of the
city may, after making a reasonable effort to locate the owner, impound and
remove any motor vehicle which has been unmoved for 24 consecutive hours. The
cost of impoundment and removal shall be charged to the owner, or to any person
who claims the impounded motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.060) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018; Ord. 25-2019, passed
7-17-2019; Ord. 01-2020, passed 1-15-2020; Ord. 15-2020, passed 5-6-2020; Ord.
16-2020, passed 5-20-2020; Ord. 27-2020, passed 7-1-2020; Ord. 31-2024, passed
9-18-2024) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 VACANT LOTS USED AS CAR LOTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a motor vehicle, trailer, or
boat, or for any other person, to park such vehicle, trailer, or boat, or allow
such vehicle, trailer, or boat to be parked, on a vacant lot or parking lot
owned by another person to display it for sale, unless the owner or lessee of
the property on which it is parked has a city business license to engage in the
business of selling motor vehicles, trailers, or boats at that location. It
shall also be unlawful for the owner or lessee of such property to allow
another person to park another vehicle, trailer, or boat on the property to
display it for sale unless the owner or lessee is duly licensed to engage in
the business of selling motor vehicles, trailers, or boats at that location.
   (B)   (1)   Any vehicle, trailer, or boat parked in violation of this
section is declared to be a public nuisance.
      (2)   If a notice of violation has been placed upon such vehicle,
trailer, or boat and it is not removed within 12 hours thereafter, or if two or
more notices of violation have been placed on the same vehicle, trailer, or
boat within the last 30 days, the vehicle, trailer, or boat shall be impounded
as a nuisance.
      (3)   The vehicle, trailer, or boat shall be released to the owner or
responsible party only after the law enforcement agency has received a receipt
for the same acknowledging responsibility of that person for the item being
unlawfully parked.
   (C)   A separate violation occurs each day a vehicle, trailer, or boat is
parked contrary to this section.
   (D)   It shall be a defense to the owner or lessee of any parking lot or
vacant lot on which vehicles have been parked in violation of this section if
the owner or lessee has posted signs on the lot restricting the parking of such
vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.070) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 LOADING ZONE.
   When so posted, it shall be unlawful for the driver of a passenger vehicle
to stand or park such vehicle for a period of time longer than is permitted by
the posted sign for the loading or unloading of passengers, or for the driver
to stand or park any freight-carrying motor vehicle for a period of time longer
than is necessary to load, unload, and deliver materials in any place
designated as a loading zone, and marked as such.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.080) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 PARKING DURING SNOWSTORMS.
   (A)   Prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns or has possession,
custody, or control of any vehicle, or other object, to park or place such item
or property upon, or in, any street of the city from November 15 to March 15
when snow removal is apparent or imminent. Prohibited hours of parking will be
from 12 hours before the time of the projected arrival of an imminent
snowstorm, as broadcast over any commercial radio or television station, and
the time the streets have been plowed or otherwise treated by the city. Parking
may be additionally prohibited for snow removal purposes when determined
necessary by city or law enforcement personnel.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, this section shall not apply to
authorized emergency personnel acting in the scope of their duties.
      (3)   Any vehicle, item, or property parked or placed in violation of
this section is declared a public nuisance.
   (B)   Impoundment. The law enforcement agency representative or snow removal
crews hereby may order the immediate impounding of any vehicle or object parked
or placed in violation of this section after making a reasonable effort to
locate and/or contact the owner, or responsible person, to have the vehicle or
object moved. The cost of impoundment and removal shall be charged to the
owner, or any person who claims the impounded vehicle or object.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.100) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 FIRE HYDRANT.
   It shall be unlawful to stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
except momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger within 15 feet of a fire
hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.110) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 PROCEDURES FOR IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Impounded vehicles will only be released to the owner thereof, or the
person legally entitled to possession under a valid rental or lease agreement.
   (B)   Impounded vehicles shall be released under the regulations established
by the city’s law enforcement services provider, or by ordinance, for release
and inventory of impounded vehicles, and upon payment of the impound fees and
towing fees.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.130) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018)
§ 71.12 APPOINTEES TO ENFORCE PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor may appoint personnel, under contract with the city, besides the
city’s law enforcement services provider, to enforce this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.140) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018)
§ 71.13 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The county may place signs on all county highways prohibiting, or
restricting, the parking or stopping of vehicles where, in its opinion, such
parking or stopping is dangerous to those using said highways, or would unduly
interfere with the free movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.150)
   (B)   Whenever any officer of the city’s law enforcement services provider
finds a vehicle parked or stopped upon a highway in violation of this chapter,
such officer hereby may move or tow the vehicle, cause the vehicle to be moved
or towed, or require the driver, or other person in charge of the vehicle, to
move the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.160)
   (C)   Officers of the city’s law enforcement services provider shall be
authorized to:
      (1)   Issue citations for violation of this chapter and require the
payment of a fine;
      (2)   Move any vehicle in violation of this chapter at the owner’s
expense; or
      (3)   Use other enforcement actions for parking control.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.170)
(Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018; Ord. 01-2020, passed 1-15-2020; Ord. 16-2020,
passed 5-20-2020)
§ 71.14 PRESUMPTION OF LIABILITY.
   The fact that a vehicle, which is illegally parked or stopped, is registered
in the name of a person shall be sufficient to constitute a rebuttable
presumption that such person was in control of the vehicle at the time of such
parking or stopping.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.180) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018; Ord. 01-2020, passed
1-15-2020; Ord. 16-2020, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 71.15 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice.
      (1)   Notice of violation shall be given by affixing a citation, or other
approved notice, to a conspicuous place on the vehicle, or mailing a copy of
the citation or notice to the registered owner. A written notice of violation
shall be issued to each person alleged to have committed a violation of this
chapter.
      (2)   Each notice of violation shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the person alleged to have committed the
violation;
         (b)   The date, time, and place of the violation;
         (c)   The make of the vehicle and its license number;
         (d)   The fine; and
         (e)   The procedure for paying or contesting the fine.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.190)
   (B)   Response to notice. Any person to whom a notice of a violation has
been issued shall respond within 14 days by:
      (1)   Paying the fine; or
      (2)   Contesting the violation in the manner described in §
71.19.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.200)
(Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018)
§ 71.16 FINES.
   (A)   Fines. Any person who violates this chapter shall be liable for a
civil fine. If the fine is paid within 14 days from the notice of violation, or
if the citation is contested with a Hearing Officer within 14 days, the fine
shall be $50. If the fine is not paid or contested within 14 days, the fine
shall be increased to $100.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.210)
   (B)   Payment of fines. Fines shall be paid to the City Recorder’s office in
such manner as the Mayor shall direct. Fees may be paid by mail, but the risk
that payments may be lost or delayed in the mail shall be on the sender. For
the deadlines imposed by this chapter, the date of payment shall be the date
the City Recorder’s office actually receives payment.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.230)
   (C)   Reduction of fines. If the Hearing Officer finds that a violation
occurred, but one or more mitigating circumstances in this chapter applies, the
Hearing Officer may reduce the fine.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.280)
(Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018)
§ 71.17 DEFAULT.
   If the fine is not paid within 28 days from the date of the notice of
violation; or within five days of a Hearing Officer finding that a violation
did occur; or, within five days of any date agreed upon by a Hearing Officer
for the payment of all, or part, of the fine, the fine shall be deemed to be in
default.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.220) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018; Ord. 01-2020, passed
1-15-2020; Ord. 16-2020, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 71.18 HEARING OFFICER.
   The city, through other ordinances, shall provide for the appointment of an
impartial and unbiased Hearing Officer to conduct hearings under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.240) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018)
§ 71.19 CONTESTING THE VIOLATION.
   (A)   Contesting the violation.
      (1)   Any person who has received a notice of violation issued under this
chapter may contest the alleged violation before the city’s Hearing Officer
within 28 days from the notice of violation. The Hearing Officer shall conduct
an informal civil hearing to determine whether a violation occurred. The notice
of violation shall constitute prima facie evidence that the violation alleged
actually occurred.
      (2)   If the Hearing Officer finds by a preponderance of the evidence
that a violation occurred and no applicable defense exists, the person to whom
the notice of violation was issued shall pay the fine within five days. The
Hearing Officer may, in the interest of justice and on behalf of the city, sign
an agreement setting a different payment deadline or establishing a payment
plan.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.250)
   (B)   Defenses. It shall be a defense to violating this chapter if:
      (1)   At the time of the violation, the vehicle was in the possession of
a third party in violation of the criminal laws of the state;
      (2)   Compliance with this chapter would have presented an imminent, and
irreparable, injury to persons or property; or
      (3)   Such other defenses as approved by the City Attorney’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.270)
(Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018)
§ 71.20 DISMISSAL.
   If the Hearing Officer finds that no violation occurred, or a violation
occurred but one or more defenses in this chapter apply, the Hearing Officer
may dismiss the citation.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.260) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018)
§ 71.21 MITIGATING CIRCUMSTANCES.
   Mitigating circumstances include:
   (A)   At the time and date of the notice of violation, the vehicle was in
the possession of a third party under a written lease agreement, or similar
written agreement;
   (B)   The vehicle was mechanically incapable of being moved;
   (C)   Any traffic markings or signs were not clearly visible or
comprehensible; or
   (D)   Such other mitigating circumstances as approved by the City Attorney’s
office.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.290) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018)
§ 71.22 COLLECTION.
   If a fine imposed under this chapter goes into default, the city may use
such lawful means as are available to collect such fine, with court costs and
attorney’s fees incurred in the collection process.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.300) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018)
§ 71.23 TOWING.
   (A)   Any vehicle that is towed for a violation of this chapter shall be
held and not released until the registered owner pays the reasonable costs of
towing and storage, and any unpaid fines.
   (B)   (1)   If a vehicle has been towed pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter and is being held for the payment of fines and reasonable costs, the
owner may request a hearing to determine the validity of the action taken with
respect to the vehicle.
      (2)   The Hearing Officer may order the release of any vehicle, without
cost to the owner, if the Hearing Officer finds that there is a valid defense
to the violation, or if doing so would be in the interest of justice.
   (C)   If an owner pays the fines and reasonable costs to obtain the release
of the vehicle and then successfully contests the violation, resulting in a
dismissal of the citation under §
71.20, then the city shall refund to the owner the amount of the fine.
   (D)   If an owner pays the fines and reasonable costs to obtain the release
of the vehicle and then successfully contests the violation, resulting in a
reduction of the fine under §
71.16(C), then the city shall refund to the owner the difference between the
full amount of the fine and the reduced amount imposed by the Hearing Officer.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.310) (Ord. 01-2020, passed 1-15-2020; Ord. 16-2020, passed
5-20-2020)
§ 71.24 CIVIL APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person dissatisfied with a decision of a Hearing Officer may
appeal the same within 30 days to a court of law for the purpose of review and
not a trial de novo.
      (2)   The court shall determine that the decision of the Hearing Officer
is valid if it is supported by substantial evidence in the record, and is not
arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.
   (B)   Failure to respond to a notice of violation within the time allowed by
§
71.19(A) shall not be a decision from which an appeal can be taken.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.320) (Ord. 01-2020, passed 1-15-2020; Ord. 16-2020, passed
5-20-2020)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be a Class C misdemeanor for any person, except physicians on
emergency calls or designated emergency vehicles when properly marked or
posted, to park any motor vehicle on any street in violation of posted
restrictions for the street, or unless necessary to avoid interference with
other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a law enforcement agency
representative or traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.090)
   (B)   (1)   Fines and removal. The City Council, by ordinance, shall set
forth penalties for violations of parking restrictions in this chapter.
Penalties imposed can be in the form of fines and/or removal of the vehicle by
the city by towing.
      (2)   Overnight camping. A violation of the overnight camping restriction
in §
71.05 is a Class C misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.120)
   (C)   Violation of §
71.09 is declared to be a Class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided
elsewhere in this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.100)
(Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   There shall be no parking on SR-37 between 3500 W and Midland Drive on
either side of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.060) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 4-18-2018; Ord. 25-2019, passed
7-17-2019; Ord. 01-2020, passed 1-15-2020; Ord. 15-2020, passed 5-6-2020; Ord.
16-2020, passed 5-20-2020; Ord. 27-2020, passed 7-1-2020)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   CEMETERIES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
90.01   Generally
   
90.02   Abatement of weeds; deleterious objects
   
90.03   Nuisances on property
   
90.04   Administrative notices; abatement orders; disposal of nuisance; lien
   
90.05   Graffiti
Noise Pollution
   
90.20   Applicability, purpose, and scope
   
90.21   Definitions
   
90.22   Substantive provisions
   
90.23   Temporary noise, special event permit and fees
   
90.24   Inspection and investigations
   
90.25   Enforcement mechanisms
Hazardous Material Response
   
90.40   Purpose
   
90.41   Definitions
   
90.42   Recovery authorization and procedures
   
90.43   No admission of liability
   
90.44   Action to recover expenses
Abatement, Removal of Abandoned Vehicles, Junk, Refuse, and Debris
   
90.55   Definitions
   
90.56   Maintenance unlawful; exceptions
   
90.57   Enforcement Officer
   
90.58   Service of notice; right to hearing
   
90.59   One notice per season sufficient; proof of service
   
90.60   Hearing
   
90.61   Decision
   
90.62   Itemized statement; preparation and delivery
   
90.63   Failure to make payment; procedure
   
90.64   Expenses; collection
   
90.65   Procedure not exclusive
   
90.66   Prohibited activities
 
   
90.99   Penalty
NUISANCES
§ 90.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Nuisances defined. Whatever is dangerous or deleterious to human life
or health, and whatever renders soil, air, water, or food impure or
unwholesome, is declared to be a NUISANCE and unlawful. It shall be unlawful
for any person either as an owner, agent, or occupant to create, or aid in
creating, or contributing to, or maintaining, a NUISANCE.
   (B)   Author of nuisance. Where a nuisance exists upon property and is the
outgrowth of the usual, natural, or necessary use of the property, the
landlord, or his or her agent, the tenant, or his or her agent, and all other
persons having control of the property on which such nuisance exists shall be
deemed to be the authors thereof and shall be equally liable and responsible.
Where any such nuisance shall arise from the unusual or unnecessary use of such
property, or from the business thereon conducted, then the occupants, and all
other persons contributing to the continuance of such nuisance, shall be deemed
the authors.
   (C)   Declaration of nuisance.
      (1)   Every act or condition made, permitted, allowed, or continued in
violation of division (A) above is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and may be
abated and punished as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   Nuisances include:
         (a)   Befouling water in any spring, stream, well, or water source
supplying water for culinary purposes;
         (b)   Allowing any privy vault or cesspool, or other individual
wastewater disposal system, to become a menace to health or a source of odors
to air or water;
         (c)   Permitting any garbage container to remain on a premises when it
has become unclean and offensive;
         (d)   Allowing vegetable waste, garbage, litter, filth, or refuse of
any nature to accumulate within, or upon, any private alley, yard, or area,
except when it is temporarily deposited for immediate removal;
         (e)   Permitting the accumulation of manure in any stable, stall, feed
yard, yard, or in any other building or area in which any animals are kept;
         (f)   Permitting any slaughterhouse, market, meat shop, stable, feed
yard, or other place or building wherein any animals are slaughtered, kept,
fed, or sold to remain unclean, or in any state or condition detrimental to
health or creating a nuisance because of odors, or in which flies or rodents
breed;
         (g)   Discharging or placing any offensive water, liquid waste, or
refuse of any kind into any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash,
natural watercourse, ditch, canal, or any vacant lot, or which, as the result
of continued discharge, will render the place of discharge offensive or likely
to become so;
         (h)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, suffer, allow, or
permit the admission of fugitive particulate matter from any process, including
any material handling for storage activity, which is in violation of the
fugitive emissions and fugitive dust standards set forth by the State
Department of Environmental Quality;
         (i)   Keeping or collecting any stale or putrid grease or other
offensive matter;
         (j)   Having or permitting upon any premises any fly- or mosquito-
producing condition;
         (k)   Keeping any drinking vessel for public use without providing a
method of decontamination between uses;
         (l)   Permitting or performing any ablutions in, or near, any public
drinking fountain;
         (m)   Failing to furnish any dwelling house, boardinghouse, or
factory, or other place of employment, with such privy vaults, water closets,
sinks, or other facilities as may be required to maintain the same in sanitary
condition;
         (n)   Neglecting, or refusing to discontinue use of, clean out,
disinfect, and fill up all privy vaults and cesspools, or other individual
wastewater disposal systems;
         (o)   Permitting any lot or excavation to become the repository of
stagnant water, or any decaying or offensive substances; and/or
         (p)   Obstructing, or tending to obstruct, or interfering with, or
rendering dangerous for, passage any street or sidewalk, lake, stream, drainage
canal, or basin, or any public park, without first obtaining the written
permission of the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   Enumeration of nuisances. The types of nuisances stated in division
(C) above shall be deemed in addition to, and in no way a limitation of, the
nuisances subject to this chapter.
   (E)   Toilet or sewer facilities. All toilet or sewer facilities shall be
constructed and maintained in accordance with the ordinances of the city. All
such facilities that do not comply with such provisions are hereby declared to
be a nuisance and are subject to abatement as herein prescribed.
   (F)   Restrictions on blocking water.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to permit any
drainage system, canal, ditch, conduit, or other watercourse of any kind or
nature, natural or artificial, to become so obstructed as to cause the water to
back up and overflow therefrom, or to become unsanitary.
      (2)   Maintenance of any such watercourse in such condition shall
constitute a nuisance, and the same shall be subject to abatement.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to use irrigation
water or drainage from property or structures in a manner that harms the
property of adjacent landowners. Such use of water shall be declared to be a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8.06.010) (Ord. 11-2016, passed 6-15-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 ABATEMENT OF WEEDS; DELETERIOUS OBJECTS.
   (A)   Real property to be kept clean. It shall be unlawful for any person
owning or occupying real property to allow weeds to grow or exist on such
property in violation of this subchapter, or not to remove from any such
property any cuttings of such weeds or any refuse, or unsightly or deleterious
objects, after having been given notice from the Code Enforcement Officer as
hereinafter provided.
      (1)   Except that where, due to the size, location, proximity to
buildings, accessibility, or other circumstances regarding certain real
property, a Code Enforcement Officer determines that weeds on such property,
which would otherwise constitute a violation of division (C) below, do not
create a serious nuisance or fire hazard, or that requiring the removal of such
weeds is deemed impractical, a Code Enforcement Officer may:
         (a)   Issue an order permitting the owner to create fire breaks a
minimum of 15 feet in width at locations on the property to be determined by
the Inspector; and/or
         (b)    Exempt the property from the requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   Except where a nature park, natural drainage area, storm drain
basin, or wetland mitigation area is owned or maintained by the city, the
required cutting of weeds and grasses on these properties, as outlined in
division (C) below, is exempt. Adjacent property owners may request the city
mitigate a potential fire hazard that may exist upon these lands, and
thereafter, the Parks & Recreation Director or Public Works Director who works
in conjunction with the Weber County Fire Marshal shall:
         (a)   Ensure that there exists or otherwise create a fire break that
does not exceed 15 feet between the property line and the nature park, natural
drainage area, storm drain basins, or wetland mitigation area for lands that
are actively irrigated. The actual size of the fire break will be determined by
the Parks & Recreation Director or Public Works Director based on site
conditions, proximity to buildings, and other relevant factors.
         (b)   Ensure that there exists or otherwise create a fire break that
does not exceed 30 feet between the property line and the nature parks, natural
drainage areas, storm drain basins, or wetland mitigation areas for lands that
are not irrigated. The actual size of the fire break will be determined by the
Parks & Recreation Director or Public Works Director based on site conditions,
proximity to buildings, and other relevant factors.
   (B)   Weeds defined. WEEDS shall include any vegetation growing in an
uncultivated state, not used for food, fiber, or ornamentation, or any
vegetation commonly referred to as a WEED, or which shall have been designated
a NOXIOUS WEED by the State Department of Agriculture and Foods, and/or the
County Weed Department.
   (C)   Standards of weed control. It is hereby declared that the weeds stated
in division (B) above constitute a nuisance when they:
      (1)   Create a fire hazard, a source of contamination or pollution of the
water, air, or property, a danger to health, a breeding place or habitation for
insects or rodents or other forms of life deleterious to humans, or are
unsightly or deleterious to their surroundings;
      (2)   Have grown to a height greater than 12 inches above ground; and
      (3)   Have covered more than 25% of the property.
(Prior Code, § 8.06.020) (Ord. 11-2016, passed 6-15-2016; Ord. 25-2024, passed
8-7-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 NUISANCES ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definition of nuisance. For the purposes of this section, the term
NUISANCE is defined to mean any condition or use of premises, or of building
exteriors or other structures, located upon any real property which is
deleterious or injurious, noxious, or unsightly, which includes, but is not
limited to, keeping, depositing on, scattering over, or allowing to remain on
the premises any of the following:
      (1)   Lumber, junk, trash, rubbish, litter, or debris;
      (2)   Abandoned, discarded, unused, spent, useless, or worthless objects,
materials, or equipment, such as, but not limited to: furniture, appliances,
and machinery, or parts thereof, cans or containers, used tires, parts of
vehicles, waste plant materials, trimmings, scrap building materials, waste
food products, dead animals, unused or discarded bicycles, or other
recreational vehicles, or parts thereof, scrap metal, waste paper products,
accumulations of dirt, gravel, ashes, or fire remains, or any other waste
materials; and
      (3)   Graffiti, which is visible from a public street.
   (B)   Duty of maintenance of private property. No person owning, leasing,
occupying, or having charge of any premises shall maintain, or keep, any
nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person keep, or maintain, such premises in
a manner causing substantial diminution in the value of the other property in
the neighborhood in which such premises is located.
   (C)   Storage of personal property. Unsheltered storage of wrecked,
inoperable, obsolete, abandoned, stripped, and/or junked vehicles, machinery,
implements, equipment, or personal property of any kind which is no longer
safely usable for the purpose for which it was manufactured, for a period of 30
days or more (except in licensed junkyards) within this municipality, is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the public safety.
      (1)   Property may include, but is not limited to:
         (a)   A vehicle not currently registered or licensed in this state or
another state;
         (b)   A vehicle that is, or has, any of the following conditions: flat
tires; no tires; dismantled, broken, or missing windows, steering wheel, tail
pipe, doors, fenders, bumper, hood, top, or trunk; does not run; or is in a
condition that would result in the vehicle’s failure to pass state safety
inspection pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Act, UCA §§ 41-1a-101 et seq.; except
that boats, RVs, camping, or other trailers, and off-road vehicles are exempt
from the current registration requirement of this section;
         (c)   A vehicle that is, or has been, made inoperable due to a
collision or other event; and
         (d)   A vehicle in a state of being, or having been, wrecked or
dismantled (wholly or partially).
      (2)   Vehicles that are the subject of an in-progress restoration project
need to be kept in a building such as a storage shed or garage.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to antique farm machinery or other
similar items when said items are used for decorative or landscaping purposes.
The items must be placed in an orderly manner and must be maintained free from
weeds, trash, and other unsightly items.
   (D)   Abatement of nuisance by owners. The owner, owners, tenants, lessees,
or occupants of any lot within this city on which such storage, as defined in
division (C) above, is made, and also the owner, owners, or lessees of the
above-described personal property involved in such storage shall jointly and
severally abate such nuisance by its prompt removal into completely-enclosed
and secured buildings to be used for such purposes, or otherwise to remove such
property from the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.06.030) (Ord. 11-2016, passed 6-15-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 ADMINISTRATIVE NOTICES; ABATEMENT ORDERS; DISPOSAL OF NUISANCE; LIEN.
   (A)   Appointment and duties of Code Enforcement Officer.
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to:
         (a)   Perform all functions necessary to enforce the provisions of
this subchapter; and
         (b)   Inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as needed, all
buildings, structures, lots, or places for the purpose of determining whether
such are in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   If the Code Enforcement Officer concludes there exists an
objectionable condition in violation of this subchapter, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall:
         (a)   Ascertain the names of the owners and occupants, and
descriptions of the premises where such objects and conditions exist;
         (b)   Serve notice, in writing, upon the owner or occupant of such
premises, either personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to
the owner and occupant at their last known post office addresses as disclosed
by the records of the County Recorder, or as otherwise ascertained, requiring
such owner or occupant, or both, as the case may be, to eradicate or destroy
and remove the same within such time as the Code Enforcement Officer may
designate, which shall not be less than ten days and no more than 30 days
following the date of service of such notice to correct the objectionable
condition. Notwithstanding the foregoing, where the objectionable condition
consists of, or includes, graffiti, an owner or occupant shall be given not
less than one week, as discussed below in § 90.05, to remove any graffiti,
which is visible from the street, from the property; otherwise the notice
required by this section shall contain a specific statement of the nature of
the violation and generally describe the:
            1.   Premises on which the violation exists;
            2.   Inform the person that in the event he or she fails or
neglects to correct the objectionable condition, the city will impose a fee of
$100 and/or shall correct the objectionable condition;
            3.   Will charge the costs of so correcting the objectionable
condition to the person; and
            4.   If the city is required to collect the costs by court action,
the person will be assessed court costs together with reasonable cost of
correcting the violation against the property as a tax.
         (c)   A notice sent by certified mail shall be deemed received by the
addressee owner three business days following posting in the U.S. mail. In all
cases practicable, the notice shall be sent through the mail with a return
receipt requested. Failure on the part of the addressee to accept delivery or
to sign the return receipt shall not be sufficient to defeat the presumption of
receipt for the otherwise properly-mailed notice, and will be considered an
automatic denial.
         (d)   Only one notification procedure shall be necessary for
continuing violations on the same premises within the same calendar year and
shall be deemed sufficient on any lot or parcel, or property, for the entire
calendar year. The fines associated with the first and subsequent citations are
hereby made a part of the West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule. The West
Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule is hereby adopted by reference.
         (e)   The owner, occupant, or other person having an interest in the
land described in the notice may submit a written request for a hearing
regarding the alleged violations outlined in the notice. If a written request
for hearing is not filed pursuant to §
90.58, the notice of the Code Enforcement Officer shall be final.
   (B)   Failure to comply. If any owner, occupant, or other person having an
interest in the land described in such notice or decision, to whom the notice
was given shall fail or neglect to conform to the requirements thereof relating
to the eradication, destruction, or removal of such weeds, garbage, refuse,
objects, or structures either in whole or part, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall serve a “last attempt” notice with a citation that imposes a $100 fee and
the violator will be given ten days to correct the violation. If, after ten
days, the issue has not been corrected, the city will employ all necessary
assistance to cause such objectionable objects or conditions to be removed or
destroyed by an abatement order as outlined below, at the expense of the city
and collect from owner, occupant, or other person having interest as outlined
in division (C) below. The process to remove objectionable objects or
conditions to be removed or destroyed, is as follows:
      (1)   The city may summarily and without prior notice (except as outlined
in §
90.04(A)(3)(b)) to the owner, occupant, or other person having interest,
proceed to take action to abate the nuisance. Under the City Manager’s
direction, the Code Enforcement Officer shall prepare an abatement order to be
approved by either authority listed below, authorizing city personnel to either
perform such abatement work or to engage a private contractor to perform such
work under the direction of the city. The order shall identify the property and
describe the abatement work to be performed thereon. Administrative abatement
orders shall be obtained by the City Manager, at their discretion and working
with the City Attorney, by either of these options:
         (a)   Order of the Mayor, by authority of §
30.03; or
         (b)   Order of a Justice Court Judge or other applicable judicial
authority.
      (2)   Upon issuance of an abatement order, city personnel or any
authorized private contractor may enter upon the described private property and
perform the work specified in the abatement order in any reasonable manner. If
the owner or occupant eliminates the nuisance before the city performs the
abatement work, the owner or occupant shall still be responsible for the costs
incurred by the city in responding to the owner’s or occupant’s failure to
abate the nuisance in a timely manner.
      (3)   If the owner or occupant refuses to allow entry, or other
conditions exist on the property affecting the city’s ability to enter the
property or otherwise complete the necessary abatement work, the city may seek,
but is not required to seek, such judicial process as it deems necessary to
affect the abatement.
      (4)   Personal property constituting a nuisance under this chapter may be
confiscated as part of the abatement process. The City Manager will adopt rules
and procedures providing for the disposition of such property, including the
disposition of inoperable, unlicensed, or abandoned vehicles and equipment.
   (C)   Itemized statement. The Inspector shall prepare an itemized statement
of all expenses incurred in the removal and destruction of nuisances, and shall
mail a copy thereof to the owner or occupant, or both, or to persons having an
interest in the property, demanding payment within 14 days of the date of
mailing. The notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by registered mail
addressed to the last known address of the property owner, occupant, or person
having an interest in the property.
   (D)   Failure to make payment. In the event the owner, occupant, or person
having an interest in the property fails to make payment of the amount set
forth in the statement to the City Treasurer within the 14 days, the Inspector
either may cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court of law or may refer
the matter to the County Treasurer, as provided in this subchapter.
   (E)   Collection by lawsuit. In the event collection of expenses of
destruction and removal is pursued through the courts, the city shall sue for,
and receive judgment for, all of said expenses of destruction and removal,
together with reasonable attorney’s fees, interest, and court costs, and shall
execute upon such judgment in the manner provided by law.
   (F)   Collection through taxes. In the event that the Code Enforcement
Officer elects to refer the expenses of destruction or removal to the County
Treasurer for inclusion in the tax notice of the property owner, he or she
shall make, in triplicate, an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in
the destruction and removal of the same, and shall deliver the three copies of
the statement to the County Treasurer within 20 days after the completion of
the work of destroying or removing such weeds, refuse, garbage, objects, or
structures. Thereupon, the cost of the work shall be pursued by the County
Treasurer in accordance with the provisions of UCA § 10-11-4, and the
recalcitrant owner shall have such rights, and shall be subject to such powers,
as are thereby granted.
   (G)   Criminal proceeding. The commencement of criminal proceedings for the
purpose of imposing penalties for violations of this chapter shall not be
conditioned upon prior issuance, or the granting, to the defendant of an
opportunity to abate or remove the nuisance. The provisions of this chapter
relating to notice and abatement shall be deemed merely alternative and
additional methods of securing conformity to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.06.040) (Ord. 05-2020, passed 4-1-2020; Ord. 23-2023, passed
11-1-2023; Ord. 26-2023, passed 1-3-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 GRAFFITI.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
      ETCHING. Defacing, damaging, or destroying hard surfaces by means of a
chemical action which uses any caustic cream, gel, liquid, or solution.
      GRAFFITI. Any form of unauthorized printing, writing, spraying,
scratching, affixing, etching, or inscribing on the property of another
regardless of the content or the nature of the material used in the commission
of the act.
      VICTIM. The person whose property is defaced by graffiti and who bears
the expense for removal of the graffiti.
   (B)   Damages under §
90.99(C) include removal costs, repair costs, or replacement costs, whichever
is less.
   (C)   The court shall order an individual convicted under §
90.99(C) to pay restitution to the victim in an amount equal to the costs
incurred by the victim as a result of graffiti.
   (D)   An additional amount of $1,000 in restitution shall be added to
removal costs if the graffiti is positioned on an overpass or an underpass,
requires that traffic be interfered with in order to remove it, or the entity
responsible for the area in which the cleanup is to take place must provide
assistance in order for the removal to take place safely.
   (E)   An individual who voluntarily, at the individual’s own expense, and
with the consent of the property owner, removes graffiti for which the
individual is responsible may be credited for the removal costs against
restitution ordered by a court.
   (F)   Before an authorized government agency may issue a citation or assess
a fine to a victim for the victim’s failure to remove graffiti from the
victim’s property, the agency shall:
      (1)   Provide written notice to the victim, alerting the victim of the
graffiti;
      (2)   Allow the victim one week after the day on which the agency
provides written notice of the graffiti to remove the graffiti; and
      (3)   Provide the victim with a list of resources available to assist the
victim with removal of the graffiti.
   (G)   (1)   After receiving notification of graffiti under division (F)(1)
above, a victim who is unable to remove the graffiti due to physical or
financial hardship may alert the agency that provided notice under division (F)
(1) above of the hardship.
      (2)   If an authorized government agency finds that a victim has
demonstrated that the victim would experience significant hardship in removing
the graffiti, the agency:
         (a)   May not issue a citation or assess a fee to the victim for
failure to remove the graffiti; and
         (b)   Shall provide, or hire, an outside entity to provide the
assistance necessary to remove the graffiti from the victim’s property.
      (3)   An authorized government agency that provides, or hires, an outside
agency to provide assistance under division (G)(2)(b) above may request
reimbursement from a restitution order, under division (C) above, against an
individual who used graffiti to damage the property that the agency removed, or
paid another to remove.
(Prior Code, § 8.06.050) (Ord. 05-2020, passed 4-1-2020)
NOISE POLLUTION
§ 90.20 APPLICABILITY, PURPOSE, AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standards for the
control of noise pollution within the city and to reduce the making, creation,
and sustaining of harmful sound, and to secure, protect, and promote the public
health and safety of the residents of the city.
   (B)   This subchapter applies to sound generated from real property within
the city and applies to all property, equipment, appliances, instruments, and
other sound-emitting devices, as described and regulated herein. This
subchapter has no applicability to any aspect of the employer-employee
relationship concerning health and safety hazards within the confines of a
place of employment.
   (C)   This subchapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul
other rules, regulations, or ordinances, including this city code or state
code. If more stringent requirements concerning noise abatement are contained
in the other rules, regulations, or ordinances, the more stringent regulation
will apply.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.010) (Ord. 27-2016, passed 12-21-2016)
§ 90.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL OR FARM EQUIPMENT OR MACHINERY. Tractors, milking equipment and
storage and cooling facilities, feed-handling equipment, irrigation equipment,
harvesters, choppers, grain drills and planters, tillage tools, scales,
combines, spreaders, sprayers, haying equipment, including balers and cubers,
and any other machinery or equipment used primarily for agricultural purposes;
but does not include vehicles required to be registered with the Motor Vehicle
Division, or vehicles or other equipment used for business purposes other than
farming.
   AMBIENT SOUND. The sound pressure level which represents the summation of
the sound from all the discrete sources affecting a given site at a given time,
exclusive of the source under investigation.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES OR BMPS. Auxiliary operational procedures
implemented by a business or facility that effectively reduce noise levels.
BMPs include, but are not limited to, scheduling of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices or
institutional controls that prevent or reduce noise decibel levels.
   CITY. The city of West Haven.
   COMMERCIAL MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT. Any non-stationary power equipment used for
commercial purposes.
   COMMERCIAL PROPERTY. Real property used, in whole or in part, by the owner
or possessor of the property for a commercial, industrial, retail, or other
business purpose, regardless of the identity of the property owner.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair,
alteration, or similar action.
   CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT. Any mechanical apparatus used in excavation,
construction, or demolition.
   dBA OR A-WEIGHTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels
as measured with a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The unit
for reporting is dBA. Sounds measured with the A-weighting network approximate
the response of human hearing when measuring sounds of low to moderate
intensity.
   DECIBEL. A logarithmic unit used in measuring the magnitude of sound.
DECIBEL is abbreviated dB.
   DEMOLITION. Any dismantling, intentional destruction, or removal of any
right-of-way surfaces, buildings, structures, utilities, or similar properties.
   DWELLING. A building or structure that is intended or designed to be used,
rented, leased, let, or hired out for human habitation.
   DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE. A device used to transform a motor vehicle’s
internal combustion engine into an air compressor for the purpose of braking
without the use of wheel brakes; commonly referred to as JAKE BRAKES,
COMPRESSION BRAKES, or ENGINE BRAKES.
   EMERGENCY POWER GENERATOR. Equipment used to generate electrical power in
the event of an interruption, malfunction, or failure of the electrical power
otherwise supplied by the electrical service provider.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, motorboat, or aircraft authorized to be
used for the transportation of emergency personnel, equipment, and supplies
while responding to, or working, the scene of an emergency.
   EMERGENCY WORK.
      (1)   Work required to restore property to a safe condition following a
disaster or declaration of emergency.
      (2)   Work required to protect persons or property from an imminent
exposure to danger.
      (3)   Work required to protect the public’s health by providing, or
restoring, necessary utility services, which cannot reasonably be done
otherwise during the daytime hours, whether such work is performed by private
or public entities.
   EXHAUST SYSTEM. All components responsible for conducting exhaust gases or
reducing sound from a motor vehicle including, but not limited to, mufflers,
baffles, header pipes, manifolds, air intakes, or any other similar component.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING OR GVWR. The value specified by the manufacturer
as the recommended maximum loaded weight of a single motor vehicle. In cases
where trailers and tractors are separable, the GROSS COMBINATION WEIGHT RATING
(GCWR), which is the value specified by the manufacturer as the recommended
maximum loaded weight of the combination of vehicles, shall be used.
   HEATING, VENTILATION, AND AIR CONDITIONING (HVAC).
      (1)   Any system installed on, or within, a dwelling, facility, building,
or structure for the purpose of providing heating, ventilation, or air
conditioning.
      (2)   HVAC may include furnaces, air exchangers, central air condensing
units, evaporative “swamp” coolers, heat pumps, exhaust fans, and other heating
and cooling equipment.
   IMPULSE SOUND. Sound of short duration, generally less than one second,
especially of high intensity, abrupt onset and rapid decay, and often rapidly
changing spectral composition.
   INDUSTRIAL AREA. Those areas within the boundaries of the city used or
reserved for business, commerce, or trade, or zoned as a highway service zone,
under enabling state legislation or comprehensive local zoning ordinances or
regulations; and including those areas outside the boundaries of the city not
within 8,420 feet of an interstate highway exit, off-ramp, or turnoff as
measured from the nearest point of the beginning or ending of the pavement
widening at the exit from, or entrance to, the main-traveled way that are
reserved for business, commerce, or trade under enabling state legislation or
comprehensive local zoning ordinances or regulations, and are actually used for
commercial or industrial purposes.
   INFRASOUND. Any sound frequency less than, or equal to, 16 Hz.
   LEQ.
      (1)   The average measure of continuous noise that has the equivalent
acoustic energy of the fluctuating signal over the same time period.
      (2)   For the purposes of this subchapter, an LEQ measurement will be
taken for a minimum of two minutes.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the city, or his or her designated representative.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle required to be licensed for on-road use in the
state which is propelled by a motorized power source.
   MUFFLER. A properly-functioning sound dissipative device or system
consisting of a series of chambers, baffle plates, or other mechanical devices
for abating the sound of escaping exhaust gases.
   MULTI-DWELLING UNIT BUILDING. Any building comprising two or more dwelling
units, including, but not limited to, apartments, condominiums, co-ops,
multiple-family houses, townhouses, and attached residences.
   NOISE. Any sound that may be harmful to health.
   OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. Any vehicle not permitted to be licensed for on-road
use in the state which is propelled by an engine.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly, and severally with others:
      (1)   Has legal title to any premises, dwelling, or dwelling unit with,
or without, accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Has charge, care, or control of any premises, dwelling, or dwelling
unit, as legal or equitable owner, agent of the owner, or is an executor,
executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee, or guardian of the estate of
the owner.
   PERSON. Any individual, public or private corporation and its officers,
partnership, association, firm, trustee, executor of an estate, the state or
its departments, institutions, bureaus or agencies thereof, municipal
corporation, county, city, or any legal entity recognized by the law.
   PORTABLE MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT. Non-stationary power equipment used for
personal purposes and property maintenance.
   PUBLIC AREA.
      (1)   Space that is generally open and accessible to people.
      (2)   Roads (including the pavement), public squares, parks, and beaches;
to a limited extent, government buildings which are open to the public, such as
public libraries, parks, and playgrounds; and space jointly used by automobiles
and other vehicles, including bicyclists and pedestrians.
   PUBLIC ASSEMBLY/SPECIAL EVENT. An activity regardless of whether or not a
ticket or payment of any type is required for admission.
   PURE TONE. Any sound that can be distinctly heard as a single pitch or a set
of single pitches.
   RECEIVING PROPERTY. Any adjacent property that is adversely affected by
noise transmitted by the source property.
   REPETITIVE IMPULSE SOUND. Any impulse sound repeated at intervals such that
a sound level meter set at “fast” meter characteristic will show changes in
sound pressure level greater than 10 dBA within one second.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Real property that is occupied as a dwelling of the
property owner or tenant.
   SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT. Any mechanical equipment used for removing snow from
land or building surfaces, including, but not limited to, snow plows, snow
blowers, snow sweepers, and any spreader or applicator employed to apply a snow
or ice melting product.
   SOUND. An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle velocity,
or other physical parameter in a medium with interval forces that cause
compression or rarefaction of the medium.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument that includes a microphone, amplifier, RMS
detector, integrator, or time averager, output meter, and weighing networks
used to measure sound pressure levels.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL.
      (1)   Twenty times the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of the RMS
sound pressure to the reference pressure of 20 micropascals (20 micronewtons
per square meter).
      (2)   The sound pressure level is denoted Lp or SPL and is expressed in
decibels (dB).
   ULTRASOUND. Any sound frequency higher than 20 kHz.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.020) (Ord. 27-2016, passed 12-21-2016)
§ 90.22 SUBSTANTIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   General prohibition of noise. Notwithstanding the specific noise
restrictions in division (F) below, no person shall emit, nor shall any person
cause, allow, permit, or fail to control the emission of any noise source so as
to exceed the maximum allowable sound pressure levels set forth in division (B)
below, Table 1, when measured at the property line of the source over a two
minute (minimum) period of time.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the maximum allowable sound pressure levels
established in Table 1, no person shall emit, nor shall any person cause,
allow, permit, or fail to control the emission of, any stationary, transient,
or mobile noise when measured at the property line of the source so as to
exceed the sound pressure level of either:
         (a)   Ten dBA above the ambient sound pressure level between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.; or
         (b)   Five dBA above the ambient sound pressure level between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following morning.
      (2)   For any source of sound that emits a pure tone, cyclically-varying
sound, or repetitive impulsive sound, the limits set forth in Table 1 shall be
reduced by 5 dBA.
   (B)   Maximum permissible sound pressure level table.
 
Table 1: Maximum Outdoor Sound Pressure Levels (Leq)
            Receiving Property/District
                                  Commercial,
             Residential Area     Agricultural, or     Industrial Area
                                  Public Area
Source       7:00 a.m. 10:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 10:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 10:00 p.m.
Property/    to 10:00  to 7:00    to 10:00  to 7:00    to 10:00  to 7:00 a.m.
District     p.m.      a.m.       p.m.      a.m.       p.m.
Residential  60 dBA    50 dBA     60 dBA    50 dBA     60 dBA    50 dBA
area
Commercial,
agricultural 60 dBA    50 dBA     70 dBA    60 dBA     70 dBA    60 dBA
or public
Industrial   60 dBA    50 dBA     70 dBA    60 dBA     80 dBA    75 dBA
 
   (C)   Sound pressure level measurements.
      (1)   Sound pressure level measurements shall be made with a calibrated
and certified type 2 sound level meter or better instrument as specified in the
American National Standards Institute’s (ANSI) publication SI.4-1983
(Reaffirmed 2001) entitled Specifications for Sound Level Meters, or its
current successor; or the International Electrochemical Commission (IEC) class,
or type 1 and 2 standard 61672.
      (2)   All sound level measurements required by this subchapter shall be
taken in dBA.
   (D)   Infrasound and ultrasound. This subchapter shall not regulate any
sound emitted which is classified as infrasound (below 16 Hz) or ultrasound
(above 20 kHz).
   (E)   Non-sound-based vibrations. The transmission of vibrations that are
not sound based and which cannot be measured by a sound pressure meter are not
restricted by this subchapter.
   (F)   Specific noise restrictions.
      (1)   No person shall operate or use, nor shall any person cause, allow,
permit, or fail to control the operation or use of any commercial refuse
compactor within 300 feet of a residential property between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (2)   No person shall operate nor shall any person cause, allow, permit,
or fail to control the operation of any construction equipment or conduct any
construction or demolition activities:
         (a)   Outside between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the
following morning, unless a waiver has been issued in accordance with §
90.23; or
         (b)   Inside an enclosed structure between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. the following morning if the activities create a sound level that
violates the maximum sound levels in division (B) above, Table 1, at the
property line of the source.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (G)(3) below, no person shall use
fireworks or other explosive devices between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m., unless a permit has been issued in accordance with §
90.23. This provision shall not be construed to permit conduct prohibited by
other statutes, ordinances, or regulations governing such activity.
      (4)   No person shall operate, install, or replace nor permit the
operation, installation, or replacement of any HVAC system installed on, or
within, any commercial or industrial property that exceeds the maximum
allowable sound pressure levels set forth in division (B) above, Table 1, when
measured at the property line of the source.
      (5)   No person shall collect garbage, waste, or refuse, nor shall any
person cause, allow, permit, or fail to control the collection of garbage,
waste, or refuse, within 300 feet of a residential property between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (6)   No person shall load or unload any equipment, vehicle, box, crate,
container, garbage container, or other object or open, close, or otherwise
handle these objects within 300 feet of a residential property between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. so as to create a nuisance.
      (7)   (a)   No person shall operate or use, nor shall any person cause,
allow, permit, or fail to control the operation or use of, any motor vehicle:
            1.   Without a noise control system that meets the original
specifications installed by the manufacturer;
            2.   Unless the noise control system is in constant operation and
free of defects that affect sound reduction;
            3.   With any cutout, bypass, or similar device which increases
sound pressure levels;
            4.   When the noise control system has been modified, punctured, or
rendered inoperative; and
            5.   Unless the noise control system of the motor vehicle, or
combination of vehicles of a type subject to registration, at any time or under
any condition of grade, load, acceleration or deceleration, does not exceed the
maximum allowable sound pressure levels set forth in division (F)(7)(a)5.
below, Table 2, at a distance of 25 feet or more for the category of motor
vehicle, based on the legal speed limit, posted or not, of the road on which
such vehicle or vehicles are operated using testing methods as prescribed by
the city.
 
Table 2: Maximum Sound Pressure Levels for Motor Vehicles
                                                                            Sound Pressure
                                                                             Level, dBA
                                                                                      Speed Speed
                                                                             Measured Limit Limit
                                                                             at a     40    Over
                                                                             Distance mph   40
                                                                             of:      or    mph
                                                                                      Less
Any motor vehicle with a manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR)          88    94
or gross combination weight rating (GCWR) of 10,000 pounds or more, or any   25 ft.   dBA   dBA
combination of vehicles towed by such motor vehicle
Any other motor vehicle, and any combination of motor vehicles, towed by     25 ft.   80    84
such motor vehicle                                                                    dBA   dBA
 
         (b)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person cause, allow,
permit, or fail to control the operation of, any off-highway vehicle or off-
road motorcycle, whether or not duly registered:
            1.   Without a noise control system in constant use and in good
working order so as to prevent emission of excessive or unusual sounds; and
            2.   Between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to one-half
hour before sunrise the next day, unless the activity complies with division
(B) above, Table 1, or the vehicle use is for legitimate agricultural purposes.
         (c)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person cause, allow,
permit, or fail to control the operation of, any motor vehicle to remain in an
idling mode or condition for:
            1.   A consecutive period of two minutes or longer unless specified
by the manufacturer;
            2.   Any period of time while the vehicle is left unattended; or
            3.   So as to cause a noise disturbance.
         (d)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person cause, allow,
permit, or fail to control the operation or use of, any motor vehicle that
emits excessive or unusual noises because of disrepair or mode of operation.
         (e)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person cause, allow,
permit, or fail to control the operation of any motor vehicle with a dynamic
braking device engaged, except for the avoidance of imminent danger.
         (f)   No person shall sound any horn or audible signaling device on
any motor vehicle, except to prevent or avoid an accident. Any advertisement or
solicitation which encourages or requests a person to honk their horn in
violation of this subchapter is expressly prohibited.
         (g)   1.   No person shall cause, allow, permit, or fail to control
the operation or use of any motorcycle manufactured after December 31, 1982,
without its required Motorcycle Noise Emission Control Label on the motorcycle
vehicle itself under 40 C.F.R. § 205.158, and on any motorcycle exhaust system
as required by 40 C.F.R. § 205.169(e)(1)(I). The following is an example of an
EPA Noise Control Label: “This (manufacturer’s name) exhaust system (serial
number) meets EPA Noise Emission Requirements of (noise emission standard) dBA
for the following motorcycles: (list of model-specific codes). Installation of
this exhaust system on motorcycle models not specified may violate federal
law.”
            2.   No person shall deface, or allow any person to deface, any
noise emission control label required by federal law which is affixed to any
motorcycle, or motorcycle part, for purposes of identifying the motorcycle, or
motorcycle part, as a federally regulated product.
            3.   No person shall operate, nor shall any person cause, allow,
permit, or fail to control the operation of, any motorcycle manufactured to
federal noise law standards that does not bear a label or mark on the exhaust
system that matches the model-specific code of the motorcycle vehicle on which
the system is installed.
            4.   No person shall operate, nor shall any person cause, allow,
permit, or fail to control the operation of, any motorcycle identified by the
noise emission control label, or mark as being for “competition use only,” on
any property other than within a motor sports facility for the purpose of
participating in a practice session or racing event.
            5.   No person shall operate, nor shall any person cause, allow,
permit, or fail to control the operation of, any motorcycle fitted with an
exhaust system or exhaust system component identified by the noise emission
control label, or mark as being for “competition motorcycles only,” on any
property other than a motor sports facility for the purpose of participating in
a practice session or racing event.
         (h)   In a residential area, no person shall repair, rebuild, modify,
idle, run, accelerate, or test any motor vehicle, nor any auxiliary equipment
attached to such vehicle, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. In a
commercial or industrial area within 300 feet of a residential property, no
person shall repair, rebuild, modify, idle, run, accelerate, or test any motor
vehicle, nor any auxiliary equipment attached to such vehicle, between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless such activity is conducted within a
fully-enclosed facility, and complies with the conditions set forth in division
(B) above, Table 1.
      (8)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person cause, allow, permit,
or fail to control the operation of, any motorized mechanical sweeper, blower,
or vacuum within 300 feet of a residential property between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (9)   Outdoor use of portable mechanical equipment is restricted between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (10)   Outdoor use of commercial mechanical equipment must comply with
the conditions set forth in division (B) above, Table 1, and is restricted
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (11)   With the exception of declaring an emergency, no person shall
operate or play, nor shall any person cause, allow, permit, or fail to control
the operation or playing of, any personal or commercial sound amplification, or
sound reproduction equipment, or musical instruments, or similar devices in
such a manner:
         (a)   So as to exceed the maximum allowable sound pressure levels set
forth in division (B) above, Table 1, when measured at the property line of the
source;
         (b)   Which emits a plainly audible noise in a public area, or within
the public or private right-of-way at a distance of 50 feet or more in any
direction from the operator, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. The
city may issue permits for public events under §
90.23, which are then exempt from this provision;
         (c)   Which emits a noise which is plainly-audible to any person other
than the operator in a public area, or a public or private right-of-way,
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following morning. The city
may issue permits for public events under §
90.23 which may continue past 10:00 p.m., which are then exempt from this
provision;
         (d)   Which emits a noise which is plainly audible to any person,
other than the operator, when operated on a common carrier by any passenger;
         (e)   The maximum sound pressure level exceeds 95 dBA at a point
normally occupied by a patron on the premises of an entertainment venue, unless
conspicuous and legible written notification is provided to the public prior to
entrance into the venue stating “WARNING: SOUND LEVELS ON THIS PREMISES MAY
CAUSE PERMANENT HEARING DAMAGE. HEARING PROTECTION IS AVAILABLE.” In the
alternative, the above warning may be provided on a sign of a color and
lettering design in high contrast with its background and posted where it is
plainly visible at each public entrance in bold letters of at least one inch in
height. Every venue that may have the potential of exceeding 95 dBA shall have
readily available for public distribution, at a cost not exceeding retail
value, single-use earplugs that have a noise reduction rating (NRR) of at least
20 decibels. This division (F)(11)(e) shall not be construed to permit conduct
prohibited by any other provision of this subchapter; or
         (f)   So as to exceed 100 dBA at any place within an entertainment
venue at any time.
   (G)   Exemptions.
      (1)   In the rare event compliance causes extreme or undue hardship to a
facility, business, or community activity, the city may issue a permit and
allow the activity if the responsible party demonstrates to the city, by
competent evidence, that best management practices are being applied.
      (2)   Noise resulting from a response to any emergency event shall be
exempt from this subchapter, including the use of emergency equipment,
emergency vehicles, emergency relief valves, emergency work, and emergency
power generators which provide emergency power or potable water to any
hospital, health clinic, nursing home, similar facilities, or physician-
prescribed home-based personal medical equipment, or where the loss of
electrical power or potable water poses an immediate risk to the health,
safety, and welfare of any person, or as required by federal or state law,
shall be exempt from this subchapter. During a power failure, other commercial
or personal emergency power generators operating between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. may reach, but not exceed, the maximum daytime sound
pressure levels set forth in division (B) above, Table 1, when measured from
the receiving property.
      (3)   Noise resulting from lawful fireworks shall be exempt from this
subchapter when discharged:
         (a)   By the public:
            1.   Between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on the days
allowed by statute, which include July 1 through July 7 and July 21 through
July 27, except that on July 4 and July 24, the hours are 11:00 a.m. to
midnight;
            2.   Between the hours of 11:00 a.m. December 31 and 1:00 a.m. the
following day, except when New Year’s Eve falls on a Sunday and the local
municipality determines to celebrate New Year’s Eve on the prior Saturday; and
            3.   Between the hours of 11:00 a.m. on Chinese New Year’s Eve and
1:00 a.m. the following day.
         (b)   By a licensed display or special effects operator to conduct a
professional fireworks display:
            1.   Between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.;
            2.   Between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and midnight on the day
officially celebrated as, and including, July 4 and July 24;
            3.   Between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. for a special
event sponsored by a local municipality;
            4.   Between the hours of 11:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m.
the following day; and
            5.   Between the hours of 11:00 a.m. on Chinese New Year’s Eve and
1:00 a.m. of the following day.
      (4)   Noise resulting from the use of farm equipment or off-highway
implements of husbandry for recognized and legitimate agricultural purposes
shall be exempt from this subchapter; provided that:
         (a)   All reasonable efforts have been made to minimize the impact on
the community;
         (b)   The equipment is operating within manufacturer’s specifications;
         (c)   All noise control systems are in constant use, in good working
order, and in compliance with this subchapter;
         (d)   All equipment is in good mechanical working condition so as to
not emit excessive or unusual sounds; and
         (e)   The equipment or activities do not create a nuisance in any land
district.
      (5)   Noise resulting from the use of portable mechanical equipment shall
be exempt from this subchapter between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. so
long as the equipment is in good repair, performs a legitimate service, and is
being used according to the manufacturer’s specifications and does not create a
nuisance.
      (6)   Noise directly resulting from crowd noise associated with a lawful
public assembly shall be exempt from this subchapter.
      (7)   Noise resulting from the operation of a HVAC system used on, or
within, a residential property use, including central air conditioning units,
evaporative coolers, or window cooling units, regardless of the time or
frequency of operation, shall be exempt from this subchapter; provided the
system is in good repair and operating within the manufacturer’s
specifications.
      (8)   Noise resulting from the operation of snow removal equipment shall
be exempt from this subchapter:
         (a)   At any time on any street, avenue, road, boulevard, or highway
when the operation of the snow removal equipment is conducted by a government
entity;
         (b)   At any time for a commercial or industrial property not within
300 feet of a residential dwelling; and
         (c)   For all other properties: Beginning at 4:00 a.m. when snow has
accumulated during the prior 12 hours.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.040) (Ord. 27-2016, passed 12-21-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 TEMPORARY NOISE, SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT AND FEES.
   (A)   The city may issue a permit waiving the requirements and restrictions
of this subchapter on the basis of undue hardship, for good cause shown through
competent evidence, or for a temporary event. The city may establish and
require any reasonable conditions or requirements deemed necessary to minimize
adverse health effects upon a community or the surrounding neighborhood as a
condition to issuing a permit. The city may, but may not be required to, waive
the requirements of this section at its discretion.
   (B)   (1)   To apply for a temporary noise/special event permit, the
applicant shall complete and submit the city-approved application form.
      (2)   A temporary noise/special event permit is valid only at the
location stated in the application and for the length of time approved by the
city on the application.
   (C)   (1)   Upon approval of any temporary noise permit granted by the city,
and unless otherwise required by the city, the applicant shall notify, in
writing, each dwelling and facility located within 800 feet of the event or
activity at least 48 hours in advance of the pending event. The city shall
approve the content of each notice before it is distributed.
      (2)   The notice shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The name of the event or company name;
         (b)   The name of the coordinator or project manager;
         (c)   The contact phone number(s) of the coordinator or project
manager;
         (d)   The name and contact phone number(s) of the on-site manager;
         (e)   The address of the event;
         (f)   The specific date(s) and operating time;
         (g)   A detailed description of the activities; and
         (h)   A brief description of all measures taken to maximize the
abatement of the noise emission (or to minimize the noise emission) by means of
source-reduction practices, best management practices, and best operational
practices.
   (D)   (1)   The city may establish and collect appropriate fees for
licenses, certificates, and permits as set out in this subchapter. The city may
collect appropriate fees as set out in this subchapter for the performance of
services, including plan reviews. If information on a license, certificate, or
permit application changes, the applicant shall notify the city in writing
within 20 calendar days.
      (2)   Any applicant who applies for a temporary noise/special event
permit shall remit to the city a permit fee in the amount set out in the city’s
consolidated fee schedule.
      (3)   The city may waive the temporary noise/special event permit fees
for governmental agencies or departments; provided compliance with all other
requirements of this section are met.
      (4)   If a governmental agency or department approves an activity
otherwise regulated by the city as a temporary noise/special event-permitted
activity, the city may waive the temporary noise/special event permit fee;
provided compliance with all other requirements of this section are met.
   (E)   (1)   The city may impose upon any party subject to this subchapter
penalties and charges for failure to timely pay service and permit fees as set
out in this subchapter or in the city’s consolidated fee schedule. Attorney’s
fees and collection fees may also be applied.
      (2)   An applicant who fails to give at least a ten-day notice to the
city of their intent to obtain a temporary noise/special event permit shall
remit to the city a late notification fee as set out in the city’s consolidated
fee schedule.
   (F)   Any permit applied for, or issued, pursuant to this subchapter may be
denied, suspended, or revoked by the city for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure of the applicant to show that the temporary noise/special
event will be held or operated in accordance with the requirements of this
subchapter;
      (2)   Submission of incorrect, incomplete, or false information in the
application;
      (3)   Failure to pay applicable fees;
      (4)   The temporary noise/special event is in violation of law;
      (5)   Failure of the coordinator, owner, or operator at a temporary
noise/special event to allow the city to conduct inspections as necessary to
determine compliance with this subchapter;
      (6)   Operation of a temporary noise/special event in a way that causes
or creates a hazard to the public health, safety, or welfare;
      (7)   Failure to operate, or maintain the temporary noise/special event
in accordance with the application, report, plans, and specifications approved
by the city; or
      (8)   Failure to comply with any provision of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.050) (Ord. 27-2016, passed 12-21-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   To ensure compliance, the city has the authority to perform
inspections, investigations, reviews, and other actions as necessary.
   (B)   (1)   Upon presenting proper identification, authorized
representatives of the city may enter upon the premises of properties regulated
by the city to perform routine inspections to ensure compliance with rules,
standards, regulations, and ordinances adopted by the city.
      (2)   Inspections of private dwellings are made by consent of the owner
or other party having legal authority, or upon a court order.
      (3)   The city shall require permit holders to allow access for
inspections as part of their permit. Failure to allow access for inspections as
set out in the permit may result in the suspension or revocation of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.060) (Ord. 27-2016, passed 12-21-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 ENFORCEMENT MECHANISMS.
   (A)   If the city has investigated or inspected any property or facility,
and believes the property owner, or other responsible party, is in violation of
this subchapter, or if the city has other reasonable grounds to believe that
there has been a violation of any part of this subchapter, or that the property
owner or otherwise responsible party is not in compliance with this subchapter,
the city may take civil enforcement action as authorized by statute, rule,
ordinance, and regulation, and may also refer the matter for criminal
prosecution. Civil enforcement may involve court or administrative actions
including, but not limited to, revocation of business licenses or conditional
use permits, injunctive actions, and closures, and may involve cost recovery,
penalties, and other remedies. Civil and criminal actions may be brought
simultaneously. A person does not need to be first adjudged liable in a civil
matter before facing criminal charges.
   (B)   The city may initiate criminal prosecution for environmental or noise-
related violations either alone or in conjunction with civil enforcement.
Criminal prosecutions for environmental violations of state or federal law may
be filed by the City Attorney, County Attorney, State Attorney General, United
States Department of Justice, or other enforcement entity with appropriate
jurisdiction. Factors that the city may consider in recommending criminal
enforcement include the following factors, and any other relevant factors:
      (1)   The nature and seriousness of the offense, including the immediacy
of the threat of danger to the life or safety of another, or the harm or
threatened harm to human health or the environment;
      (2)   The degree to which the violation was designed to provide economic
gain or cost avoidance, or involved a pattern of conduct or a common attitude
of illegal conduct;
      (3)   The degree to which the offender is a known violator and has
avoided prior corrective actions requested by the city;
      (4)   The degree to which prosecution might deter future violations;
      (5)   The person’s actual culpability in connection with the offense,
including the presence of criminal intent;
      (6)   The person’s willingness, or unwillingness, to cooperate in the
investigation, including whether the violator has attempted to conceal
evidence;
      (7)   The appropriateness of referring the case to other agencies having
prosecutorial interest; and
      (8)   Possibilities of civil remedies which would be more appropriate
than initiating the criminal justice process.
   (C)   The city may bring an action to restrain, or enjoin, actions in
violation of public health, environmental laws, and other laws, or abate
conditions in violation of such laws.
   (D)   (1)   The city may, at its discretion, issue a notice of violation and
order of compliance (NOV).
      (2)   The city may provide notice to the owner of the property, or
otherwise-responsible person, by sending the NOV via certified mail to the last
known address of the owner of the property, or other responsible person, or
through personal service as provided by the state rules of civil procedure. If
mailed notice is returned undeliverable, the owner of the property, or other
responsible person, may be personally served or be given notice by other
methods reasonably calculated to give actual notice to the owner, or other
responsible party.
      (3)   The NOV shall:
         (a)   Describe the property and the persons believed to be in
violation;
         (b)   Describe the violation;
         (c)   Provide an opportunity for the putative offender to describe
remedial action that will ensure compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter;
         (d)   Set a reasonable time for the performance of any required
remedial action(s);
         (e)   Describe the procedure to contest the NOV and the time limits
for such a contest; and
         (f)   Notify the owner, or other responsible person, that if no
written contest is filed within the time required, the NOV will become final
and un-appealable to any administrative entity or court.
      (4)   As detailed in the NOV, as set out in division (D)(3) above, a
party aggrieved by an NOV may request, in writing, within ten days of the date
of the NOV, a conference with the city official issuing the NOV.
      (5)   (a)   After issuance of the NOV, the alleged violator has the
option to request, and attend, a conference to discuss the NOV and possible
settlement with the city. No Hearing Officer will be present.
         (b)   If the parties agree to a settlement, the city will prepare a
binding settlement agreement, or a stipulation and consent order, which may
require the payment of penalties and the costs of investigation. The parties
may also agree to a settlement at any time subsequent to the conference. After
signing a settlement agreement, or a stipulation and consent order, the parties
waive all rights to further department and court hearings or appeals.
Settlement agreements, or stipulation and consent orders may be enforced in
state courts.
      (6)   Parties aggrieved by an NOV, where the matter was not successfully
resolved at the conference stage, may then request an appeal hearing before the
city’s Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer will be present at these
proceedings and make a written determination based on evidence and testimony
from both parties, who may be represented by legal counsel. The decision of the
Hearing Officer is a final determination for the purposes of further appeal.
      (7)   If a party fails to respond to an NOV within the required time, the
NOV becomes a final order, un-appealable to any administrative entity or court.
The city may then enforce the order in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   (1)   Variances allowed by the city to the requirements of this
subchapter shall be only by written approval and the issuance of a variance
permit, following the same procedure set out in §
90.23. The decision to issue, or not issue, the variance permit shall be made
by the Mayor, or his or her designee.
      (2)   If the Mayor, or his or her designee, finds that an emergency
exists that requires immediate action to protect the public health, he or she
may, without notice or hearing, issue an order declaring the existence of an
emergency, and requiring that action be taken as he or she deems necessary to
meet the emergency. The order shall be effective immediately. Any person to
whom the order is directed shall comply and abate the nuisance immediately, but
may petition the Mayor, or his or her designee, for a hearing in accordance
with the appeal procedures set out above in this section. After the hearing,
and depending upon the findings as to whether the person has complied with the
provisions of this subchapter, the Mayor, or his or her designee, shall
continue the order in effect or modify or revoke it based on relevant findings.
If circumstances warrant because of the seriousness of the hazard, the city may
act to correct or abate the emergency without issuance of an order or
directive, or without waiting for the expiration of compliance time previously
given in an order.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.070) (Ord. 27-2016, passed 12-21-2016)
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL RESPONSE
§ 90.40 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter shall provide procedures for recovering costs incurred by
the city, county, or other local governmental agencies for assistance rendered
in responding to hazardous materials and aggravated fire emergency response
pursuant to UCA § 53-2a-703, and any other applicable provision of law.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.010) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 6-19-2002)
§ 90.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AGGRAVATED FIRE EMERGENCY. One, or more, of the following:
      (1)   A fire proximately caused by the owner or occupier of a property,
or other determined responsible party, which presents a direct and immediate
threat to public safety and requires immediate action to mitigate the threat,
and the fire is either:
         (a)   Caused, or contributed to, by the failure to comply with an
order from any state, city, county, or local agency, department, or official;
or
         (b)   Occurs as a direct result of a deliberate act in violation of
state law, or the ordinances or regulations of the city, county, or other local
agency.
      (2)   A fire that constitutes arson or reckless burning, as defined by
the state code; or
      (3)   An alarm that results in a city, county, or local fire unit being
dispatched, and the person transmitting, or causing the transmission of, the
alarm knows at the time of said transmission that no fire or related emergency
exists.
   EXPENSES. The actual costs of city, county, or local government and
volunteer personnel, including worker’s compensation benefits, fringe benefits,
administrative overhead, costs of equipment, costs of equipment operation, cost
of materials, costs of disposal, and the cost of any contract labor and
materials.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY. A sudden or unexpected release of any
substance that, because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical,
or infectious characteristics, presents a direct or immediate threat to public
safety or the environment, and requires immediate action to mitigate the
threat.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.020) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 6-19-2002)
§ 90.42 RECOVERY AUTHORIZATION AND PROCEDURES.
   The city is hereby empowered to recover expenses incurred by virtue of the
city’s, county’s, or other local governmental agencies’ response to a hazardous
materials emergency or aggravated fire emergency from any person, corporation,
partnership, or other individual or entity whose negligent or intentional act
caused such an emergency, pursuant to the following procedure.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department and/or the County Fire District shall
investigate and submit a report of findings to the City Manager. The City
Manager shall, based upon the report of findings and other available evidence
and information, determine responsibility for the emergency or response, as
defined above, and notify the responsible party by mail of the department’s
determination of responsibility and the expenses to be recovered.
   (B)   The notice shall specify that the determined responsible party may
appeal the City Manager’s decision to the Mayor, who may designate a Hearing
Officer to hear the appeal. Any appeal shall be filed, in writing, with the
City Recorder’s office not more than 30 days from the date of the service of
the notice. The date of service of notice shall be the date of personal
delivery or three days after the date of mailing, as applicable.
   (C)   In the event the determined responsible party appeals the
determination, the Hearing Officer shall hold a hearing to consider any issues
raised by the appeal, at which hearing the appealing party and the Sheriff’s
Department, the County Fire District, and/or other local government shall be
entitled to present evidence in support of their respective positions.
   (D)   After the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall make a recommendation to
the Mayor who shall issue a final decision determining responsibility and
assessing expenses. The Mayor may adopt, modify, or remand the recommendation
of the Hearing Officer for further proceedings. The Mayor may, in the Mayor’s
sole discretion, hear additional evidence prior to issuing the final decision.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.030) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 6-19-2002; Ord. 28-2023, passed
12-6-2023)
§ 90.43 NO ADMISSION OF LIABILITY.
   The payment of expenses determined owing under this subchapter does not
constitute:
   (A)   An admission of liability or negligence in any legal action for
damages; or
   (B)   A criminal fine.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.040) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 6-19-2002)
§ 90.44 ACTION TO RECOVER EXPENSES.
   In the event the party, or parties, determined to be responsible for the
repayment of expenses incurred due to the city’s, county’s, or other local
agencies’ emergency response fail to make payment to the city and/or other
governmental agencies within 30 days after administrative determination of any
appeal to the city, or 30 days from the deadline for appeal in the event no
appeal is filed, the city may initiate legal action to recover from the
determined responsible party the expenses determined to be owing, including the
city’s reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs, and costs of such recovery.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.050) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 6-19-2002)
ABATEMENT, REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES, JUNK, REFUSE, AND DEBRIS
§ 90.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ABATE. To put an end to any condition which is a violation of this
subchapter.
   DELETERIOUS. Anything injurious to the health, safety, or welfare of any
person.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or with others:
      (1)   Has legal title to any premises or dwelling, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Has charge, care, or control of any premises or dwelling, as legal
or equitable owner or lessee, or is an agent of the owner or the estate of the
owner in any manner.
   PREMISES IDENTIFICATION. Numbers or addresses placed on, or assigned to, all
new and existing buildings or lots so as to identify any piece or parcel of
real property from any other piece or parcel without need for a full title
search and legal description.
   REFUSE, DEBRIS, GARBAGE, JUNK. Collectively referred to throughout this
subchapter as JUNK, and includes, but is not limited to, the following: spent,
useless, worthless, or discarded materials; used tires; parts of vehicles; old
and unused machinery and appliances, or parts thereof; trash; rubbish; waste
plant materials, trimmings, weeds, either growing or dead; litter; scrap
building materials; waste food products; dead animals; unused or discarded
bicycles, tricycles, or other types of recreational vehicles or parts thereof;
scrap metal, wastepaper products, or lumber; accumulations of dirt, gravel,
ashes, or fire remains; or any other waste materials.
   WRECKED, INOPERABLE, OBSOLETE OR ABANDONED VEHICLES. Includes, but is not
limited to, the following: A motor vehicle shall be deemed wrecked, inoperable,
obsolete, unused, or abandoned where:
      (1)   The vehicle is designed to be used in demolition driving contests
or similar events;
      (2)   It is a vehicle without proper and current registration;
      (3)   The vehicle is, or has been, made inoperable due to a collision or
other event;
      (4)   It does not bear, or the owner cannot produce for examination, a
current and valid certificate of inspection for the vehicle in question; and
      (5)   If that vehicle has any one of the following characteristics:
         (a)   Is in a state of being, or having been, wrecked, dismantled,
either wholly or partially, or is inoperable for any reason, or has not been
operated for a period of 365 days;
         (b)   Has a broken fender, door, bumper, hood, door handle, steering
wheel, top, trunk handle, or tailpipe; or
         (c)   Which, because of its defective or deleterious condition,
constitutes a threat to public health or safety.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.010) (Ord. 19-2004, passed 9-1-2004)
§ 90.56 MAINTENANCE UNLAWFUL; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Violations; zoning considerations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to cause, or permit,
junked, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, discarded, or abandoned vehicles, and
refuse, debris, garbage, weeds, and junk, as defined herein, to be in, or upon,
any yard, lot, or piece of property within the incorporated limits of the city,
or in or upon any parking space, alley, or sidewalk adjoining such yard, lot,
or piece of property within the city.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person or party to operate, keep, or
maintain any vehicle or junk, as defined in this subchapter, within the
confines and boundaries of the city in any area zoned for residential use. Such
items and operations shall be permitted only where such items and operations
are in conformance with the zoning plan of the city, and then only upon the
obtaining of the necessary and proper business license or permit as may
otherwise be required by the city in this, or any other, chapter or subchapter.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This subchapter shall not apply to antique farm machinery or other
similar items when said items are used for decorative or landscaping purposes.
When so used, however, the items must be placed in an orderly manner and must
be maintained free from weeds, trash, and other unsightly items.
      (2)   This subchapter shall not apply to an item or property, as
described in division (A) above, where that item is otherwise lawfully enclosed
within a building, or from otherwise completely enclosed and surrounded by a
fence not less than six feet in height and of sufficient density and opacity as
to fully, and effectively, visually mask observation of the items. This visual
masking shall be sufficient to ensure that the item is not visible for viewing
from a public or private way, or other public or private property. This
exception applies only in those situations where the enclosed or contained
items do not otherwise endanger or adversely affect the health, safety, or
welfare of the community or its citizens, as herein defined, and where the
keeping of such items does not violate any other law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.020) (Ord. 19-2004, passed 9-1-2004)
§ 90.57 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   Office created; Enforcement Officers. The office of Enforcement
Officer is created for the purpose of administering the provisions of this
subchapter and the powers delegated to the city by the applicable statutes of
the state and ordinance of the city, subject to such control and review as the
Mayor, City Manager, or City Administrator may from time to time direct. The
City Fire Marshal and the Marshal’s assistants, the Manager of Inspection
Services, the City Public Works Inspectors, or any other duly-authorized agents
of the city are authorized to perform the functions of Enforcement Officer for
the abatement of NUISANCES, as defined under §
90.01. The Public Works Director, or the Director’s designee, is also
authorized to perform the functions of Enforcement Officer for nuisances under
§
90.04. The Urban Forester, if appointed, is authorized to perform the functions
of Enforcement Officer for public nuisances under the urban forestry section of
this code, if and when enacted. The Mayor, City Manager, or City Administrator
may assign primary responsibility in those areas of overlapping jurisdiction.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Enforcement Officer is authorized and directed
to inspect and examine real property situated within the city for the purpose
of determining whether or not a nuisance exists as described in §§
90.01 and
90.55. All matters involving health shall be pursued in coordination with the
County Health Department. Nuisances involving weeds or other fire hazards shall
be pursued in coordination with the Fire Department. All matters involving the
boarding of dangerous buildings shall be pursued in coordination with the
Manager of Inspection Services. All matters involving the permitted, or
allowed, use of land under the zoning title shall be pursued in coordination
with the Community Development Director, or the Director’s designee.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.030) (Ord. 19-2004, passed 9-1-2004)
§ 90.58 SERVICE OF NOTICE; RIGHT TO HEARING.
   If the Enforcement Officer concludes that the conditions described in §§
90.01 through
90.03, and
90.05 exist in whole or in part, he or she shall:
   (A)   Ascertain the names of the owners and descriptions of the premises
where such objects and conditions exist;
   (B)   Serve, or cause to be served, notice, in writing, upon the owner and
occupant of such land, either personally or by mailing notice first-class,
postage prepaid, addressed to the owner or occupant at his or her last known
post office address, as disclosed by the records of the County Assessor, return
receipt requested, requiring such owner or occupant, as the case may be, to
eradicate, or destroy and remove or otherwise abate, the nuisance within such
time and manner as the Enforcement Officer may designate, which shall not be
less than ten days from the date of service of such notice;
   (C)   Inform the owner or occupant by means of said notice, or an attached
document, that in the event he or she disagrees with the determination of the
Enforcement Officer and does not wish to abate or remove said objects or
objectionable conditions, he or she may request, in writing, a hearing before
the Mayor, City Manager, or City Administrator, or designee, at a time and
place to be set by the Mayor, City Manager, or City Administrator, or designee.
A written application for a hearing, together with a copy of the notice, must
be filed with the City Recorder ten days from either the date of mailing or the
date of personal service of the notice. Upon receipt of the application for
appeal, the City Recorder shall notify the Enforcement Officer. If a written
request for hearing is not filed within the required ten days, the notice of
the Enforcement Officer shall be final;
   (D)   Failure on the part of the addressee to accept delivery or to sign the
return receipt shall be sufficient to defeat the presumption of receipt for the
otherwise properly-mailed notice; and
   (E)   The notice required in division (B) above shall contain information
advising the affected party that the failure to correct the offending or
noncomplying situation within the specified time period will result in
prosecution for violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.040) (Ord. 19-2004, passed 9-1-2004)
§ 90.59 ONE NOTICE PER SEASON SUFFICIENT; PROOF OF SERVICE.
   One notice shall be deemed sufficient on any lot or parcel of property for
the entire season of weed growth during that year. The Enforcement Officer
shall make proof of service of such notice under oath and file the same in the
office of the County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.050) (Ord. 19-2004, passed 9-1-2004)
§ 90.60 HEARING.
   (A)   Time and place. In the event the owner or occupant makes a request for
a hearing, the Mayor, City Manager, or City Administrator, or designee, shall
set the time and place for hearing his or her objections, and the City Recorder
shall notify the owner or occupant, in writing, of the time and place at which
he or she may appear and be heard. Said hearing shall not be heard within less
than five days from the date of service or mailing of said notice.
   (B)   Procedure; decision. At the written request of the owner or occupant
ordered to remove or abate said weeds, objectionable conditions, or objects
from his or her real property, the Mayor, City Manager, or City Administrator,
or designee, shall conduct an informal hearing (which need not be reported)
wherein said owner or occupant may present such evidence and argument as is
pertinent to the question of whether or not the removal or abatement of said
objects or conditions is properly within the purview of this subchapter. The
Mayor, City Manager, or City Administrator, or designee, shall also permit the
presentation of evidence and argument by the Enforcement Officer and other
interested parties. Thereafter, within not more than ten days, the Mayor, City
Manager, or City Administrator, or designee, shall render its written decision,
a copy of which shall be mailed to or served upon the owner or occupant by the
Enforcement Officer, either personally or by first-class mail, postage prepaid.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.060) (Ord. 19-2004, passed 9-1-2004)
§ 90.61 DECISION.
   (A)   Notification; compliance. In the event the decision of the Mayor, City
Manager, or City Administrator, or designee, upholds the determination of the
Enforcement Officer, the notice originally given by the Enforcement Officer, as
provided in this subchapter, shall be deemed to be sufficient to require the
owner or occupant to remove or abate said objects or conditions, and he or she
shall have up to ten days from the date of notice of the decision within which
to conform thereto. In the event that the decision of the Mayor, City Manager,
or City Administrator, or designee, either overrules or modifies the
determination of the Enforcement Officer, the written decision of the Mayor,
City Manager, or City Administrator, or designee, shall apprise him or her of
that fact and set forth the details and extent to which the owner or occupant
must make removal or other abatement of the said objects or conditions, if any.
The owner or occupant shall be required to conform to the decision of the
Mayor, City Manager, or City Administrator, or designee, within ten days after
service or mailing of a copy of said decision, and said decision shall be
deemed to be the modified decision of the Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Failure to comply; filing of copy with County Treasurer. In the event
of the failure of such owner or occupant to comply with any notice or decision
as described in division (A) above, or a final order as described in §
90.58(C), the Enforcement Officer shall file a copy of said notice or decision,
and proof of service thereof, made under oath, in the office of the County
Treasurer if the costs are to be recovered through inclusion in the tax notice.
   (C)   Failure to comply; inspection action. If any owner or occupant of
lands described in such notice or decision fails, or neglects, to conform to
the requirements thereof relating to the eradication or destruction, or
removal, of weeds, garbage, junk, refuse, objects, or structures, the
Enforcement Officer shall employ all necessary assistance to cause such weeds,
garbage, junk, refuse, objects, or structures to be removed or destroyed, or
otherwise abated, at the expense of the city to the extent that such public
funds are available, subject also to the collection procedures set out in §§
90.62 through
90.64.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.070) (Ord. 19-2004, passed 9-1-2004)
§ 90.62 ITEMIZED STATEMENT; PREPARATION AND DELIVERY.
   The Enforcement Officer shall prepare an itemized statement of all expenses
incurred in the abatement of the conditions described in this subchapter, which
may include a reasonable charge for the administrative costs of abatement, and
shall mail a copy thereof to the owner demanding payment within 20 days of the
date of mailing. Said notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by
registered mail addressed to the property owner’s last known address.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.080) (Ord. 19-2004, passed 9-1-2004)
§ 90.63 FAILURE TO MAKE PAYMENT; PROCEDURE.
   In the event the owner or occupant fails to make payment of the amount set
forth in the statement described in §
90.62 to the City Treasurer within said 20 days, the Enforcement Officer either
may cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court of law, or may refer the
matter to the County Treasurer as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.090) (Ord. 19-2004, passed 9-1-2004)
§ 90.64 EXPENSES; COLLECTION.
   (A)   Lawsuit. In the event collection of expenses of destruction and
removal are pursued through the courts, the city shall sue for, and receive
judgment for, all of said expenses of destruction and removal, together with
reasonable attorney’s fees, interest, and court costs, and shall execute upon
such judgment in the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Taxes. In the event that the Enforcement Officer elects to refer the
expenses to the County Treasurer for inclusion in the tax notice of the
property owner, he or she shall make, in triplicate, an itemized statement of
all expenses incurred in the destruction and removal of the same, and shall
deliver the three copies of said statement to the County Treasurer within ten
days after the completion of the work. Completion of work shall occur when the
Enforcement Officer has received a billing for the work and has verified
completion in accordance with the notice. Thereupon, the costs of said work
shall be pursued by the Country Treasurer in accordance with the provisions of
UCA § 10-11-4, as amended, and the recalcitrant owner shall have such rights,
and shall be subject to such powers, as are thereby granted.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.100) (Ord. 19-2004, passed 9-1-2004)
§ 90.65 PROCEDURE NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The procedure and authority granted by this subchapter shall be in addition
to, and not in lieu of, procedures provided in other ordinances of the city
which have heretofore been, or may hereafter be, enacted to accomplish the same
or related purposes, and no ordinances are repealed by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.110) (Ord. 19-2004, passed 9-1-2004)
§ 90.66 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Causing or permitting nuisance; duty to abate. It shall be unlawful
for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract, or parcel of land to cause, or
permit, any NUISANCE, as defined in §
90.01, and this subchapter to be created or to remain upon such premises; and
it shall be the duty of such owner or occupant to abate and remove any such
nuisance from such premises.
   (B)   Failure to abate. It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant to
fail to abate, within the required time period, any NUISANCE, as defined in §
90.01, after service of notice pursuant §
90.58.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.120) (Ord. 19-2004, passed 9-1-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Any owner, occupant, or person having an interest in the
property subject to §§
90.01 through
90.05 who shall fail to comply with the notice or order given pursuant to §§
90.01 through
90.05 shall be subject to administrative abatement orders and shall be
criminally guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
         (b)   Compliance by any owner, occupant, or person to whom a notice
has been given, as provided in §§
90.01 through
90.05, shall not be admissible in any criminal proceeding to determine guilt of
an offense brought pursuant to §§
90.01 through
90.05.
(Prior Code, § 8.06.040)
      (2)   Except as provided in UCA § 76-6-107, or as modified herein,
graffiti is (as defined in §
90.05) a:
         (a)   Second-degree felony if the damage caused is in excess of
$5,000;
         (b)   Third-degree felony if the damage caused is in excess of $1,000;
         (c)   Class A misdemeanor if the damage caused is equal to, or in
excess of, $300; and
         (d)   Class B misdemeanor if the damage caused is less than $300.
(Prior Code, § 8.06.050)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Any person who is found guilty by a court of violating any
of the provisions of §§
90.20 through
90.25, either by failing to do the acts required herein or by doing a
prohibited act, is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, pursuant to UCA § 26A-1-
123.
         (b)   Each day such violation is committed, or permitted to continue,
shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   (a)   Penalties may be included in a settlement agreement or
stipulation and consent order. Penalties may be assessed according to the
following factors:
            1.   The violator’s history of compliance or non-compliance;
            2.   The violator’s economic benefit of non-compliance;
            3.   The documented costs associated with environmental or health
damage;
            4.   The violator’s degree of willfulness or negligence;
            5.   The violator’s good faith efforts to comply and cooperate; and
            6.   Direct costs incurred by the city in conducting its
investigations, and the total administrative costs and staff time incurred in
the issuance of the NOV.
         (b)   Each day of violation shall be considered a separate violation.
         (c)   Penalties imposed under §§
90.20 through
90.25 shall consider the items set out at division (C)(2)(a)1., but in no case
shall an individual penalty be less than $200 per violation unless reduced by
the Mayor for good cause shown.
      (3)   (a)   The city may recover its inspection, investigative and
abatement expenses and costs from owners or other responsible persons.
         (b)   The city may record a judgment lien on a violator’s property to
recover its expenses and costs.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.080)
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
90.55 through
90.66 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, punishable as provided under
this penalty section. Every day that a violation continues shall be considered
a separate offense and shall be punishable as provided herein.
      (2)   Any person who owns, or occupies, any lot, tract, or parcel of land
and fails to abate within the required time period any nuisance defined in §§
90.55 through
90.56, after service of notice pursuant to §
90.58, shall be liable for a civil penalty in the amount of $100. If abatement
of the same type of nuisance is required by the city a second time within the
same season or calendar year as applicable, the owner or occupant shall be
liable for a civil penalty in the amount of $200. If abatement is required by
the city a third or subsequent time within the same season, the owner or
occupant shall be liable for a civil penalty in the amount of $500.
      (3)   Imposition and collection of such civil penalty shall comply with
the following procedures and standards:
         (a)   If a nuisance remains unabated after the date required under the
notice, or if the city is required to take abatement action within the same
season or calendar year, as applicable, a notice of violation imposing the
civil penalty shall be served in the same manner as required under §
90.58, requiring payment of the penalty within 20 days of the date of the
notice.
         (b)   If the penalty imposed remains unsatisfied after 20 days, the
city may use such lawful means as are available to collect such penalty,
including costs and attorney’s fees.
         (c)   Any person having received a notice imposing a civil penalty may
appear before a Hearing Officer, designated by the Mayor, City Manager, or City
Administrator, by filing a written application for a hearing with the City
Recorder within ten days from either the date of mailing or the date of
personal delivery of the notice, whichever is applicable.
         (d)   The Hearing Officer may dismiss the notice and release the owner
or occupant from liability if any of the following defenses are applicable:
            1.   Notice was not served in compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter;
            2.   The nuisance was abated within the time required for
performance under the notice; or
            3.   At the time of the receipt of the notice of violation,
compliance would have violated the criminal laws of the state.
         (e)   If the Hearing Officer finds that a violation did occur but that
mitigating circumstances exist, the penalty may be reduced after the nuisance
is abated, or, if the city performed the abatement work, after payment to the
city of the costs of abatement. Mitigating circumstances may include:
            1.   If a change in the actual ownership of the property was
recorded with the County Recorder’s office after the first or second notice was
issued and the new owner is not related by blood, marriage, or common ownership
to the prior owner;
            2.   If the violation and inability to cure were both caused by a
force majeure event such as war, act of nature, strike, or civil disturbance
            3.   Compliance with the notice would have presented an imminent
and irreparable injury to persons or property; or
            4.   Such other mitigating circumstances as may be approved by the
City Attorney, or his or her designee.
         (f)   It shall not be a defense that the owner or occupant abated the
nuisance after expiration of the time required for performance under the
notice.
         (g)   Commencement of any action shall not relieve the responsibility
of any person to cure any violation, if still unabated, or to reimburse the
city for expenses incurred in the abatement of such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.120)
(Ord. 19-2004, passed 9-1-2004; Ord. 27-2016, passed 12-21-2016; Ord. 05-2020,
passed 4-1-2020; Ord. 23-2023, passed 11-1-2023)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Purpose
   
91.002   Definitions
   
91.003   Authority of officers
Administration
   
91.015   Animal Control designation
   
91.016   Director
   
91.017   Duties of Animal Control
   
91.018   Interfering with officer prohibited
   
91.019   Animal shelter designated
   
91.020   Rules and restrictions
   
91.021   Fees
Licensing, Regulations of Animals
   
91.035   Limits on the number of dogs and casts per residence
   
91.036   Limits on exotic animals
   
91.037   Limits on animals for family food production
   
91.038   Dog license required and issuance
   
91.039   Dog licenses generally
   
91.040   Dog license exemptions
   
91.041   Basis for adverse action and appeal
   
91.042   Reasonable accommodations for service animals
Animal Boarding Establishments
   
91.055   Animal boarding establishment license; kennel license
   
91.056   Notice of change for animal boarding establishment
   
91.057   Renewal
   
91.058   Animal boarding establishment exemptions
   
91.059   Inspections of an animal boarding establishment
Conduct and Prohibited Acts
   
91.070   Cruelty to animals
   
91.071   Animals at large prohibited
   
91.072   Lost or stray animals
   
91.073   Places prohibited to animals
   
91.074   Restraining animals and leash law
   
91.075   Restraining animals on unenclosed premises
   
91.076   Public right-of-way and property
   
91.077   Animal waste
   
91.078   Nuisance animals
   
91.079   Abatement of nuisance animals
   
91.080   Possession of a potentially dangerous animal
   
91.081   Possession of a dangerous animal
   
91.082   Impounding a potentially dangerous or dangerous animal
   
91.083   Wild animals prohibited
   
91.084   Wild unprotected animals abatement
Impoundment
   
91.095   Impoundment authorized
   
91.096   Shelter record keeping requirements
   
91.097   Redemption requirements
   
91.098   Terms of impoundment, destruction, and disposal of animals
   
91.099   Declaration and disposal of vicious animals
Rabies Control
   
91.110   Animal rabies vaccination requirements
   
91.111   Exceptions for transient animals
   
91.112   Vaccination certification and tags
   
91.113   Impounding animals without valid vaccination tags
   
91.114   Rabid animal reports
   
91.115   Quarantine and disposition of biting or rabid animals
   
91.116   Duty to report animal bite
   
91.117   Duty to report domestic animal involved in accident
 
   
91.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For regulations on animal keeping on property, see §§
157.865 through
157.868
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to provide for
comprehensive uniform animal control regulations to govern the city and protect
life and property. Animal Control service providers and the public is better
served by uniform regulations relating to Animal Control.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter that the city’s Animal Services
Provider administer:
      (1)   The Animal Welfare Act, set forth in UCA §§ 11-46-101 et seq.;
      (2)   The Animal Shelter Pet Sterilization Act, set forth in UCA §§ 11-
46-201 et seq.; and
      (3)   The Community Cat Act, set forth in UCA §§ 11-46-301 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.010) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any and all types of livestock, including all those animals for food
production, dogs and cats, and all other subhuman creatures, both domestic and
wild, male and female, singular and plural.
   ANIMAL BOARDING ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment that takes in animals and
boards them. This definition in inclusive of a kennel, cattery, or related
establishment where three or more dogs or cats are boarded, breed, bought,
sold, adopted, or donated.
   ANIMAL CONTROL. The entity and officers providing animal control services to
the municipality, by contract or otherwise.
   ANIMAL GROOMING ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment maintained for the purpose
of offering cosmetology services for animals.
   ANIMAL KEEPING. The keeping of, and caring for, animals.
   ANIMAL SHELTER OR SHELTER. Any facility owned and operated by a governmental
entity, or an animal welfare organization duly-organized under state law, for
the purpose of preventing cruelty to animals and used for the care and custody
of seized, homeless, quarantined, abandoned, stray, or unwanted dogs, cats, or
other domestic animals.
   ANIMALS AT-LARGE. An animal shall be considered to be AT-LARGE when said
animal is off the owner’s property and not under immediate control by means of
a durable restraint device capable of keeping the animal restrained; or an
animal that is on the property of the owner and not securely confined by a
leash, building, fenced area, or appropriate transport device.
   ANIMALS FOR FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION. Any domesticated animal commonly kept
for utility or food production rather than pleasure, and includes, but is not
limited to: cattle, sheep, goats, mules, burros, horses, chickens, geese,
ducks, turkeys, llamas, swine, bees, or similar animals.
   BITE. Any actual puncture, tear, or abrasion of the skin inflicted by the
teeth of an animal.
   CAT. Any age feline of the domestic type.
   CITY or MUNICIPALITY. The municipal corporate limits of the city.
   COMMUNITY CAT PROGRAM. A feral cat program established in accordance with
UCA §§ 11-46-301 et seq. The same definition, as set forth in UCA § 11-46-302,
is adopted and incorporated herein.
   CORRAL. A fenced enclosure used for the close confinement of large animals,
with hay or grain feeding in contrast to pasture feeding.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal that, according to the records of Animal
Control or another law enforcement/animal control agency:
      (1)   Has inflicted a serious bite or injury on a human being, with or
without provocation, on public or private property;
      (2)   Has killed a domestic animal, with or without provocation, while
off the owner’s property;
      (3)   Has previously been found to be potentially dangerous, as provided
herein, and subsequently aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety
of a human or domestic animal; or
      (4)   Has been found to be in violation of any of the restrictions placed
upon the animal by Animal Control after said animal is determined to be
potentially dangerous.
   DIRECTOR. The person or persons with supervisory authority over the day-to-
day affairs of Animal Control.
   DOG. Any Canis familiaris over four months of age. Any Canis familiaris
under the age of four months is a PUPPY.
   DOMESTICATED ANIMAL. Any animals accustomed to living in, or about, the
habitations of humans that are kept for utility or pleasure, including, but not
limited to, cats, dogs, and animals for family food production.
   ENCLOSURE. As it relates to dogs, means a fence or structure of at least six
feet in height, forming or causing an enclosure suitable to confine a vicious
dog in conjunction with other measures which may be taken by the owner or
keeper, such as tethering the vicious dog.
   EXOTIC PET. A rare or unusual non-protected animal species that is
classified by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and under state law, as
approved for keeping as a pet, unless otherwise restricted by this chapter.
Permitted EXOTIC PETS only include those species commercially available at
typical retail pet shops in the area, and may include, but not limited to: non-
venomous snakes, non-poisonous small reptiles, non-poisonous amphibians,
tortoises, ferrets, exotic birds, sugar gliders, degus, hedgehogs, domesticated
silver foxes, and non-poisonous insects. EXOTIC PETS do not include any types
of pigs, including potbelly pigs or miniature pigs.
   FACILITY MANAGER. The Director, or another manager, of the animal shelter or
impound facility used, or contracted by, the city.
   FERAL CATS. Cats that exist in a wild state and are determined not to have
an owner, and have reverted to a wild state.
   GOVERNMENT WORKING DOG. A dog trained to assist government officials in
public safety or law enforcement.
   GUARD DOG. A working dog which must be kept in a fenced run or other
suitable enclosure during business hours, and on a leash, or under absolute
control, while working so that it cannot come into contact with the public.
   HOLDING FACILITY. Animal impound, animal shelter, humane establishment, or
any other similar facility used for holding animals.
   IMPOUNDED ANIMAL. Any animal taken into custody by the Division, another
governmental entity, or a facility.
   LEASH OR LEAD. Any chain, rope, or device used to restrain an animal.
   LICENSED DOG. A dog wearing its current dog license tag obtained from the
animal services provider designated by the city.
   LIVESTOCK. As defined by state law, and includes the typical domesticated
animals for family food production.
   NEUTERED ANIMAL. An animal having had the testicles removed or castrated.
   OFFICER. An Animal Control Officer, governmental official, law enforcement
officer, or other individual authorized to enforce, or act, within the scope of
this chapter.
   OWNER. Any person who is either the legal owner, keeper, possessor, or the
actual custodian of an animal. Ownership is established by a person registering
as owner on a license or other legal document, or being a person claiming
ownership and taking, or having, possession of an animal.
   PASTURE. A fenced area enclosure for animals in which the grass product
available on the site is the primary source of feed, and in which livestock are
kept in a loosely-controlled environment as opposed to being kept in a pen,
corral, or stable.
   PEN. An enclosed area typically having less than 500 square feet and
intended for occupancy by one to two animals.
   PET. A domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility, including,
but not limited to: birds, cats, dogs, tropical-type fish, rabbits, hamsters,
mice, and similar animals.
   PET SHOPS. A retail business containing cages or exhibition pens, where
dogs, cats, birds, or other pets for sale are kept or displayed. A PET SHOP is
not classified as an animal boarding establishment, kennel, or cattery for the
purposes of this chapter.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal that, with or without provocation,
chases or approaches a person upon the streets, sidewalk, or any public grounds
in a threatening or menacing fashion, or apparent attitude of attack, or any
animal with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack with or
without provocation. In addition, a POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL is any animal
that, because of witnessed and documented action, is believed capable of
causing injury, or otherwise posing a threat, to the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   QUARANTINE. The isolation of an animal under the observation of a licensed
veterinarian, or in the custody of the animal shelter in a substantial
enclosure, so that the animal is not subject to contact with other animals or
unauthorized persons.
   RESIDENCE. Any legally recognized dwelling, such as a home, apartment, or
condominium.
   RESTRAINT DEVICE. Any chain, leash, cord, rope, or other device commonly
used to restrain an animal.
   RIDING SCHOOL OR STABLE. An establishment which offers boarding and/or
riding instruction of any horse, pony, donkey, mule, or burro, or which offers
such animals for hire.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. An animal that is legitimately certified, trained, or being
trained to assist physically challenged persons such as hearing-impaired guide
dogs, mobility-limited assisting animals, or seeing-eye dogs.
   SPAYED. Having had the ovaries and uterus removed or extirpated
(ovariohysterectomy).
   STABLE. A detached accessory building for the keeping of animals belonging
to, or used by, the property owner or lessee, and not for rent or for the
stabling of the same for profit.
   STRAY. Any animal running at large whose owner cannot be found after a
reasonable search, and is governed by UCA § 11-46-103. For livestock, STRAY (or
estray) is more specifically defined as set forth in UCA § 4-25-10, as amended.
   THERAPY PET. A therapeutic pet subject to a reasonable accommodation under
federal or state law relating to persons with a disability as part of mental or
physical health care under the direction of a legitimate mental or physical
health care provider, or as otherwise accommodated by, or being trained for use
in, a care facility, hospital, hospice, or like facility.
   VACCINATED DOG. A dog inoculated with an approved, currently valid, anti-
rabies vaccine, and wearing a current dog license tag indicating proof of such
vaccination.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. A dangerous animal, or potentially dangerous animal, that
presents a continued threat to the safety of a person, property, or another
animal.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which is not commonly domesticated, listed as
protected by federal or state law, or which may be perceived as wild or
predatory in nature, or any animal which, because of its size, growth
propensity, vicious nature, or other characteristics, would constitute an
unreasonable danger to human life or property if not kept, maintained, or
confined in a safe and secure manner. Such animals include, but are not limited
to:
      (1)   Alligators, crocodiles, and caimans;
      (2)   Bears (Ursidae);
      (3)   Cat family (Felidae), except commonly accepted domesticated cats,
includes cheetahs, cougars, leopards, lions, lynx, panthers, mountain lions,
tigers, wild cats, and similar animals;
      (4)   Dog family (Canidae), except all domesticated dogs; includes
wolves, part wolves, foxes, part foxes, coyotes, part coyotes, dingos, and
similar animals;
      (5)   Porcupine (Erethizontidae);
      (6)   Primates (non-human); includes all subhuman primates;
      (7)   Raccoons (Prosynnidae); all raccoons, including eastern raccoons,
desert raccoon ring-tailed cat, and similar animals;
      (8)   Skunks;
      (9)   Venomous fish and piranha;
      (10)   Venomous snakes and lizards; and
      (11)   Weasels (Mustelidae); all including weasels, martens, wolverines,
badgers, otters, ermine, mink, mongoose, and similar animals. This category
does not include ferrets commercially available at typical retail pet shops in
the area.
   WILD UNPROTECTED ANIMALS. A wild animal that is classified by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture as an agriculture nuisance animal, such as raccoons
and skunks.
(Prior Code § 9.02.020) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013; Ord. 39-2019, passed
12-18-2019)
§ 91.003 AUTHORITY OF OFFICERS.
   To perform their duties, any Animal Control Officer or law enforcement
officer is vested with the power and authority in this chapter. An Animal
Control Officer, as a condition of issuance of any license (including a
business license), may enter and inspect the premises of any pet shop, animal
boarding establishment, animal grooming establishment, or other establishment
which has animals in the enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.010) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 91.015 ANIMAL CONTROL DESIGNATION.
   The City Council, upon nomination of the Mayor, may designate the Animal
Control Service Provider for the city to resolve animal-related occurrences
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.010) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.016 DIRECTOR.
   The Animal Control Service Provider shall designate a person to act as the
Director. The Director shall be the contact person for the city and may oversee
one or more Animal Control Officers.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.020) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.017 DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL.
   Animal Control, and any officer of the same, is hereby vested with the power
and authority to carry out the purpose of this chapter, and to:
   (A)   Issue dog licenses;
   (B)   Issue licenses for an animal boarding establishment after receipt of
approval that may be required by the city;
   (C)   Issue citations for violations of this chapter;
   (D)   Issue a determination relating to a potentially dangerous animal or
dangerous animal, apply reasonable restrictions to the same, and monitor such
animal as necessary to protect life and property;
   (E)   Conduct inspections relating to Animal Control;
   (F)   Seek and bring proceedings for the abatement of certain animals as
provided by law or regulation;
   (G)   Apprehend, restrain, impound, and/or quarantine any animal found in
violation of law or that constitutes a nuisance;
   (H)   Advise the city on issues relating to animals;
   (I)   Administer state and local law relating to animals; and
   (J)   Administer the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.030) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.018 INTERFERING WITH OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally interfere with
the Director or any Animal Control Officer in the lawful discharge of duties.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.040) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.019 ANIMAL SHELTER DESIGNATED.
   The city designates the County Animal Shelter as the animal control shelter
and impound facility for the city to provide for suitable premises, facilities,
and supplies where impounded animals can be adequately kept.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.050) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.020 RULES AND RESTRICTIONS.
   Under the direction of the Director, an Animal Control Officer may impose
restrictions on a dangerous animal, or potentially dangerous animal, to protect
the public from the same. The Director is the delegated authority and may
promulgate such rules and regulations necessary and consistent with this
chapter to more fully implement the same. The Director is delegated authority
to promulgate uniform rules and regulations applicable to pet shops, animal
boarding establishments, animal grooming establishments, or similar
establishments for their safe and effective operation.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.060) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.021 FEES.
   The city may adopt its fees by resolution. If the city does not adopt a
specific fee, then the fees adopted for animal service are the same as the most
current fees adopted by the County Commission for the same. Late fees may apply
as specified in the applicable adopted fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.070) (Ord. 09-2003, passed 7-16-2003; Ord. 04-2013, passed
3-6-2013)
LICENSING, REGULATIONS OF ANIMALS
§ 91.035 LIMITS ON THE NUMBER OF DOGS AND CASTS PER RESIDENCE.
   No person or persons at any one residence shall, at any time, own, harbor,
license, or maintain more than three dogs and five cats, except as provided
herein.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.010) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.036 LIMITS ON EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   No person or persons at any one residence shall, at any time, own, harbor,
license, or maintain more than three permitted EXOTIC ANIMALS, as defined in §
91.002.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.020) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.037 LIMITS ON ANIMALS FOR FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION.
   The type and number of animals for family food production that may be kept
is limited and governed exclusively by the city’s land use ordinances and
regulations. It is presumed that if a type of animal is not expressly allowed
as either a permitted or conditional use in a specific land use zone, as
determined by the city’s land use ordinances, then that animal is deemed
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.030) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.038 DOG LICENSE REQUIRED AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, or maintain
a dog over the age of four months of age without registering and obtaining a
license for such dog from Animal Control. All dogs in the city shall require
licensing within 30 days after they enter the city, or within 30 days after
having reached the age of four months.
   (B)   Dog licenses shall be issued based upon:
      (1)   The applicant filing a complete application;
      (2)   The applicant paying the applicable fee;
      (3)   The applicant providing legitimate documentation whether a dog is
spayed or neutered; and
      (4)   The applicant providing proof that the dog has received current
rabies vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.040) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.039 DOG LICENSES GENERALLY.
   Animal Control shall issue a metallic tag for each dog license granted under
this chapter. The dog license is:
   (A)   To be placed and maintained on a dog collar for each dog licensed
under this chapter;
   (B)   Valid for the term provided by Animal Control;
   (C)   Non-transferable from one dog to another; and
   (D)   Non-refundable for any reason whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.050) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.040 DOG LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
   The following license exemptions apply:
   (A)   Dog owners who are non-residents located within the city for less than
30 days; provided that the dog is duly licensed by another agency;
   (B)   Government working dogs; and
   (C)   Individual dogs within a bona fide retail pet shop or veterinary
establishment.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.060) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.041 BASIS FOR ADVERSE ACTION AND APPEAL.
   (A)   A license applied or issued under this chapter may be denied,
suspended, or revoked by determination of Animal Control if:
      (1)   The application filed is found to be incomplete;
      (2)   The applicant failed to pay the required fee;
      (3)   The applicant provided false or misleading information;
      (4)   The applicant violates any land use/condition use permit, animal
control regulation, building code, or zoning ordinance under this, or another,
jurisdiction which relates to the establishment;
      (5)   The applicant is found to be maintaining or selling illegal
species, wild animals, or prohibited animals;
      (6)   The applicant fails an inspection based upon regulations, general
health, or sanitation;
      (7)   The applicant is determined to be a nuisance; and
      (8)   The applicant, owner, or operator is convicted of a charge of
cruelty to animals.
   (B)   The procedure for adverse action is as follows:
      (1)   Animal Control shall provide written notice to the applicant/
licensee at the address on the application, stating:
         (a)   State the nature of the violation(s);
         (b)   Establish a specific and reasonable period of time for
correction of the violation(s);
         (c)   State that any failure to comply with any notice issued under
this chapter shall cause immediate denial, suspension, or revocation; and
         (d)   State that an opportunity for an appeal of a final decision may
be filed with the city’s appeal authority, as provided by law, within ten days.
      (2)   Denial is appropriate for application irregularities;
      (3)   Suspension is appropriate pending the licensee bringing minor
violations into compliance;
      (4)   Revocation is appropriate for continuing violations, serious
illegal activities, and nuisances; and
      (5)   No license shall be issued to any person whose license has been
revoked within the prior 12 months. After the elapse of 12 months, a person may
reapply for a license subject to this chapter.
   (C)   Notice provided for under this chapter is deemed to have been properly
served upon certified mailing of the notice to the address in the application.
   (D)   Appeal hearings shall be conducted under the then-extant city
procedures applicable to the procedure for the appeal authority. Failure to
file an appeal within ten days bars further claim.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.130) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.042 REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR SERVICE ANIMALS.
   The city or Animal Control shall grant any reasonable accommodation for
legitimate service animals from the governing provisions of the municipal code
or applicable local regulations for persons with a disability as prescribed by
state or federal law. Any person that feels they have been issued a final
decision that denies a duly-requested reasonable accommodation may appeal the
final decision of the city or Animal Control to the city’s appeal authority by
filing a written appeal with the city within ten days of issuance of the final
decision.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.140) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
ANIMAL BOARDING ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 91.055 ANIMAL BOARDING ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE; KENNEL LICENSE.
   (A)   An animal boarding establishment (kennel or cattery) must obtain a
license (kennel license) as follows:
      (1)   The applicant shall apply to the city and receive the appropriate
approval;
      (2)   The applicant shall receive any approvals required from the local
Health Department;
      (3)   The applicant shall comply with applicable federal, state, and
local regulations;
      (4)   The applicant shall submit all city and any Health Department
approvals to Animal Control with an application for an animal boarding
establishment license (kennel license);
      (5)   The city shall provide to Animal Control, in writing, the total
number of dogs and/or cats allowed at the animal boarding establishment;
      (6)   Animal Control will perform one or more on-site inspections, and
upon satisfactory inspection, issue an animal boarding establishment license
(kennel license); and
      (7)   The animal boarding establishment license shall also be valid for
one year from purchase.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.070)
   (B)   A license granted to an animal boarding establishment:
      (1)   Shall be kept valid during the operation of the animal boarding
establishment;
      (2)   Shall be posted at the animal boarding establishment in a
conspicuous location on the premises;
      (3)   Is non-transferable to a new business or location; and
      (4)   Does not exempt the animal boarding establishment from having to
obtain individual dog licenses for each dog owned by the establishment.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.080)
(Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.056 NOTICE OF CHANGE FOR ANIMAL BOARDING ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The licensee of an animal boarding establishment shall notify the city
and Animal Control within 30 days of any change of its establishment or
operation which may affect the status of a land use/conditional use permit or
license.
   (B)   The duty to notify, as provided in this section, is on the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.090) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.057 RENEWAL.
   The licensee shall make annual renewal of the animal boarding establishment
licenses according to the rules and regulations of Animal Control. Late fees
will be applied if a renewal is after the established deadline.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.100) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.058 ANIMAL BOARDING ESTABLISHMENT EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are not subject to the animal boarding establishment license
regulations of this chapter:
   (A)   Bona fide research facilities where medical or related research is
conducted under law;
   (B)   Government shelters;
   (C)   Humane shelters operated by a nationally-recognized nonprofit
organization; and
   (D)   Bona fide retail pet shops where the selling of dogs or cats is
ancillary to the retail sales of the establishment.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.110) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.059 INSPECTIONS OF AN ANIMAL BOARDING ESTABLISHMENT.
   As a condition of an animal boarding establishment license, the location of
the establishment is subject to periodic inspections by the city and/or Animal
Control. An animal boarding establishment shall be maintained within general
industry health and sanitation standards, and follow related industry standards
for the operation and maintenance of an animal boarding establishment.
Inspection reports may be filed with Animal Control as necessary.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.120) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
CONDUCT AND PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 91.070 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   The provisions relating to cruelty to animals, as specified in UCA § 76-9-
301, as amended, are adopted and incorporated by this reference.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.010) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.071 ANIMALS AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any animal to run at large, except:
   (A)   Animals may be at large while participating in field trials and
obedience classes;
   (B)   Animals properly controlled by a participant as part of a recognized
dog club;
   (C)   Animals assisting their owner or trainer in legal hunting or in
herding of livestock;
   (D)   Animals assisting a peace officer engaged in law enforcement duties,
or while being trained for the same; and
   (E)   Animals on the owner’s private property, so long as such animals are
under direct and effective sound, or gesture, control and within sight of
owners or such individuals noted above, to assure that such animals violate no
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.020) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.072 LOST OR STRAY ANIMALS.
   (A)   Stray animals shall be governed by UCA § 11-46-103, or its successor
statute. It is unlawful for any person to harbor or keep, within the city, any
lost or strayed animal.
   (B)   Whenever any animal shall be found which appears to be lost or
strayed, it shall be the duty of the finder to notify Animal Control within 72
hours so that the rightful owner may be located, or the animal may be adopted
if no owner claims the animal.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.030) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.073 PLACES PROHIBITED TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Specific places. It shall be unlawful for any person to take or permit
any animals, excluding service animals, government working dogs, or similar
animals, whether on a leash or in the arms of their owners, into any
establishment or place of business where food or food products are sold or
distributed, including, but not limited to, restaurants, grocery stores, meat
markets, and fruit or vegetable stores.
   (B)   Schools. Dogs are prohibited from school premises and from posted
picnic, pond, park, recreation, or play areas. This division (B) does not apply
to service animals, government working dogs, or similar animals used for
educational programs, law enforcement exercises, or authorized events.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.040) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.074 RESTRAINING ANIMALS AND LEASH LAW.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person owning, or having the custody,
possession, or control of, any animal to either negligently, or with specific
intent, improperly restrain, or fence the animal to allow the animal to escape
or to run at large.
   (B)   Dogs must be restrained on a proper leash on the public right-of-way
and in public places.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.050) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.075 RESTRAINING ANIMALS ON UNENCLOSED PREMISES.
   It is unlawful for any person to restrain, confine, pen, chain, stake, or
otherwise tether any animal on an unenclosed premises in a manner that allows
the animal to go beyond the property line, unless permission is obtained from
the owner of the affected property, or the owner of the animal owns a legal
property interest in the affected property.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.060) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.076 PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY AND PROPERTY.
   No animal may be kept on the public right-of-way or public property without
permission from the affected entity. Animals walked on the public right-of-way,
or designated public property, shall be handled on a leash.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.070) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.077 ANIMAL WASTE.
   The person having custody of any animal shall be responsible for the
immediate removal of any waste deposited by his or her animal on any public
right-of-way, public place, recreation area, or private property other than
that belonging to the owner of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.120) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.078 NUISANCE ANIMAL.
   (A)   All persons having custody of any animal or animals shall exercise
proper care and control over such animal or animals to prevent said animal or
animals from becoming a nuisance.
   (B)   An animal shall be deemed a nuisance if such animal:
      (1)   Causes damage to the property of anyone other than its owner;
      (2)   Causes unreasonable odor;
      (3)   Is in unsanitary condition in its being or habitat;
      (4)   Is diseased;
      (5)   Is in heat and uncontrolled;
      (6)   Makes unreasonable barking, whining, howling, or disturbing noises;
      (7)   Chases vehicles, people, or livestock;
      (8)   The animal has previously been found at large by Animal Control on
three separate occasions within a 12-month period;
      (9)   The animal has been declared a potentially dangerous animal or
dangerous animal, and is found at large or found in violation of any animal
control restriction placed on that animal;
      (10)   The animal is a vicious animal; and
      (11)   Severely bites a human or kills another animal unprovoked.
   (C)   Besides other remedies allowed by law, Animal Control may abate a
nuisance animal as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.130) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.079 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   When it reasonably appears to the Director, or his or her designee, that any
animal is a NUISANCE, as defined in §
91.002, Animal Control may, in order to abate:
   (A)   Either relocate or euthanize the animal after obtaining written
consent from the owner;
   (B)   If written consent from the animal owner cannot be readily obtained,
the Director may file a complaint with the local Justice Court seeking
abatement of the animal, which shall include:
      (1)   The facts as determined by Animal Control;
      (2)   Indicate that the owner is maintaining a nuisance animal;
      (3)   State the nature of the nuisance; and
      (4)   State the recommended abatement measure sought by Animal Control.
   (C)   Until abatement can be taken voluntarily or ruled upon by the Court,
the nuisance animal(s) may be impounded by Animal Control. In a Justice Court
proceeding, the Justice Court may:
      (1)   Deny the complaint and rule on the disposition of the animal;
      (2)   Approve the complaint and rule on the method of abatement, along
with any rules and restrictions relating to the same, in the interest of public
health and safety;
      (3)   Abatement by relocation is not a viable option for animal(s) that
bite or are a serious threat, such as a vicious dog; and
      (4)   If the Court determines that the animal is a nuisance, the owner
shall reimburse Animal Control for impoundment fees incurred during the
proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.140) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.080 POSSESSION OF A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   Any person who owns or maintains a potentially dangerous animal shall use
all reasonable means at his or her disposal to restrict a potentially dangerous
animal from injuring any other person or animal. Animal Control may impose
specific restrictions regarding the keeping of potentially dangerous animals.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.150) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.081 POSSESSION OF A DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any dangerous animal may only be kept confined indoors, or in a
secure, fenced kennel-type enclosure that is locked.
   (B)   The secure, fenced kennel-type enclosure must be:
      (1)   Designed to prevent the entry of children;
      (2)   Designed to prevent the animal from escaping;
      (3)   Have secure sides, top, and foundation that prevent burrowing or
digging under; and
      (4)   Provide protection from the elements for the animal.
   (C)   When the dangerous animal is outside its enclosure, the animal must be
under immediate control of a responsible adult with a restraint device and must
also be muzzled. The muzzle shall be made in such a manner that it will not
cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or respiration, but
shall prevent it from biting any person or animal.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.160) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.082 IMPOUNDING A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   Animal Control may impound, and take into immediate possession, any
potentially dangerous or dangerous animal that:
   (A)   Is not maintained as required in this chapter;
   (B)   Is outside an enclosure and not properly restrained by a device, or
not properly muzzled if a dangerous animal; or
   (C)   The animal, or its owner, violates any restriction placed upon the
dangerous animal by Animal Control, or as otherwise authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.170) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.083 WILD ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, barter,
give away, possess, keep, shelter, or purchase any WILD ANIMAL, as defined in §
91.002.
   (B)   This section does not apply to the following facilities:
      (1)   Animal shelters;
      (2)   Zoological parks;
      (3)   Veterinarian hospitals;
      (4)   Bona fide research facilities;
      (5)   Fairgrounds or circuses; and
      (6)   Research facilities for educational or scientific purposes.
   (C)   Every facility controlling or maintaining any wild animal shall:
      (1)   Maintain and keep each wild animal in a manner and with protective
devices that prevent such animals from escaping, or presenting any harm to the
public or persons at the facility;
      (2)   Comply with applicable state and federal regulations for handling,
maintenance, and vaccinations, as directed for each species; and
      (3)   Be kept under confinement on the premises and not run at large.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the forgoing restrictions, this section does not apply
to persons who have sought, and received approval, by the city for raising
animals for their pelts and for legal commercial purposes consistent with the
law.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.180) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.084 WILD UNPROTECTED ANIMALS ABATEMENT.
   Wild, unprotected animals may be abated in a safe and humane manner under
the direction of, or with the assistance of, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.190) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 91.095 IMPOUNDMENT AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Animal Control shall place all animals taken into custody in a
designated animal shelter.
   (B)   Animals may be taken into custody and impounded if:
      (1)   The animal is being kept or maintained contrary to municipal
ordinances;
      (2)   The animal is a stray or running at large;
      (3)   Any dog not properly licensed as required by this chapter;
      (4)   Any dog that is not rabies vaccinated, or believed to not be rabies
vaccinated;
      (5)   Any animal that is sick, diseased, or injured;
      (6)   The animal is abandoned or is neglected where the health and safety
of the animal is at risk if it is not immediately placed into protective
custody;
      (7)   Any animal needing to be held for quarantine;
      (8)   Any animal that is pending a determination of being a potentially
dangerous or dangerous animal, as provided by this chapter;
      (9)   Any animal determined to be a nuisance animal; and
      (10)   Any animal in the custody of any person or persons being arrested
or detained by any law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 9.10.010) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.096 SHELTER RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENTS.
   The animal shelter shall keep a record of each animal impounded as provided
by law, and the rules and regulations adopted by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 9.10.020) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.097 REDEMPTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner of any impounded animal, or his or her authorized
representative, may redeem such animal upon payment of the required fees and
before disposition under the rules and regulations prescribed by the animal
shelter.
   (B)   Redemption fees are calculated to include: impound costs; daily board
charge; any veterinary costs incurred during the impound period; license and
vaccination costs, where needed; transportation costs if specialized equipment
is required, other than the standard patrol vehicles of Animal Control; any
other reasonable expenses incurred as part of the impound of an animal; and any
reasonable restitution for property damage caused by the animal or that occurs
because of the impoundment.
(Prior Code, § 9.10.030) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.098 TERMS OF IMPOUNDMENT, DESTRUCTION, AND DISPOSAL OF ANIMALS.
   The Director is delegated authority to administer the terms of impoundment
substantially as follows, and subject to other rules and regulations of the
animal shelter.
   (A)   Under UCA § 11-46-103, as amended, an animal impounded shall be held
for a minimum of five business days before further disposition.
      (1)   Reasonable effort shall be made to notify the owner of any animal
wearing a license or other identification. Notice shall be deemed given when
sent to the last known address of the listed owner.
      (2)   Any animal voluntarily relinquished to the Animal Control facility
by the owner for destruction or other disposition need not be kept for the
minimum holding period before release or other disposition as provided.
   (B)   All animals, except those quarantined or confined by court order, or
those subject to UCA § 4-25-201, as amended, which are held longer that the
minimum impound period, and all animals voluntarily relinquished to the impound
facility, may be destroyed or disposed of at the order of the Director.
   (C)   Healthy dogs, cats, and small pets may be adopted in compliance with
the adoption policy established by the Director upon payment of any adopt fee.
   (D)   An impounded animal that is diseased, overtly frail, or severely
injured, or is suspected of being diseased, may be destroyed or released to the
case of a licensed veterinarian with or without the consent of the owner, and
regardless of the time limitation established.
   (E)   In special circumstances, an Animal Control Officer may destroy an
animal, upon request of the owner, without transporting the animal to
contracted facilities. Animal Control may require reimbursement for specialized
euthanasia or carcass disposal costs incurred.
(Prior Code, § 9.10.040) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.099 DECLARATION AND DISPOSAL OF VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   If an Animal Control Officer finds an animal to be a vicious animal, the
Officer may immediately:
   (A)   Take possession and impound the animal;
   (B)   Place the animal in a proper quarantine holding facility pending
determination;
   (C)   Seek written consent of the animal’s owner to destroy the animal in a
humane manner;
   (D)   If the animal owner’s consent cannot be readily obtained, seek a court
order to destroy the animal in a humane manner; and/or
   (E)   If the court determines that the animal is a vicious animal, the owner
shall pay the cost of all impoundments fees, disposal fees, or any other fees
that may have been incurred.
(Prior Code, § 9.10.050) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 91.110 ANIMAL RABIES VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All dogs, cats, and other animals susceptible to rabies, for which a
federally approved vaccine is available, shall be vaccinated at four months of
age and again at 15 months of age by a licensed veterinarian or rabies clinic.
Every dog shall be re-vaccinated every 24 and/or 36 months, depending on the
type of vaccination, and every cat re-vaccinated every 36 months. Any
unvaccinated dog or cat over four months of age adopted or brought into the
jurisdiction must be vaccinated. Vaccination protection must be maintained on
dogs, cats, and other animals susceptible to rabies. Evidence of vaccination is
a condition for issuance of a dog license.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.010) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.111 EXCEPTIONS FOR TRANSIENT ANIMALS.
   An animal owned by a person that resides in the city for less than 30 days
is exempt from this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.020) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.112 VACCINATION CERTIFICATION AND TAGS.
   (A)   A veterinarian or rabies clinic provides a certificate of rabies
vaccination for each animal vaccinated, which includes:
      (1)   The owner’s name and address;
      (2)   Description of the animal;
      (3)   Date of vaccination;
      (4)   Rabies vaccination tag number;
      (5)   Type of vaccine administered; and
      (6)   Manufacture’s serial number of vaccine.
   (B)   A copy of the certificate shall be provided to the owner of the
vaccinated animal with a copy retained by the issuing veterinarian or rabies
clinic for the period that the vaccination is current.
   (C)   A metal or durable plastic rabies vaccination tag, serially numbered,
shall be securely attached to the collar or harness of the vaccinated animal.
   (D)   An animal not wearing such a tag is presumed to be unvaccinated and
subject to impoundment.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.030) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.113 IMPOUNDING ANIMALS WITHOUT VALID VACCINATION TAGS.
   (A)   Any vaccinated animal impounded because of a lack of a rabies
vaccination tag may be reclaimed by its owner upon furnishing proof of a rabies
vaccination and payment of impoundment fees.
   (B)   Any unvaccinated animal may be reclaimed prior to disposal by payment
of impound fees and by signing a commitment to obtain rabies vaccination within
14 days of release.
   (C)   Any animal not reclaimed within the prescribed time may be disposed
of, as provided in §
91.098.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.040) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.114 RABID ANIMAL REPORTS.
   Any person having information of an animal known to have been exposed to
rabies, suspected of having rabies, or an animal or person bitten by such a
suspect animal shall immediately notify Animal Control or the Health
Department.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.050) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
§ 91.115 QUARANTINE AND DISPOSITION OF BITING OR RABID ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of any animal that has rabies, or that shows signs
of having rabies, or an animal bitten by another animal that may have rabies,
or that has been exposed to rabies, shall immediately confine the animal in a
secure place and contact Animal Control.
   (B)   Animal Control shall immediately impound and quarantine the suspect
animal for a period of not less than ten days by the Division. The owner of the
animal is responsible for the quarantine costs.
   (C)   Quarantine shall occur at the animal shelter, unless the animal has
current rabies vaccinations or there exist special circumstances justifying an
exception. Regardless, a person who has custody of an animal under quarantine
shall immediately notify the Division if the animal shows any signs of sickness
or abnormal behavior, or if the animal escapes confinement. It is unlawful for
any person who has custody of a quarantined animal to fail or refuse to allow a
health official or Animal Control Officer to make an inspection or examination
of the animal during the period of quarantine. If the animal dies within ten
days from the date of the bite, the person having custody shall immediately
notify Animal Control or the Health Department immediately.
   (D)   If, at the end of the ten-day period, an investigating officer
examines the animal and finds no sign of rabies, the animal may be released to
the owner, or if a stray, be disposed of as provided in §
91.098.
   (E)   (1)   Handling of an unvaccinated animal that may have been exposed to
rabies shall be as follows:
         (a)   Any exposed animal shall be immediately destroyed;
         (b)   If the owner is unwilling to destroy the bitten or exposed
animal, the animal shall be immediately isolated and quarantined for six months
under veterinary supervision, the cost of such confinement to be paid by the
owner; and
         (c)   A quarantined animal may be release when declared free of rabies
by a licensed veterinarian after a minimum six-month quarantine.
      (2)   Handling of a vaccinated animal that may have been exposed to
rabies shall be as follows:
         (a)   If the bitten or exposed animal is vaccinated, as prescribed,
the animal shall be re-vaccinated within 24 hours and quarantined for a period
of 30 days following re-vaccination; or
         (b)   If the animal is not re-vaccinated within 24 hours, the animal
shall be isolated and quarantined under veterinary supervision for six months.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any such animal from the
place of quarantine except under the direction of the Director.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.060) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.116 DUTY TO REPORT ANIMAL BITE.
   (A)   Any person having knowledge of any animal bite on a person or other
animal shall immediately report the incident to Animal Control.
   (B)   To the extent this section does not conflict with HIPPA, a physician,
veterinarian, or other medical personnel who renders treatment to a person
relating to an animal bite shall immediately report the bite to Animal Control.
Information shall include contact information of the person or animal bitten,
and information on the animal that inflicted the bite, along with any other
facts that may assist Animal Control.
   (C)   Any person treating an animal bitten, injured, or mauled by another
animal shall report the incident to Animal Control within 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.070) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.117 DUTY TO REPORT DOMESTIC ANIMAL INVOLVED IN ACCIDENT.
   Any person having knowledge of any automobile accident or other accident
involving a domesticated animal killed or injured has a duty to report the
incident to law enforcement and seek to ascertain and contact the owner of the
domesticated animal if possible.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.080) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise stated, any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall be punished within the
confines of that class as prescribed by laws. Each day a violation continues
shall constitute as a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.020) (Ord. 04-2013, passed 3-6-2013)
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERIES
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Application of state law
   
92.03   Definitions
   
92.04   Name
   
92.05   Office of Cemetery Sexton
   
92.06   Duties and powers of the Sexton
   
92.07   Cemeteries covered
   
92.08   Burial rules and regulations
   
92.09   Monuments; grave markers; structures
   
92.10   Purchase prices and fees
   
92.11   Resale; transfer; inheritance of burial rights
   
92.12   Unused lots; burial rights
   
92.13   Flowers; decorations
   
92.14   Access; conduct
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   To establish a municipal cemetery with its associated policies and
procedures;
   (B)   To regulate the purchase, transfer, and reclaiming of burial rights
within the cemetery;
   (C)   To provide for the orderly record keeping, perpetual care grounds
keeping, and other operational requirements of the cemetery; and
   (D)   To ensure that all aspects of the cemetery are managed in a manner
that will reflect positively on the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.010) (Ord. 14-2017, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 92.02 APPLICATION OF STATE LAW.
   All provisions of the laws regulating cemeteries of the state, not
inconsistent with this chapter, are hereby also accepted as the cemetery laws
and ordinances of the city. This includes, but is not limited to, UCA Title 8,
1953, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.020) (Ord. 14-2017, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 92.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BURIAL RIGHTS. The rights owned by an individual to have buried, in a
specified cemetery lot, a human body, or the remains of the same.
   BURIAL RIGHTS OWNER. The owner of burial rights of any burial lot evidenced
by the certificate of burial right for a described lot, or by proved and
recognized descent or device from the original owner. State law (UCA § 8-5-7)
states that after April 29, 1985, municipalities shall only sell the right to
be buried in a cemetery.
   CEMETERY OR MUNICIPAL CEMETERY. The portion of the city parks specifically
designated as land for the purpose of burials. This area within the park may be
enlarged from time to time, even to include the entire park area, as determined
by the City Council, by recording a plat with the City Recorder’s office.
   CERTIFICATE OF BURIAL RIGHTS. May also be referred to as the DEED which is
issued to the owner of burial rights of each gravesite.
   CITY CEMETERY. The entire area owned by the city located 1575 S to 1450 S,
and 2325 W to 2375 W, or any future acquired ground that may be designated by
the governing body for cemetery purposes, as describe in this chapter.
   LOT. The lots or single graves in the municipal cemetery.
   LOT OWNER. The same as BURIAL RIGHTS OWNER. Even though the common term LOT
OWNER may be used in this, and other, cemetery-related documents, it is meant
to be the owner of the burial rights in a lot, and not the ownership of the
actual property.
   MOW STRIP. The concrete or granite foundation of a monument that extends
beyond the base of the monument.
   NULL GRAVESITE. A grave that is not available for burial of any kind due to
tree placement or any other considerations that render a grave unfit for
burial.
   RESIDENT OF THE CITY. For the purchase of the burial rights, and for the
opening and closing of graves, is an individual who currently resides within
the city. For purposes of this chapter, an individual who resides in the city
at the time of purchase of a certificate of burial rights is one who has a
fixed, permanent home to which the individual, if absent, intends to return;
and temporary purpose, but with the intention of making a permanent home, or
any person that resided in the city immediately prior to being placed in a
health care institution, or any person who owns property in the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.030) (Ord. 14-2017, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 92.04 NAME.
   The designated burial ground of this municipality shall be known by the name
of the city cemetery, or such other name as the governing body of the city may,
from time to time, establish.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.040) (Ord. 14-2017, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 92.05 OFFICE OF CEMETERY SEXTON.
   There is hereby created the Office of Cemetery Sexton. The Cemetery Sexton,
and any Deputy Sexton(s), shall work under the direction of the Director of
Parks and Recreation, and shall be appointed by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.050) (Ord. 14-2017, passed 6-7-2017; Ord. 38-2024, passed
12-18-2024)
§ 92.06 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE SEXTON.
   (A)   The Sexton, subject to the direction of the Director of Parks and
Recreation, who operates under the authority of the City Manager, shall have
entire charge of the cemetery and is authorized to enforce the rules and
regulations pertaining thereto. He or she may take such action as may be
necessary, though not expressly set forth herein, in order to protect the
property of grave and burial rights owners, and the cemetery property itself,
from injury, and to preserve the peace, economy, and good order of the
cemetery.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Sexton to keep the cemetery plat and
related records up to date, and to cooperate with the City Treasurer and
Recorder in maintaining records of charges and payments made pursuant to this
chapter, or to any subsequently adopted and related ordinance.
   (C)   The Sexton, or his or her deputy, shall oversee every interment in the
cemetery and shall register the names and ages of all persons interred therein
and the place of their interment. The Sexton, along with public works staff,
shall open and close graves, maintain the cemetery, and perform such other
duties as may be required elsewhere in this chapter, or as may, from time to
time, be established by the City Manager or the governing body as administered
under the authority of the Director of Parks and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.060) (Ord. 14-2017, passed 6-7-2017; Ord. 38-2024, passed
12-18-2024)
§ 92.07 CEMETERIES COVERED.
   All cemeteries owned and/or maintained by the city, or which may hereafter
be acquired by the city, wherever situated, are hereby declared subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.070) (Ord. 14-2017, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 92.08 BURIAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The rules and regulations governing the cemetery provide for an
orderly, well-groomed, quiet sanctuary. To achieve and maintain that status
requires a joint effort between the cemetery staff and cemetery patrons.
   (B)   Those persons owning rights to burial, and those having deceased loved
ones interred within the cemetery, need to be aware of, and are expected to be
compliant with, the policies that regulate cemetery activities so that no
misunderstandings or problems occur.
      (1)   Burial permit (request for burial form). No body shall be interred,
or remains received, unless a request for burial form is completed in full and
presented to the city at the office of the City Recorder. The request for
burial form shall reflect the full name of the deceased, the date and place of
birth, the date and place of death, and the name and address of the person
requesting the burial.
      (2)   Certificate of “burial rights” (deed) required. It is unlawful for
any person to bury the body of a deceased person in the cemetery without first
obtaining a certificate of burial rights for the lot used, or producing
satisfactory evidence, through legal documentation, of a right to burial based
on a properly acquired/inherited certificate of burial right.
      (3)   Excavating and refilling graves. No grave shall be opened, filled,
refilled, or sod removed or replaced except by the employees of the cemetery
under the direction of the Sexton and Public Works Director.
      (4)   Disinterment/exhumations. The scheduling of disinterment shall be
at the discretion of the Sexton. Absent a court order to the contrary, the
Sexton shall have the right to refuse to disinter any person when, in his or
her sole discretion, such disinterment would endanger the health and safety of
cemetery employees or the public. Disinterment may be postponed without notice
if the Sexton deems it necessary to maintain the regular operation of the
cemetery.
      (5)   Approval of disinterment/exhumations. No person shall disinter any
body buried in such cemetery, unless under the direction of the Sexton, and
before disinterment, the city shall require a permit from the Board of Health
and a written order from the owner of the lot, or the owner’s legal
representative, authorizing such removal, which order the Sexton shall file and
preserve, and all such removals shall be recorded by the Sexton, City Recorder,
or Deputy Recorder. Absent a court order to the contrary, it is unlawful to
remove the body of any person who has died of a contagious disease within two
years from the date of burial, except such body has been buried in a
hermetically sealed coffin.
      (6)   Restriction on burials. It shall be unlawful for any person to bury
the body of a deceased person, within the city limits, except in an approved
cemetery. It is unlawful to inter the remains of anything, other than the
remains of human bodies in the cemetery proper. Pet remains may be buried in a
section of the cemetery designated for such by following specific rules
provided for that section of ground.
      (7)   Hours for burials. Burials are accepted from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
daily at the cemetery. An overtime fee will be assessed for burials after 4:00
p.m. on regularly-scheduled work/weekdays, as well as Fridays, Saturdays, or
holidays as established by the governing body. All graveside services,
interments or exhumations must be arranged through the Sexton, or in his or her
absence, the Public Works Director or City Recorder. A minimum of a 72-hour
advanced notice of service is required. No burials will be accepted on Sunday
or on the holidays of Christmas, Thanksgiving, New Years Day, July 4, July 24,
or Memorial Day weekend (Saturday to Monday).
      (8)   Vaults required. It is unlawful for any person to be buried in the
cemetery unless the casket shall be placed in a vault of concrete or steel,
substantially constructed and covered with similar durable material. No wood
shall be used as a permanent part of the construction of any part of the vault.
All vaults must be buried at a minimum standard depth specified by the city.
Aboveground vaults are not allowed in the cemetery. All vaults must be
preapproved by the city.
      (9)   Burials per grave. It is normal practice to allow only one burial
per space; however, certain double burials will be allowed involving parent/
child burial or cremated remains. A parent/child may be buried in the same
grave space but must be in the same casket. The Sexton or Deputy Sexton must
approve every parent/child burial on an individual basis regarding size and age
of the deceased. The general guideline is that the child must be under two
years of age.
      (10)   Cremation. Cremated remains must be placed in a preapproved urn
vault constructed of concrete, steel, or reinforced polyethylene material. Each
urn vault shall only contain cremated remains of one individual. However,
multiple urns are allowed in a single gravesite under the approval or
discretion of the Sexton or Deputy Sexton.
      (11)   Perpetual care. Cemetery perpetual care will be done, generally,
every Tuesday unless weather or other unforeseen circumstances prevent such
work. The upkeep of the cemetery, provided by the city, includes, but is not
limited to, mowing grass at reasonable intervals, laying sod and reseeding as
necessary, filling sunken graves, sprinkler irrigation, trimming trees and
shrubs, removing wilted flowers and decorations, and other cleanup as needed.
Perpetual care does not include repairing or replacing markers, monuments, or
other personal property.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.080) (Ord. 14-2017, passed 6-7-2017; Ord. 38-2024, passed
12-18-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 MONUMENTS; GRAVE MARKERS; STRUCTURES.
   (A)   General. Monuments shall be installed by private firms. The Sexton
must receive a 72-hour notice of monument installation. Installers are
responsible for all removal of excess debris and for restoring the burial plot
to its original condition. All markers or monuments shall be set in a concrete
or granite foundation at least four inches in depth. The foundations of all
markers or monuments shall extend at four inches past the edge of marker or
monument, and shall be flush with the ground.
   (B)   Monument installation. Monuments are to be installed during regular
business hours and under supervision of the cemetery staff, as designated by
the Sexton. Raised headstones may only be placed in sections A, C, and D.
RAISED HEADSTONES are defined as any marker with any portion raised above
ground level. Section B is a flat headstone section only. The cemetery staff
will measure and indicate where the monuments are to be placed.
   (C)   Monument base preparation. The cemetery staff must supervise all
monument installations and ensure appropriate compaction and elevation
restoration is achieved where slope is, or may reasonably be deemed to be, a
factor.
   (D)   Monument material. Except for veteran markers, all monuments/markers/
headstones shall be made of granite or marble and shall be set in concrete or
granite. All brass or bronze veteran markers will be approved by the Sexton
prior to installation. Raised monuments may also be made of brass if approved
by the Sexton.
   (E)   Monument/foundation dimensions. A single monument cannot exceed 44
inches in length, including the required four-inch mow strip. A double or
triple monument cannot exceed 92 inches in length, including the required four-
inch mow strip. No monument shall exceed 30 inches in width, including the
required four-inch mow strip. No monument shall exceed 42 inches in height. Any
concerns regarding the dimensions of monuments shall be addressed by the
Sexton, who shall see that these standards are observed.
   (F)   Grave/monument orientation. Burial spaces are placed in rows with the
head of the grave at the west and the foot at the east. Individual grave tracts
measure four feet by ten feet long. Traditional burial custom has the wife
placed to the left (north) side of the husband (south). The headstone is placed
at the west.
   (G)   Moving of a monument. Moving of a monument must be approved by the
Sexton. The city reserves the right to require a professional monument company
to conduct the moving of a monument depending on the size of the monument, as
reasonably determined by the Sexton. A monument relocation fee may apply.
   (H)   One monument. Only one monument will be allowed on each gravesite.
However, more than one monument or marker may be allowed on each graveside
under the approval or discretion of the Sexton or Deputy Sexton. No
inappropriate or obscene items or wording will be allowed, as determined at the
sole discretion of the Sexton.
   (I)   Mow strip regulations. Holes for the placement of flower vases are
allowed on the north and/or south mow strips of the monument or headstone. No
holes will be allowed on the east or west of the monument or headstone.
   (J)   Family monuments/null gravesites. Family monuments are permitted in
the cemetery. Family monuments must follow the same standards and regulations
as all other monuments. Before a gravesite can be considered null, a copy of
the “rights of burial” deed must be submitted to the city.
   (K)   Benches and structures.
      (1)   Benches will be placed by the cemetery staff in areas designated by
the Sexton.
      (2)   However, certain headstones that function as benches may be
approved by the Sexton if they meet the standards set forth for all monuments.
      (3)   No other fences, foot markers, curbing, or other structures are
allowed.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.090) (Ord. 14-2017, passed 6-7-2017; Ord. 38-2024, passed
12-18-2024)
§ 92.10 PURCHASE PRICES AND FEES.
   The governing body shall, from time to time, by resolution, fix the size of
lots if it is determined that a size different than herein set out is
appropriate, the price at which burial rights shall be sold, and the fees which
shall be charged for the various cemetery services.
   (A)   Payment and fees. Payments for the opening and closing of graves must
be paid in full prior to a burial. The city reserves the right to work with
mortuaries of its choice for “package deals” involving utilization of cemetery
services.
   (B)   Duplicate certificate.
      (1)   A lost certificate (deed) can be reissued for a small fee, as
determined from time to time by the governing body, and upon filing of an
affidavit of a lost certificate by the applicant for the new certificate.
      (2)   In addition to replacing a lost certificate, a new certificate
(deed) will be issued if a change in ownership, through will or legal
documentation, takes place.
      (3)   In case of change of such ownership, the old certificate (deed)
must be relinquished to the city.
   (C)   Number of lots available for purchase. Purchase of gravesites will be
limited to 12 gravesites per household.
   (D)   The purchase prices and fees regarding those services and burial plots
offered by cemeteries in the city are hereby made a part of the West Haven City
Consolidated Fee Schedule. The West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule is
hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.100) (Ord. 14-2017, passed 6-7-2017; Ord. 26-2023, passed
1-3-2024)
§ 92.11 RESALE; TRANSFER; INHERITANCE OF BURIAL RIGHTS.
   The burial rights sold by the city for lots shall not be further sold or
transferred, except that they may be transferred to legal heirs or resold or
returned to the city. The city may agree to purchase back burial lots at the
original price, or current selling price, whichever is less. Upon death, an
owner of burial rights (deed) shall transfer to legal heirs or someone
determined by the lot owner’s last will and testament, or if the person dies in
intestacy, by act force of law. A person cannot be buried in a lot they do not
own unless signed documentation is presented to the city from the lot owner, or
the lot owner’s heirs or legal representative, giving permission. Lot owners
are required to notify the city of any change of their address or contact
information.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.110) (Ord. 14-2017, passed 6-7-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.12 UNUSED LOTS; BURIAL RIGHTS.
   The city shall have the right to reclaim unused burial rights through any
process authorized by state law. More particularly, gravesites that have been
unused, or otherwise meet the standards and requirements of unused or unkempt
lots, as set out in UCA § 8-5-1, or any future replacement to that section,
shall, upon the city’s compliance with the terms of that section, be subject to
an action for title, as provided by UCA § 8-5-2.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.120) (Ord. 14-2017, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 92.13 FLOWERS; DECORATIONS.
   The following terms and conditions will govern the placement of items
surrounding the headstones/monuments of the cemetery. Cemetery maintenance day
will generally be every Tuesday unless weather, or other unforeseen
circumstances, prevent.
   (A)   The planting of any vegetation is strictly prohibited without
permission from the Sexton. Any plantings without approval will be immediately
removed without notice.
   (B)   Flowers will remain at the graveside for a period of one week from the
time of the burial service. Flowers may remain longer if determined by the
cemetery staff that they hold their value.
   (C)   Plastic flowers may be placed in the cemetery on the grave markers,
but only so as to allow, and not interfere with, routine cemetery maintenance.
Cemetery personnel will remove any plastic flowers that appear unsightly or
cause problems with regular maintenance.
   (D)   Glass containers or decorations are strictly prohibited.
   (E)   Flower containers, decorations, shepherd’s hooks, baskets, toys, pots,
vases, and other decorations are allowed as long as they remain on the four-
inch concrete base (mow strip) on the north and/or south of the headstone/
monument. Any of said items found on the east or west side of the headstone/
monument will be removed promptly without notice if found causing problems with
maintenance or safety of cemetery personnel, as determined in the sole
discretion of the Sexton. Shepherd’s hooks and pinwheels, and other tall items,
are allowed, but are not to exceed 42 inches above the ground. Any items found
higher than the allotted height will need to be removed or modified to fit such
guidelines.
   (F)   Cemetery personnel will remove any items that, in their sole judgment,
appear unsightly or cause problems with regular maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.130) (Ord. 14-2017, passed 6-7-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.14 ACCESS; CONDUCT.
   The cemetery has been dedicated for the burial of the deceased. Any
irreverent behavior or conduct not in keeping with this purpose is expressly
forbidden. Walking, jogging, or bicycling through the cemetery is permitted.
However, skateboarding, rollerblading, and other such activities are not. It is
permissible to walk pets through the cemetery when leashed. Unleashed pets are
strictly prohibited. Fines may be incurred if pets are found unleashed and/or
defecating on cemetery property. Access to the cemetery is restricted to the
hours of 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. daily.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.140) (Ord. 14-2017, passed 6-7-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Establishment
   
93.02   Definition
   
93.03   Regulations and fees
   
93.04   Motor vehicles
   
93.05   Self-propelled vehicles
   
93.06   Certain prohibited activities
   
93.07   Animals
   
93.08   Firearms and explosives
   
93.09   Fire making
   
93.10   Camping
   
93.11   Defacing or destruction of property
   
93.12   Littering
   
93.13   Restroom facilities
   
93.14   Prohibited conduct
   
93.15   Hunting and fishing
   
93.16   Park closing
   
93.17   Concessions
   
93.18   Alcoholic beverages
   
93.19   Park reservations
   
93.20   Eviction from parks
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The governing body of the city may purchase, lay out, establish, operate,
and maintain parks and playgrounds for the benefit of the citizens of the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.010) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995)
§ 93.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   PARK. Real property owned, leased, or controlled by the city and operated
and maintained by the city, and set apart for the use of the general public,
whether developed or undeveloped, and which may be planted with trees, lawns,
and other landscaping, and which may include, within its boundary, facilities
for sport, entertainment, rodeo, posse, equestrian, dancing, recreation,
picnicking, swimming, or is planned for such future use.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.020) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995)
§ 93.03 REGULATIONS AND FEES.
   The City Council may promulgate rules and regulations relating to the city's
park(s) and may amend such rules and regulations from time to time. The City
Council may also adopt and impose fees for the use of parks, park facilities,
and for reserving any such facilities. The City Council has adopted fees
regarding the use of parks, park facilities, and for reserving of any such
facilities. These current fees are hereby made a part of the West Haven City
Consolidated Fee Schedule. The West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule is
hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.030) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995; Ord. 26-2023, passed 1-
3-2024)
§ 93.04 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Speed. It shall be unlawful to operate or drive any motor vehicle
within any park or recreation area at a speed in excess of that speed posted on
the particular road, trail, or pathway within the park.
   (B)   Locations. No motor vehicles may be driven at any place within a park,
other than in those areas specifically designated and posted as allowing such
vehicles. This prohibition shall not apply, however, to motorized or self-
propelled equipment or emergency vehicles used within the park by officers or
employees of the city in the performance of their official duties.
   (C)   Motor vehicles specified and defined. MOTOR VEHICLES include, but are
not limited to, automobiles, trucks, off-road vehicles, motorcycles,
motorbikes, snowmobiles, and any other self-propelled mechanical vehicles.
   (D)   Manner of operation. No motor vehicles, even though operated within
the speed permitted on the places provided for such vehicles, shall be operated
in a careless or reckless manner to such an extent that such use will endanger
the peace, health, and safety of any other person within the park area; nor
shall any vehicle be operated in such a manner as to cause damage to any park
property or facilities.
   (E)   Parking restrictions.
      (1)   The city’s Mayor, or his or her designees (“authorized person”), is
hereby authorized to restrict parking within city parks when necessary to
provide adequate access, unrestricted ingress and egress, and to assure that
available parking within the park is preserved for persons using the park at
any given time.
      (2)   Areas designated for no parking, handicapped parking, limited
parking, or limited time parking shall be designated by signs approved by an
authorized person, and shall give notice of the restrictions required.
      (3)   Overnight parking and/or camping under certain circumstances,
where, in the sole discretion of the Mayor, such use:
         (a)   Will not be deleterious to the main use of the park; and
         (b)   Demonstrates a reasonable public or community purpose, such as,
but not limited to, scout camp outs, community activities, functions which have
been approved or sanctioned by the City Council for use of the park, and the
like.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle to be left unattended or
parked within any area of a city park parking lot where such parking does not
comply with restrictions or requirements posted by the city. Any such vehicle
is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be removed at the direction of the
Mayor, or his or her designee.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle in a parking place for
a period of time longer than the permitted parking time. More than one citation
or notice of infraction may be issued during a period of continuous violation.
(Example: The owner of a motor vehicle left for five continuous hours in a
maximum two-hour parking area may receive two citations or notices of
infraction.)
(Prior Code, § 13.14.040) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995; Ord. 11-2003, passed 8-
20-2003) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 SELF-PROPELLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Self-propelled vehicles specified. SELF-PROPELLED VEHICLES, in
addition to motor vehicles set out above, include, but are not limited to,
bicycles, skateboards, roller skates, roller blades, scooters, and similar
types of vehicles.
   (B)   Manner of operation. No self-propelled vehicle shall be operated in a
careless or reckless manner or to such an extent that it will endanger the
peace or safety of any other person within the park area, nor shall such
vehicle be operated as to cause damage to any park property or facilities.
   (C)   Bicycle parking. Bicycles should be placed in bike racks, or other
designated parking areas, on the exterior of the parks.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.050) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 CERTAIN PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Snowmobiles are not to enter or drive within the park.
   (B)   No golf shall be played or practiced within any park except as part of
classes or programs approved by the city.
   (C)   No ice skating or skiing is allowed except in specific areas which
may, from time to time, be designated by the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.060) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 ANIMALS.
   (A)   Certain animals prohibited. Except as provided herein, no person shall
bring or let loose any of the bovine species, any horse, mule, goat, sheep,
swine, or any animal of any species not ordinarily considered to be
domesticated, at any time within a park.
   (B)   Domestic pet control. No person shall bring or drop off any dog, cat,
or other domestic pet in any park for the purpose of allowing such animal to
urinate or defecate upon the park property. If any domesticated animal deposits
its feces on any park areas, the owner of such animal shall immediately clean
up and remove such feces from the park premises. Patrons attending the park for
any reason shall keep any domesticated pets on a leash during the time such
animals are within the park. Unattended or unlicensed domestic pets found
within any park are subject to pickup by the Animal Control Officer.
   (C)   Animal events.
      (1)   Obedience classes and animal shows may be held in city parks;
provided that the operators of such events apply to the city for a permit to
use the park for such activities. A permit for obedience class or animal shows
may be granted if:
         (a)   A bond is posted to assure proper cleanup of the park area used
for such activities; and
         (b)   A written plan is provided with the permit application
demonstrating the physical means for restraining and confining the animals
involved to the permitted area.
      (2)   Rodeo, posse, and like activities may be conducted from time to
time as approved by the city and may be held in the city rodeo ground or arena,
where such facilities are available within city parks. The city may adopt such
rules and regulations, including bond, insurance, and fee requirements, as it
may deem appropriate to protect the city’s interests and to assist in the
maintenance and repair of such facilities. No person shall hitch or fasten any
animal to any tree, or any other place or structure, on park property. However,
the foregoing not withstanding, horses and mules may be tied or hitched to any
hitching posts or rails installed in the park for use in conjunction with any
rodeo or arena facilities designed and operated to accommodate such animals.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.070) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   No person shall carry or discharge any firearms, firecrackers, rockets,
torpedoes, powders, or any other fireworks or explosives within city parks
except persons who have obtained a special permit from the City Council to put
on a fireworks show, in which event, the person conducting the display shall
first provide the City Council with proof or certification of his or her
training in the use of such pyrotechnics, together with such proof of bond or
insurance as the City Council may require.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.080) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 FIRE MAKING.
   No person shall make or kindle a fire within the park for any purpose unless
such person shall do so in designated areas and at designated times, and then
only where a fireplace or other facility specifically intended to contain a
fire is available.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.090) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 CAMPING.
   No person shall camp or lodge in any park or playground unless a permit
shall first be obtained from the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.100) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 DEFACING OR DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   Except as permitted by the city, no person shall cut, break, remove, injure,
deface, destroy, or disturb any wood, turf, grass, soil, sand, gravel, tree,
shrub, plant, rock, building, sign, fence, bench, or other structure, apparatus
or property; or pluck, pull up, cut, take, or remove any plant or mark, or
write upon any building, sign, fence, or other structure within the park.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.110) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.12 LITTERING.
   No dumping or littering shall be allowed on any city park premises. No
garbage generated outside of the park premises shall be transported to, or
dumped within, the park or within any garbage receptacles belonging to the city
and located within the park. Any garbage generated through use of the park
premises shall be deposited within designated garbage receptacles.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.120) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.13 RESTROOM FACILITIES.
   No person over six years of age shall enter or use any restroom designated
and marked for use by members of the opposite sex in a public park or
playground, except that city personnel may, for maintenance purposes, enter any
restroom.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.130) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.14 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall engage in fighting or indulge in riotous, boisterous,
intoxicated, threatening, promiscuous, or indecent conduct or use any abusive,
threatening, profane, or indecent language in a park.
   (B)   No person shall engage in the slaughtering or dressing of animals,
dumping of wastes, or any activities otherwise prohibited by law in a park.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.140) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.15 HUNTING AND FISHING.
   No person shall hunt animals, birds, or fish in any park.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.150) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 PARK CLOSING.
   City parks, trails, and pathways shall not be used or occupied between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., except by special permission of the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.160) (Ord. 05-2013, passed 3-6-2013) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 CONCESSIONS.
   No person may sell food, drinks, or other items in a park, except as may be
permitted by special contract or permit approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.170) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   No person shall consume or sell any alcoholic beverage within a city park.
No person shall have possession of any alcoholic beverage within a city park.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.180) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 PARK RESERVATIONS.
   (A)   Certain facilities and areas, including any rodeo or arena areas,
within the city parks, as designated by the city, may be reserved by any adult
person upon payment of the required fee, as such fees may be established from
time to time by the City Council.
   (B)   Said reservations shall be made through the city’s Mayor, or his or
her designee, and shall be made in conformance with reservation policies
adopted and amended from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.190) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995)
§ 93.20 EVICTION FROM PARKS.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or any
instructions, rules, or signs established by the city relating to city parks,
may forthwith be evicted from the park by any law enforcement officer, the
Mayor of the city, or his or her designee (“authorized person”).
(Prior Code, § 13.14.200) (Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who fails or refuses to leave upon the order of such
authorized person shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.200)
   (B)   Unless specifically provided, any person violating any of the
restrictions, rules, or prohibitions as set forth herein shall be guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor, punishable by fine, imprisonment, or both as prescribed by
the applicable statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.210)
(Ord. 5-95, passed 4-19-1995)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   SIDEWALK VENDORS
      
111.   RESIDENTIAL SOLICITATION
      
112.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
113.   TOBACCO SALE, CONSUMPTION
      
114.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS
      
115.   DELIVERY SERVICES
CHAPTER 110: SIDEWALK VENDORS
Section
   
110.01   General requirements
   
110.02   Definition
   
110.03   License required
   
110.04   Fee
   
110.05   Insurance
   
110.06   Application and approval process
   
110.07   Cart standards
   
110.08   Prohibited activities
   
110.09   Impoundment
   
110.10   Suspension, revocation, or denial
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Approved cart. All sidewalk vendors are required to conduct their
business from an approved cart.
   (B)   Location specified. Each fixed location license shall specify the
location where the cart is approved to be operated. No operation shall occur at
locations other than the approved site. A mobile vendor license shall be valid
at any location within the boundaries specified on the permit.
   (C)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation will be from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00
p.m. No carts shall remain on the sidewalk except during the above hours of
operation.
   (D)   Separation distances. All carts shall maintain the following
separation distances and shall be so located as to not constitute an
obstruction to pedestrians, and to allow the maximum number of carts in the
immediate vicinity:
      (1)   Ten feet from a building entrance;
      (2)   Ten feet from a fire hydrant;
      (3)   Twenty feet along a curb from an intersection or driveway; and/or
      (4)   Two feet from the abutting property line.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.060) (Ord. 21-2004, passed 9-15-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK VENDOR. Any person licensed under this chapter who sells, or offers
to sell, food, nonalcoholic beverages, balloons, cut flowers, caps, T-shirts,
souvenirs, or handmade crafts on a public sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.010) (Ord. 21-2004, passed 9-15-2004)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to display, offer for
sale, or sell any retail goods on a public sidewalk or in, or on, an area
adjacent to, or contained within, a city park or other city property without
having first complied with the provisions of this chapter and without having
first obtained a business license as a sidewalk vendor. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to sales or displays allowed by §
110.07.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.020) (Ord. 21-2004, passed 9-15-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 FEE.
   The license fee for sidewalk vending shall be as prescribed in the
consolidated fee ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.030) (Ord. 21-2004, passed 9-15-2004)
§ 110.05 INSURANCE.
   The applicant shall agree to hold the city and its employees and agents
harmless, and to indemnify and defend the city, its employees, and agents
against all claims, liability, loss, damage, or expense, including attorney’s
fees, resulting from the activities of the licensee upon public sidewalks. The
applicant shall maintain a commercial general liability insurance policy with
minimum limits of liability of $500,000 per occurrence for bodily injury,
personal inquiry, and property damage. Any deductible or self-insured retention
must be declared to, and approved by, the city. A current certificate of
insurance must be kept on file with the City Recorder verifying continuing
coverage and naming the city as an additional insured. The certificate shall
provide 30 days’ written notice to the city upon cancellation, nonrenewal, or
material change in the policy.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.040) (Ord. 21-2004, passed 9-15-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Information required. Applications for a sidewalk vending license
shall be on forms provided by the city. The application shall include the
following information:
      (1)   The name and mailing address of the applicant;
      (2)   Whether the applicant is to operate a fixed or mobile cart;
      (3)   A description of all products to be sold;
      (4)   A valid copy of applicable health permits required by federal,
state, or local authorities;
      (5)   A description of the cart to be used in conducting business,
including scaled drawings or a photograph and proposed colors, including
signage, to be used;
      (6)   The number of carts proposed to be operated;
      (7)   List of all persons or employees operating the vending unit or
preparing food to be sold from the vending unit, and proof of a current food
handler’s permit; and
      (8)   Any other information as the Business License Coordinator deems
necessary to enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Departments; review. All applications for sidewalk vending shall be
referred to the City Planning Division, the County Health Department, Fire
Department, Police Department, and Inspection Services Division for review and
compliance with applicable codes and ordinances. After review and
recommendation, the application shall be referred to the Mayor, or the Mayor’s
designee, for approval.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.050) (Ord. 21-2004, passed 9-15-2004)
§ 110.07 CART STANDARDS.
   (A)   Size. A cart shall not be larger than four feet wide, nine feet long,
and four feet high measured from the sidewalk. Canopies, umbrellas, or awnings
attached to the cart shall be permitted; provided that there is a minimum of
seven feet vertical clearance to the sidewalk, the shading device does not
extend more than two feet from the edge of the cart in any direction, and does
not exceed a height of eight and one-half feet measured from the sidewalk. The
space between the four-foot maximum cart height and the seven-foot canopy or
awning minimum clearance shall remain open except for transparent material used
for siding.
   (B)   Signage. Only business signs painted directly on the cart or canopy
advertising the items being sold from the cart shall be permitted. Signage
shall not extend above the opaque sides of the cart or hang below the awnings
of the cart.
   (C)   Product display. All displays, products, and accessory items shall be
contained within the cart. No product or accessory items shall be attached to
the side or awning of the cart. No product or display shall be higher than four
feet above the ground, except:
      (1)   Transparent devices used to prepare food, for example, popcorn
machines and hot dog warmers, which may not exceed seven feet in height
measured from the sidewalk; and
      (2)   Helium-filled balloons, whose display shall not exceed eight and
one-half feet above the sidewalk.
   (D)   Construction. Carts shall be constructed of wood, washable plastic,
fiberglass, or noncorrosive metal. All carts shall be painted. All carts shall
be designed to be movable by one person and shall have a minimum of two rubber,
or rubber-like, wheels as part of the cart for ease of movement.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.070) (Ord. 21-2004, passed 9-15-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No sidewalk vendor shall:
   (A)   Leave any cart unattended;
   (B)   Store, park, or leave any cart beyond the hours of operation on any
street or sidewalk;
   (C)   Sell from other than the approved location;
   (D)   Conduct sales at times other than herein permitted;
   (E)   Leave any location without first picking up, removing, and disposing
of all trash and refuse remaining within a 15-foot radius. Each vendor shall be
responsible for maintaining a 15-foot radius around the cart clean of any trash
or refuse;
   (F)   Solicit from, or conduct business with, any persons in motor vehicles
located within any traffic lane on a public street;
   (G)   Use any noise making or sound producing device that calls attention to
its operation;
   (H)   Unreasonably interfere with, or obstruct the free flow of, pedestrian
traffic or access to businesses; and/or
   (I)   Violate any federal, state, or local ordinance, statute, or
regulation.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.080) (Ord. 21-2004, passed 9-15-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Placement or operation of any street vending cart in violation of the
provisions of this chapter is declared to be a public nuisance. The Police
Department may cause the removal of any cart found on a public sidewalk in
violation of this chapter and is authorized to store such cart until the owner
shall redeem it by paying the reasonable removal and storage charges.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.090) (Ord. 21-2004, passed 9-15-2004)
§ 110.10 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, OR DENIAL.
   Denials, suspensions, or revocations shall be handled in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this chapter, or its successor.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.100) (Ord. 21-2004, passed 9-15-2004)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
to be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.110) (Ord. 21-2004, passed 9-15-2004)
CHAPTER 111: RESIDENTIAL SOLICITATION
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   No other city license or approval required
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Exemptions
   
111.05   Solicitation prohibited
   
111.06   Registration of solicitors
   
111.07   Application form
   
111.08   Written disclosures
   
111.09   When registration begins
   
111.10   Issuance of certificates
   
111.11   Form of certificate and identification badge
   
111.12   Maintenance of registry
   
111.13   Non-transferability of certificates
   
111.14   Denial, suspension, or revocation of a certificate of registration
   
111.15   Appeal
   
111.16   Deceptive soliciting practices prohibited
   
111.17   “No Soliciting” notice
   
111.18   Duties of solicitors
   
111.19   Time of day restrictions
   
111.20   Buyer’s right to cancel
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Residents of the city have an inalienable interest in their personal
safety, well-being, and privacy in their residences, as well as their ability
to provide or receive information regarding matters of personal belief,
political or charitable activities, and goods and services lawfully in
commerce. The city has a substantial interest in protecting the well-being,
tranquility, personal safety, and privacy of its citizens, which includes the
ability to protect citizens from unwanted intrusions upon residential property.
The city also has a substantial interest in protecting citizens from fraud or
otherwise unfair consumer sales practices, as well as criminal activity.
   (B)   There must be a balance between these substantial interests of the
city and its citizens, and the effect of the regulations in this chapter on the
rights of those who are regulated. Based on the collective experiences of city
officials derived from regulating business activity, protecting persons and
property from criminal conduct, responding to the inquiries of citizens
regarding door-to-door solicitation, the experience of its law enforcement
officers, and those affected by door-to-door canvassing and solicitation, as
well as judicial decisions outlining the boundaries of constitutional
protections afforded and denied persons seeking to engage in door-to-door
solicitation, the city adopts this chapter to promote the city’s substantial
interests in:
      (1)   Respecting a citizen’s decisions regarding privacy in their
residences;
      (2)   Protecting persons from criminal conduct;
      (3)   Providing equal opportunity to advocate for, and against, religious
belief, political position, or charitable activities; and
      (4)   Permitting truthful and non-misleading door-to-door solicitation
regarding lawful goods or services in intrastate or interstate commerce.
   (C)   The city finds that the procedures, rules, and regulations set forth
in this chapter are narrowly tailored to preserve and protect the city
interests referred to herein, while at the same time balancing the rights of
those regulated.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.010) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.02 NO OTHER CITY LICENSE OR APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   Registered solicitors and persons exempt from registration need not
apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit, or registration from the city
to engage in door-to-door solicitation.
   (B)   Any business licensed by the city under another city ordinance that
uses employees, independent contractors, or agents for door-to-door
solicitation in an effort to provide any tangible or intangible benefit to the
business shall be required to have such solicitors obtain a certificate, unless
otherwise exempt from registration.
   (C)   Those responsible persons or entities associated with registered
solicitors need not apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit, or
registration from the city; provided they do not establish a temporary or fixed
place of business in the city.
   (D)   Nothing herein is intended to interfere with, or supplant, any other
requirement of federal, state, or other local government law regarding any
license, permit, or certificate that a registered solicitor is otherwise
required to have or maintain.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.020) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ADVOCATING. Speech or conduct intended to inform, promote, or support
religious beliefs, political position, or charitable activities.
   APPEALS OFFICER. The City Council, or designee, responsible for receiving
the information from the city and appellant regarding the denial or suspension
of a certificate, and issuing a decision as required by this chapter.
   APPELLANT. The person or entity appealing the denial or suspension of a
certificate, either personally as an applicant or registered solicitor, or on
behalf of the applicant or registered solicitor.
   APPLICANT. An individual who is at least 16 years of age and not a
corporation/partnership, limited liability company, or other lawful entity who
applies for a certificate permitting door-to-door solicitation.
   APPLICATION FORM. A standardized form provided by the city to an applicant
to be completed and submitted as part of registration.
   BCI. An original or copy, dated no older than 180 days prior to the date of
the application, of either:
      (1)   A State Department of Public Safety, Bureau of Criminal
Identification-verified criminal history report personal to the applicant; or
      (2)   Verification by the State Department of Public Safety, Bureau of
Criminal Identification that no criminal history rising to the level of a
disqualifying status exists for the applicant.
   BUSINESS. A commercial enterprise licensed by the city as a person or entity
under this chapter, having a fixed or temporary physical location within the
city.
   CERTIFICATE. A temporary, annual, or renewal certificate permitting door-to-
door solicitation in the city, applied for or issued pursuant to the terms of
this chapter.
   CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES. Advocating by persons or entities that either are, or
support, a charitable organization.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Includes any person, joint venture, partnership, limited liability
company, corporation, association, group, or other entity:
         (a)   That is:
            1.   A benevolent, educational, voluntary health, philanthropic,
humane, patriotic, religious or eleemosynary, social welfare or advocacy,
public health, environmental or conservation, or civic organization;
            2.   For the benefit of a public safety, law enforcement, or
firefighter fraternal association; or
            3.   Established for any charitable purpose.
         (b)   That is tax exempt under applicable provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and qualified to solicit and receive tax-
deductible contributions from the public for charitable purposes.
      (2)   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION includes a chapter, branch, area, or
office, or similar affiliate, or any person soliciting contributions within the
state for a charitable organization that has its principal place of business
outside the city or state. (Charitable Solicitation Act, UCA § 13-22-2(1) and
(2).)
   COMPETENT INDIVIDUAL. A person claiming, or appearing to be, at least 18
years of age and of sufficiently sound mind and body so to be able to engage in
rational thought, conversation, and conduct.
   COMPLETED APPLICATION. A fully-completed application form, a BCI, two copies
of the original identification relied on by the applicant to establish proof of
identity, and the tendering of fees.
   CRIMINALLY CONVICTED. The final entry of a conviction, whether by a plea of
no contest, guilty, entry of a judicial, or jury, finding of guilt, which has
not been set aside on appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus. The
CRIMINAL CONVICTION is that offense of which the applicant or registered
solicitor was convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge
after completion of conditions of probation or parole, and charges dismissed
under a plea in abeyance or diversion agreement.
   DISQUALIFYING STATUS. Anything specifically defined in this chapter as
requiring the denial or suspension of a certificate, and any of the following:
      (1)   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted
of:
         (a)   Felony homicide;
         (b)   Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor;
         (c)   The sale or distribution of controlled substances; or
         (d)   Sexual assault of any kind.
      (2)   Criminal charges currently pending against the applicant or
registered solicitor for:
         (a)   Felony homicide;
         (b)   Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor;
         (c)   The sale or distribution of controlled substances; or
         (d)   Sexual assault of any kind.
      (3)   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted
of a felony within the last ten years;
      (4)   The applicant or registered solicitor has been incarcerated in a
federal or state prison within the past five years;
      (5)   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted
of a misdemeanor within the past five years involving a crime of:
         (a)   Moral turpitude; or
         (b)   Violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property.
      (6)   A final civil judgment been entered against the applicant or
registered solicitor within the last five years indicating that:
         (a)   The applicant or registered solicitor had either engaged in
fraud, or in intentional misrepresentation; or
         (b)   That a debt of the applicant or registered solicitor was non-
dischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6),
or (a)(19).
      (7)   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently on parole or
probation to any court, penal institution, or governmental entity, including
being under house arrest or subject to a tracking device;
      (8)   The applicant or registered solicitor has an outstanding arrest
warrant from any jurisdiction; or
      (9)   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently subject to a
protective order based on physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION. The practice of engaging in, or attempting to
engage in, conversation with any person at a residence, whether or not that
person is a competent individual, while making, or seeking to make, or
facilitating a home solicitation sale, or attempting to further the sale of
goods and/or services.
   ENTITY. Includes a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or
other lawful entity, organization, society, or association.
   FEES. The cost charged to the applicant or registered solicitor for the
issuance of a certificate and/or identification badge, which shall not exceed
the reasonable costs of processing the application and issuing the certificate
and/or identification badge.
   FINAL CIVIL JUDGMENT. A civil judgment that would be recognized under state
law as a judgment to which collateral estoppel would apply.
   GOODS. One or more tangible items, wares, objects of merchandise,
perishables of any kind, subscriptions, or manufactured products offered,
provided, or sold.
   HOME SOLICITATION SALE. To make or attempt to make a sale of goods or
services by a solicitor at a residence by means of door-to-door solicitation,
regardless of:
      (1)   The means of payment or consideration used for the purchase;
      (2)   The time of delivery of the goods or services; or
      (3)   The previous or present classification of the solicitor as a
solicitor, peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant, or similar designation.
   LICENSING OFFICER. The city employee(s) or agent(s) responsible for
receiving from an applicant or registered solicitor the completed application
and either granting, suspending, or denying the applicant’s certificate.
   NO SOLICITATION SIGN. A reasonably visible and legible sign that states “No
Soliciting,” “No Solicitors,” “No Salespersons,” “No Trespassing,” or words of
similar import.
   POLITICAL POSITION. Any actually-held belief, or information for, against,
or in conjunction with any political, social, environmental, or humanitarian
belief or practice.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Any person who has been issued a current certificate
by the city.
   REGISTRATION. The process used by the City Licensing Officer to accept a
completed application and determine whether or not a certificate will be
denied, granted, or suspended.
   RELIGIOUS BELIEF. Any sincerely-held belief, or information for, against, or
in conjunction with, any theistic, agnostic, or atheistic assumption,
presumption, or position, or religious doctrine, dogma, or practice regardless
of whether or not the belief or information is endorsed by any other person, or
public or private entity.
   RESIDENCE. Any living unit contained within any building or structure that
is occupied by any person as a dwelling consistent with the zoning laws of the
city, together with the lot or other real property on which the living unit is
located. This does not include the sidewalk, public street, or public rights-
of-way.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON or ENTITY. A person or entity responsible to provide the
following to an applicant, or registered solicitor, and the competent
individual in a residence to whom a sale of goods or services is made, or
attempted to be made, by means of a home solicitation sale:
      (1)   Maintaining a state sales tax number, a special events sales tax
number, computing the sales taxes owing from any sale of goods or services,
paying the sales taxes, and filing any required returns or reports;
      (2)   Facilitating and responding to requests from consumers who desire
to cancel the sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law; and
      (3)   Refunding any monies paid or reversing credit card charges to those
persons who timely rescind any sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights
or law.
   SALE OF GOODS or SERVICES. The conduct and agreement of a solicitor and the
competent individual in a residence regarding a particular good(s) or service
(s) that entitles the consumer to rescind the same within three days under any
applicable federal, state, or local law.
   SERVICES. Intangible goods or personal benefits offered, provided, or sold
to a competent individual of a residence.
   SOLICITING or SOLICIT or SOLICITATION. Any of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain sales or orders for the exchange of goods, wares,
merchandise, or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or
consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for, or to
purchase, insurance, subscriptions to publications, or publications;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain contributions of money or any other thing of
value for the benefit of any person or entity;
      (4)   Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or
services;
      (5)   Seeking to engage an individual in conversation at a residence for
the purpose of promoting or facilitating the receipt of information regarding a
religious belief, political position, charitable conduct, or a home
solicitation sale; and
      (6)   Other activities falling within the commonly accepted definition of
SOLICITING, such as hawking or peddling.
   SOLICITOR or SOLICITORS. A person(s) engaged in door-to-door solicitation.
   SUBMITTED IN WRITING. The information for an appeal of a denial or
suspension of a certificate, submitted in any type of written statement to the
city offices by certified, registered, priority, overnight or delivery
confirmation mail, facsimile, or hand delivery.
   SUBSTANTIATED REPORT. An oral, written, or electronic report:
      (1)   That is submitted to, and documented by, the city;
      (2)   By any of the following:
         (a)   A competent individual who is willing to provide law
enforcement, or other city employees, with publicly available identification of
their name, address, and any other reliable means of contact;
         (b)   City law enforcement or Licensing Officer; or
         (c)   Any other regularly-established law enforcement agency at any
level of government.
      (3)   That provides any of the following information regarding a
registered solicitor:
         (a)   Documented verification of a previously undisclosed
disqualifying status of a registered solicitor;
         (b)   Probable cause that the registered solicitor has committed a
disqualifying status which has not yet been determined to be a disqualifying
status;
         (c)   Documented, eye-witness accounts that the registered solicitor
has engaged in repeated patterns of behavior that demonstrates failure by the
registered solicitor to adhere to the requirements of this chapter; or
         (d)   Probable cause that continued licensing of the registered
solicitor creates exigent circumstances that threaten the health, safety, or
welfare of any individuals or entities within the city.
   WAIVER. The written form provided to an applicant by the city wherein the
applicant agrees that the city may obtain a name/date of birth BCI background
check on the applicant for licensing purposes under this chapter, and which
contains the applicant’s notarized signature.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.030) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following are exempt from registration under this chapter:
      (1)   Persons specifically invited to a residence by a competent
individual prior to the time of the person’s arrival at the residence;
      (2)   Persons whose license, permit, certificate, or registration with
the state permits them to engage in door-to-door solicitation to offer goods or
services to an occupant of the residence;
      (3)   Persons delivering goods to a residence pursuant to a previously
made order, or persons providing services at a residence pursuant to a
previously made request by a competent individual;
      (4)   Persons advocating or disseminating information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any religious belief or political position regardless of
whether goods, services, or any other consideration is offered or given, with
or without any form of commitment, contribution, donation, pledge, or purchase;
and
      (5)   Persons representing a charitable organization. The charitable
exemption shall apply to students soliciting contributions to finance
extracurricular social, athletic, artistic, scientific, or cultural programs;
provided that the solicitation has been approved, in writing, by the school
administration, and that such student solicitors carry current picture student
identification from the educational institution for which they are soliciting.
   (B)   Those persons exempt from registration are not exempt from the duties
and prohibitions outlined in §§
111.17,
111.18, and
111.19 while advocating or soliciting.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.040) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.05 SOLICITATION PROHIBITED.
   Unless otherwise authorized, permitted, or exempted pursuant to the terms
and provisions of this chapter, the practice of being in and upon a private
residence within the city by solicitors, for the purpose of home solicitation
sales or to provide goods or services, is prohibited and is punishable as set
forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.050) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 REGISTRATION OF SOLICITORS.
   Unless otherwise exempt under this chapter, all persons desiring to engage
in door-to-door solicitation within the city, prior to doing so, shall submit a
completed application to the Licensing Officer and obtain a certificate.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.060) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.07 APPLICATION FORM.
   The Licensing Officer shall provide a standard application form for use for
the registration of solicitors. Upon request to the Licensing Officer, or as
otherwise provided, any person or entity may obtain in person, by mail, or a
facsimile a copy of this application form. Each application form shall require
disclosure and reporting by the applicant of the following information,
documentation, and fee:
   (A)   Review of written disclosures. An affirmation that the applicant has
received and reviewed the disclosure information required by this chapter;
   (B)   Contact information.
      (1)   The applicant’s true, correct, and legal name, including any former
names or aliases used during the last ten years;
      (2)   The applicant’s telephone number, home address, and mailing
address, if different;
      (3)   If different from the applicant, the name, address, and telephone
number of the responsible person or entity; and
      (4)   The address by which all notices to the applicant required under
this chapter are to be sent.
   (C)   Proof of identity.
      (1)   An in-person verification by the Licensing Officer of the
applicant’s true identity by use of any of the following which bear a
photograph of said applicant:
         (a)   A valid driver’s license issued by any state;
         (b)   A valid passport issued by the United States;
         (c)   A valid identification card issued by any state; or
         (d)   A valid identification issued by a branch of the United States
military.
      (2)   Upon verification of identity, the original identification
submitted to establish proof of identity shall be returned to the applicant.
   (D)   Proof of registration with Department of Commerce. The applicant shall
provide proof that either the applicant, or the responsible person or entity,
has registered with the State Department of Commerce;
   (E)   Special events sales tax number. The applicant shall provide a special
events sales tax number for either the applicant, or for the responsible person
or entity for which the applicant will be soliciting;
   (F)   Marketing information.
      (1)   The goods or services offered by the applicant, including any
commonly known, registered, or trademarked names; and
      (2)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses, permits,
registrations, or other qualifications required by federal or state law to
promote, provide, or render advice regarding the offered goods or services.
   (G)   BCI background check. The applicant shall provide:
      (1)   An original or a copy of a BCI BACKGROUND CHECK, as defined in §
111.03; and
      (2)   A signed copy of a waiver whereby the applicant agrees to allow the
city to obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on the applicant for
purposes of enforcement of this chapter.
   (H)   Responses to questions regarding disqualifying status. The applicant
shall be required to affirm or deny each of the following statements on the
application form:
      (1)   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of:
         (a)   Felony homicide;
         (b)   Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor;
         (c)   The sale or distribution of controlled substances; or
         (d)   Sexual assault of any kind?
      (2)   Are any criminal charges currently pending against the applicant
for:
         (a)   Felony homicide;
         (b)   Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor;
         (c)   The sale or distribution of controlled substances; or
         (d)   Sexual assault of any kind.
      (3)   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a felony within the
last ten years?
      (4)   Has the applicant been incarcerated in a federal or state prison
within the past five years?
      (5)   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a misdemeanor within
the past five years involving a crime of:
         (a)   Moral turpitude; or
         (b)   Violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property.
      (6)   Has a final civil judgment been entered against the applicant
within the last five years indicating that:
         (a)   The applicant had either engaged in fraud, or intentional
misrepresentation; or
         (b)   That a debt of the applicant was non-dischargeable in
bankruptcy, pursuant to 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19).
      (7)   Is the applicant currently on parole or probation to any court,
penal institution, or governmental entity, including being under house arrest
or subject to a tracking device?
      (8)   Does the applicant have an outstanding arrest warrant from any
jurisdiction?
      (9)   Is the applicant currently subject to a protective order based on
physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of competent jurisdiction?
   (I)   Fee. The applicant shall pay such fees as determined applicable by the
city, which shall not exceed the reasonable cost of processing the application
and issuing the certificate and/or identification badge; and
   (J)   Execution of application. The applicant shall execute the application
form, stating upon oath or affirmation, under penalty of perjury, that based on
the present knowledge and belief of the applicant, the information provided is
complete, truthful, and accurate.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.070) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.08 WRITTEN DISCLOSURES.
   The application form shall be accompanied by written disclosures notifying
the applicant of the following:
   (A)   The applicant’s submission of the application authorizes the city to
verify information submitted with the completed application, including:
      (1)   The applicant’s address;
      (2)   The applicant’s, and/or responsible person or entity’s, state tax
identification and special use tax numbers, if any; and
      (3)   The validity of the applicant’s proof of identity.
   (B)   The city may consult any publicly available sources for information on
the applicant, including, but not limited to, databases for any outstanding
warrants, protective orders, or civil judgments;
   (C)   Establishing proof of identity is required before registration is
allowed;
   (D)   Identification of the fee amount that must be submitted by the
applicant with a completed application;
   (E)   The applicant must submit a BCI background check with a completed
application;
   (F)   To the extent permitted by state and/or federal law, the applicant’s
BCI background check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not
available for public inspection;
   (G)   The city will maintain copies of the applicant’s application form,
proof of identity, and identification badge. These copies will become public
records available for inspection on demand at the city offices whether or not a
certificate is denied, granted, or renewed;
   (H)   The criteria for disqualifying status, denial, or suspension of a
certificate under the provisions of this chapter; and
   (I)   A request for a temporary certificate will be granted or denied the
same business day that a completed application is submitted.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.080) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.09 WHEN REGISTRATION BEGINS.
   The Licensing Officer shall not begin the registration process unless the
applicant has submitted a completed application. The original identification
submitted to establish proof of identity shall be returned after the Licensing
Officer verifies the applicant’s identity. A copy of the identification may be
retained by the Licensing Officer. If an original BCI background check is
submitted by the applicant, the Licensing Officer shall make a copy of the BCI
and return the original to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.090) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.10 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES.
   The Licensing Officer shall review the completed application submitted by
the applicant and issue a certificate in accordance with the following:
   (A)   Temporary certificate.
      (1)   A temporary certificate shall be issued, allowing the applicant to
immediately begin door-to-door solicitation, upon the following conditions:
         (a)   The applicant’s submission of a completed application;
         (b)   The applicant’s submission of the required fee;
         (c)   The applicant establishes proof of identity;
         (d)   The applicant’s representations on the application form do not
affirmatively show a disqualifying status;
         (e)   The BCI does not affirmatively show a disqualifying status; and
         (f)   The applicant has not previously been denied a certificate by
the city, or had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.
      (2)   A temporary certificate will automatically expire after 25 calendar
days from issuance, or upon grant or denial of an annual certificate, whichever
period is shorter.
   (B)   Annual certificate. Within 25 calendar days of the issuance of a
temporary certificate, the city shall:
      (1)   Take any and all actions it deems appropriate to verify the
truthfulness and completeness of the information submitted by the applicant,
including, but not limited to, those disclosed with the application form; and
      (2)   Issue written notice to the applicant and the responsible person or
entity, if any, that the applicant either:
         (a)   Will be issued an annual certificate, eligible for renewal one
year from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate; or
         (b)   Will not be issued an annual certificate for reasons cited in §
111.14.
   (C)   Renewal certificate. An annual certificate shall be valid for one year
from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate and shall expire at
midnight on the anniversary date of issuance. Any annual certificate that is
not suspended, revoked, or expired may be renewed upon the request of the
registered solicitor and the submission of a new completed application and
payment of the fee, unless any of the conditions for the denial, suspension, or
revocation of a certificate are present as set forth in §
111.14, or a disqualifying status is present.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.100) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.11 FORM OF CERTIFICATE AND IDENTIFICATION BADGE.
   (A)   Certificate form. Should the Licensing Officer determine that the
applicant is entitled to a certificate, the Licensing Officer shall issue a
certificate to the applicant. The certificate shall list the name of the
registered solicitor and the responsible person or entity, if any, and the date
on which the certificate expires. The certificate shall be dated and signed by
the Licensing Officer. The certificate shall be carried by the registered
solicitor at all times while soliciting in the city.
   (B)   Identification badge. With both the temporary and annual certificates,
the city shall issue to each registered solicitor an identification badge that
shall be worn prominently on his or her person while soliciting in the city.
The identification badge shall bear the name of the city and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the registered solicitor;
      (2)   Address and phone number of the registered solicitor, or the name,
address, and phone number of the responsible person or entity if provided;
      (3)   A recent photograph of the registered solicitor; and
      (4)   The date on which the certificate expires.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.110) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.12 MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY.
   The Licensing Officer shall maintain, and make available for public
inspection, a copy or record of every completed application received and the
certificate or written denial issued by the city. The applicant’s BCI
background check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not
available for public inspection. The Licensing Officer may furnish to the head
of the city’s law enforcement agency a listing of all applicants, those denied,
and those issued a certificate.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.120) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.13 NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Certificates shall be issued only in the name of the applicant and
shall list the responsible party or entity, if any. The certificate shall be
non-transferable. A registered solicitor desiring to facilitate, or attempt to
facilitate, home solicitation sales with different:
      (1)   Goods or services; or
      (2)   Responsible person or entity, from those designated in the
originally submitted completed application, shall submit a written change
request to the Licensing Officer.
   (B)   A new certificate based on the amended information shall issue for the
balance of time remaining on the solicitor’s previous certificate before the
amendment was filed. Before the new certificate is given to the registered
solicitor, the registered solicitor shall obtain a revised identification badge
from the city, after payment of the fee for the identification badge.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.130) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.14 DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF A CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Denial. Upon review, the Licensing Officer shall refuse to issue a
certificate to an applicant for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Denial of temporary certificate.
         (a)   The application form is not complete;
         (b)   The applicant fails to:
            1.   Establish proof of identity;
            2.   Provide a BCI; or
            3.   Pay the fees.
         (c)   The completed application or BCI indicates that the applicant
has a disqualifying status; or
         (d)   The applicant has previously been denied a certificate by the
city, or has had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.
      (2)   Denial of annual certificate.
         (a)   The information submitted by the applicant at the time of the
granting of the temporary certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         (b)   Since the submission of the completed application, the applicant
is subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         (c)   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         (d)   Since the submission of the application, the city has received a
substantiated report regarding the past or present conduct of the applicant;
         (e)   Since the submission of the application, the city or other
governmental entity has either criminally convicted, or obtained a civil
injunction against, the applicant for violating this chapter or similar
federal, state, or municipal laws in a manner rising to the level of a
disqualifying status; or
         (f)   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that:
            1.   The applicant had either engaged in fraud, or intentional
misrepresentation; or
            2.   A debt of the applicant was non-dischargeable in bankruptcy
pursuant to 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19).
      (3)   Denial of annual certificate renewal.
         (a)   The information submitted by the applicant when seeking renewal
of a certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         (b)   Since the submission of the renewal application, the applicant
is subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         (c)   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         (d)   Since the submission of the application or granting of a
certificate, the city has received a substantiated report regarding the past or
present conduct of the solicitor;
         (e)   The city or other governmental entity has either criminally
convicted, or obtained a civil injunction against, the applicant for violating
this chapter or similar federal, state, or municipal laws in a manner rising to
the level of a disqualifying status; or
         (f)   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that:
            1.   The applicant had either engaged in fraud, or intentional
misrepresentation; or
            2.   A debt of the applicant was non-dischargeable in bankruptcy
pursuant to 11 U.S.C § 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19).
   (B)   Suspension or revocation. The city shall either suspend or revoke a
certificate when any of the reasons warranting the denial of a certificate
occurs.
   (C)   Notice of denial or suspension.
      (1)   Upon determination of the Licensing Officer to deny an applicant’s
completed application, or to suspend a registered solicitor’s certificate, the
city shall cause written notice to be sent to the applicant or registered
solicitor by the method indicated in the completed application.
      (2)   The notice shall specify the grounds for the denial or suspension,
the documentation or information the city relied on to make the decision, the
availability of the documentation for review by the applicant upon one business
day’s notice to the city, and the date upon which the denial or suspension of
the certificate shall take effect. It shall further state that the applicant or
registered solicitor shall have ten business days from the receipt of the
notice of denial or suspension to appeal the same.
      (3)   The denial or suspension of the certificate shall be effective no
sooner than two calendar days from the date the notice is sent, unless that
suspension is because of exigent circumstances outlined in §
111.03, in which case, the suspension is effective immediately. The denial or
suspension shall remain effective unless and until the order is rescinded,
overturned on appeal, or determined by a court to be contrary to equity or law.
Failure to appeal the suspension of a certificate automatically results in its
revocation.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.140) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.15 APPEAL.
   (A)   An applicant or registered solicitor whose certificate has been denied
or suspended shall have the right to appeal to the City Council, or its
designee. Any appeal must be submitted by either the applicant, the responsible
person or entity, or the legal counsel for either who:
      (1)   Documents the relationship with the applicant or responsible person
or entity; or
      (2)   Is licensed or authorized by the state to do so, and makes the
assertion of an agency relationship.
   (B)   The following procedures and requirements shall apply:
      (1)   Any appeal must be submitted, in writing, to the City Recorder with
a copy to the Licensing Officer within ten business days of the decision from
which the appeal is taken. Such appeal shall describe in detail the nature of
the appeal, the action complained of, and the grounds for appeal;
      (2)   Upon request of the applicant or registered solicitor, within one
business day, the city will make available any information upon which it relied
in making the determination to either deny or suspend the certificate;
      (3)   The Appeals Officer shall review, de novo, all written information
submitted by the applicant or registered solicitor to the Licensing Officer,
any additional information relied upon by the Licensing Officer as the basis
for denial, suspension, or revocation, and any additional information supplied
by the city, applicant, or registered solicitor. Any additional information
submitted by any party to the appeal to the Appeals Officer shall be
simultaneously submitted to the opposing party. If desired, any party shall
have three business days to submit rebuttal documentation to the Appeals
Officer regarding the additional information submitted by the opposing party;
      (4)   The appeals officer will render a decision no later than 15
calendar days from the date the appeal was taken, unless an extension of time
is agreed upon by the parties. In the event that any party to the appeal
submits rebuttal information as allowed in division (B)(3) above, the 15
calendar days shall be extended to include the additional three days for
rebuttal.
         (a)   The denial or suspension of the certificate shall be reversed by
the Appeals Officer if, upon review of the written appeal and information
submitted, the Appeals Officer finds that the Licensing Officer made a material
mistake of law or fact in denying or suspending the applicant or registered
solicitor’s certificate;
         (b)   If the written appeal and information submitted indicates that
the Licensing Officer properly denied or suspended the certificate of the
applicant or registered solicitor, the denial or suspension of the certificate
shall be affirmed and constitute a determination that the suspended certificate
is revoked; and
         (c)   The decision of the Appeals Officer shall be delivered to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the means designated in the completed
application, or as otherwise agreed upon when the appeal was filed.
      (5)   After the ruling of the Appeals Officer, the applicant or solicitor
is deemed to have exhausted all administrative remedies with the city; and
      (6)   Nothing herein shall impede or interfere with the applicant’s,
solicitor’s, or city’s right to seek relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.150) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.16 DECEPTIVE SOLICITING PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially false or
fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.
   (B)   A solicitor shall immediately disclose to the consumer during face-to-
face solicitation:
      (1)   The name of the solicitor;
      (2)   The name and address of the entity with whom the solicitor is
associated; and
      (3)   The purpose of the solicitor’s contact with the person and/or
competent individual. This requirement may be satisfied through the use of the
badge and an informational flyer.
   (C)   No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an alias, or any name other
than his or her true and correct name.
   (D)   No solicitor shall represent directly, or by implication, that the
granting of a certificate of registration implies any endorsement by the city
of the solicitor’s goods or services, or of the individual solicitor.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.160) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.17 “NO SOLICITING” NOTICE.
   (A)   Any occupant of a residence may give notice of a desire to refuse
solicitors by displaying a “No Solicitation” sign, which shall be posted on, or
near, the main entrance door, or on, or near, the property line adjacent to the
sidewalk leading to the residence.
   (B)   The display of such sign or placard shall be deemed to constitute
notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of the residence does not desire to
receive and/or does not invite solicitors.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the solicitor to check each
residence for the presence of any such notice.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall apply also to solicitors who are
exempt from registration pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.170) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.18 DUTIES OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   Every person soliciting or advocating shall check each residence for
any “No Soliciting” sign or placard, or any other notice or sign notifying a
solicitor not to solicit on the premises, such as, but not limited to, “No
Solicitation” signs.
   (B)   If such sign or placard is posted, such solicitor shall desist from
any efforts to solicit at the residence or dwelling and shall immediately
depart from such property. Possession of a certificate of registration does
not, in any way, relieve any solicitor of this duty.
   (C)   It is a violation of this chapter for any person soliciting or
advocating to knock on the door, ring the doorbell, or in any other manner
attempt to attract the attention of an occupant of a residence that bears a “No
Solicitation” sign, or similar sign or placard, for the purpose of engaging in,
or attempting to engage in, advocating, a home solicitation sale, door-to-door
soliciting, or eliciting.
   (D)   It is a violation of this chapter for any solicitor through ruse,
deception, or fraudulent concealment of a purpose to solicit, or to take action
calculated to secure an audience with an occupant at a residence.
   (E)   Any solicitor who is, at any time, asked by an occupant of a residence
or dwelling to leave shall immediately and peacefully depart.
   (F)   The solicitor shall not intentionally or recklessly make any physical
contact with, or touch, another person without the person’s consent.
   (G)   The solicitor shall not follow a person into a residence without their
explicit consent.
   (H)   The solicitor shall not continue repeated soliciting after a person
and/or competent individual has communicated clearly and unequivocally their
lack of interest in the subject (goods or services of the solicitor).
   (I)   The solicitor shall not use obscene language or gestures.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.180) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19 TIME OF DAY RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or not, to solicit at
a residence before 9:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m Mountain Time, unless the
solicitor has express prior permission from the resident to do so.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.190) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20 BUYER’S RIGHT TO CANCEL.
   In any home solicitation sale, unless the buyer requests the solicitor to
provide goods or services without delay in an emergency, the seller or
solicitor shall present to the buyer and obtain the buyer’s signature to a
written statement which informs the buyer of the right to cancel within the
third business day after signing an agreement to purchase. Such notice of
“buyer’s right to cancel” shall be in the form required by UCA § 70C-5-103, or
a current version thereof, or any state or federal law modifying or amending
such provision.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.200) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any term or provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
$1,000 and/or a jail sentence of not to exceed six months.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.210) (Ord. 12-2006, passed 8-16-2006)
CHAPTER 112: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Title
   
112.02   Purpose of provisions
   
112.03   Application of provisions
   
112.04   Definitions
   
112.05   Obscenity and lewdness; statutory provisions
   
112.06   Location and zoning restrictions
   
112.07   Business license required
   
112.08   Exemptions from license requirements
   
112.09   Legitimate artistic modeling
   
112.10   Business categories; number of licenses
   
112.11   Employee licenses
   
112.12   Licensing
   
112.13   Regulations and unlawful activities
   
112.14   Outcall services; operation requirements
   
112.15   Design of premises
   
112.16   Semi-nude businesses
   
112.17   Alcohol prohibited
   
112.18   Prohibited acts
   
112.19   Nudity; defenses to prosecution
   
112.20   Existing businesses; compliance time limits
   
112.21   Injunctions
   
112.22   Appeal procedures
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Zoning regulations for sexually-oriented businesses, see §§
157.540 through
157.544
§ 112.01 TITLE.
   The provisions codified in this chapter shall be known, and may be referred
to as, the “Sexually-Oriented Business and Employee Licensing Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 5.16.010) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998)
§ 112.02 PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS.
   It is the purpose and object of this chapter that the city establish
reasonable and uniform regulations governing the time, place, and manner of
operation of sexually-oriented businesses and their employees in the city. This
chapter shall be construed to protect the governmental interests recognized by
this chapter in a manner consistent with constitutional protections provided by
the United States and state constitutions.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.020) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998)
§ 112.03 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   This chapter imposes regulatory standards and license requirements on
certain business activities which are characterized as sexually-oriented
businesses, and certain employees of those businesses characterized as
sexually-oriented business employees. Except where the context or specific
provisions require, this chapter does not supersede or nullify any other
related ordinances, resolutions, or order. In the event of a conflict with a
previously-adopted ordinance or resolution, the provisions of this chapter
shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.030) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998)
§ 112.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment:
      (1)   Which excludes minors from more than 15% of the retail floor or
shelf space of the premises; or
      (2)   Which, as one of its principal purposes, offers for sale or rental,
for any form of consideration, any one or more of the following: books,
magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter; photographs, films, or motion
pictures; video cassettes, or video reproductions, slides, or other visual
representations, the central theme of which depicts or describes specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or instruments, devices, or
paraphernalia which are designated for use in connection with specified sexual
activities, except for legitimate medically-recognized contraceptives.
   ADULT BUSINESS. An adult motion picture theater, adult bookstore, or adult
video store.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Excludes minors from the showing of two consecutive exhibitions
(repeated showings of any single presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
      (2)   As its principal business, shows, for any form of consideration,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions which are primarily characterized by the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which:
      (1)   Holds itself out as such a business;
      (2)   Excludes minors from the showing of two consecutive exhibitions
(repeated performance of the same presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
      (3)   As its principal business, features persons who appear in live
performances in a state of semi-nudity, or which are characterized by the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   EMPLOY. Hiring an individual to work for pecuniary, or any other form of,
compensation, whether such person is hired on the payroll of the employer, as
an independent contractor, as an agent, or in any other form of employment
relationship.
   ESCORT. Any person who, for pecuniary compensation, dates, socializes,
visits, consorts with, or accompanies, or offers to date, consort, socialize,
visit, or accompany, another or others to, or about, social affairs,
entertainment, or places of amusement, or within any place of public or private
resort or any business or commercial establishment, or any private quarters.
ESCORT shall not be construed to include persons who provide business or
personal services, such as licensed private nurses, aides for the elderly or
handicapped, social secretaries, or similar service personnel whose
relationship with their patron is characterized by a bona fide contractual
relationship having a duration of more than 12 hours and who provide a service
not principally characterized as dating or socializing. ESCORT shall also not
be construed to include persons providing services such as singing telegrams,
birthday greetings, or similar activities characterized by appearances in a
public place contracted for by a party other than the person for whom the
service is being performed, and of a duration not longer than one hour.
   ESCORT SERVICE. An individual or entity who, for pecuniary compensation,
furnishes, or offers to furnish, escorts, or provides, or offers to introduce,
patrons to escorts.
   ESCORT SERVICE RUNNER. Any third person, not an escort, who, for pecuniary
compensation, acts in the capacity of an agent or broker for an escort service,
escort, or patron by contacting or meeting with escort services, escorts, or
patrons at any location within the city, whether or not such third person is
employed by such escort service, escort, patron, or by another business, or is
an independent contractor or self-employed.
   NUDITY. A state of dress in which the areola of the female breast, or male
or female genitals, pubic region, or anus are covered by less than the covering
required in the definition of SEMI-NUDE.
   OPERATOR. The manager, or other natural person, principally in charge of a
sexually-oriented business.
   OUTCALL SERVICES. Services of a type performed by a sexually-oriented
business employee outside of the premises of the licensed sexually-oriented
business, including, but not limited to, escorts, models, dancers, and other
similar employees.
   PATRON. Any person who contracts with, or employs, any escort services or
escort, or the customer of any business licensed pursuant to this chapter.
   PECUNIARY COMPENSATION. Any commission, fee, salary, tip, gratuity, hire,
profit, reward, or any other form of consideration.
   PERSON. Any person, unincorporated association, corporation, partnership, or
other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which opaque clothing covers no more than the
areola of the female breast; and the male or female genitals, pubic region, and
anus shall be fully covered by an opaque covering not narrower than four inches
wide in the front and five inches wide in the back, which shall not taper to
less than one inch wide at the narrowest point.
   SEMI-NUDE DANCING AGENCY. Any person, agency, firm, corporation,
partnership, or any other entity or individual which furnishes, books, or
otherwise engages, or offers to furnish, book, or otherwise engage, the service
of a professional dancer licensed pursuant to this chapter for performance or
appearance at a business licensed for adult theater.
   SEMI-NUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. A business, including an adult theater,
where employees perform or appear in the presence of patrons of the business in
a state of semi-nudity. A business shall also be presumed to be a semi-nude
entertainment business if the business holds itself out as such a business.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Semi-nude entertainment businesses, sexually-
oriented outcall services, adult businesses, and semi-nude dancing agencies, as
defined by this chapter.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES. Those employees who work on the
premises of a sexually-oriented business in activities related to the sexually-
oriented portion of the business. This includes all managing employees,
dancers, escorts, models, and other similar employees, whether or not hired as
employees, agents, or as independent contractors. Employees shall not include
individuals whose work is unrelated to the sexually-oriented portion of the
business, such as janitors, bookkeepers, and similar employees. SEXUALLY-
ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES shall not include cooks, serving persons, and
similar employees, except where they may be managers or supervisors of the
business. All persons making outcall meetings under this chapter, including
escorts, models, guards, escort runners, drivers, chauffeurs, and other similar
employees, shall be considered SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The human male or female pubic area or anus with
less than a full opaque covering, or the human female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola, with less than full opaque covering.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Acts of:
         (a)   Masturbation;
         (b)   Human sexual intercourse;
         (c)   Sexual copulation between a person and a beast;
         (d)   Fellatio;
         (e)   Cunnilingus;
         (f)   Bestiality;
         (g)   Pederasty;
         (h)   Buggery; or
         (i)   Any anal copulation between a human male and another human male,
human female, or beast.
      (2)   Manipulating, caressing, or fondling by any person of:
         (a)   The genitals of a human;
         (b)   The pubic area of a human; or
         (c)   The breast or breasts of a human female.
      (3)   Flagellation or torture by, or upon, a person clad in
undergarments, a mask, or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered,
bound, or otherwise physically restrained on the part of the one so clothed.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.040) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998)
§ 112.05 OBSCENITY AND LEWDNESS; STATUTORY PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to permit or allow the showing or display of any matter
which is contrary to applicable federal or state statutes prohibiting
obscenity.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to permit or allow conduct, or the showing or display,
of any matter which is contrary to the provisions of UCA § 76-9-702,
“Lewdness”. Provided, however, that for the purpose of sexually-oriented
businesses, the definition of PRIVATE PARTS shall be construed to mean NUDITY,
as defined in §
112.04.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.050) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998)
§ 112.06 LOCATION AND ZONING RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any sexually-oriented business to do business at any
location within the city not zoned for such business. Sexually-oriented
businesses licensed as adult businesses or semi-nude entertainment businesses
pursuant to this chapter shall only be allowed in areas zoned for their use
pursuant to §§
157.540 through
157.544.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.060) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually-oriented business, as
specified herein, without first obtaining a general business license and a
sexually-oriented business license. The sexually-oriented business license
shall specify the type of business for which it is obtained.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.070) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any sex therapist or
similar individual licensed by the state to provide bona fide sexual therapy or
counseling, licensed medical practitioner, licensed nurse, psychiatrist, or
psychologist, nor shall it apply to any educator licensed by the state for
activities in the classroom.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.080) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998)
§ 112.09 LEGITIMATE ARTISTIC MODELING.
   (A)   The city does not intend to unreasonably or improperly prohibit
legitimate modeling which may occur in a state of nudity for purposes protected
by the First Amendment or similar state protections. The city does intend to
prohibit prostitution and related offenses occurring under the guise of nude
modeling. Notwithstanding the provisions of §
112.05, a licensed outcall employee may appear in a state of nudity before a
customer or patron; provided that a written contract for such appearance was
entered into between the customer or patron and the employee, and signed at
least 24 hours before the nude appearance. All of the other applicable
provisions of this chapter shall still apply to such nude appearance.
   (B)   In the event of a contract for nude modeling or appearance signed more
than 48 hours in advance of the modeling or appearance, the individual to
appear nude shall not be required to obtain a license pursuant to this chapter.
During such unlicensed nude appearance, it is unlawful to:
      (1)   Appear nude or semi-nude in the presence of persons under the age
of 18;
      (2)   Allow, offer, or agree to any touching of the contracting party or
other person by the individual appearing nude;
      (3)   Allow, offer, or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor, or committing:
         (a)   Fellatio;
         (b)   Cunnilingus;
         (c)   Bestiality;
         (d)   Pederasty;
         (e)   Buggery; or
         (f)   Any anal copulation between a human male and another human male,
human female, or beast.
      (4)   Manipulating, caressing, or fondling by any person of:
         (a)   The genitals of a human;
         (b)   The pubic area of a human; or
         (c)   The breast or breasts of a human female.
      (5)   Flagellation or torture by, or upon, a person clad in
undergarments, a mask, or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered,
bound, or otherwise physically restrained on the part of the one so clothed.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.090) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 BUSINESS CATEGORIES; NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any business premises to operate, or be licensed,
for more than one category of sexually-oriented business, except that a
business may have a license for both outcall services and a semi-nude dancing
agency on the same premises.
   (B)   The categories of sexually-oriented businesses are;
      (1)   Outcall services;
      (2)   Adult businesses;
      (3)   Semi-nude entertainment businesses; and
      (4)   Semi-nude dancing agencies.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.100) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 EMPLOYEE LICENSES.
   It is unlawful for any sexually-oriented business to employ, or for any
individual to be employed by a sexually-oriented business, in the capacity of a
sexually-oriented business employee, unless that employee first obtains a
sexually-oriented business employee license.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.110) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 LICENSING.
   (A)   License; application; disclosure required. Before any applicant may be
licensed to operate a sexually-oriented business or as a sexually-oriented
business employee pursuant to this chapter, the applicant shall submit, on a
form to be supplied by the city license authority, the following:
      (1)   The correct legal name of each applicant, corporation, partnership,
limited partnership, or entity doing business under an assumed name;
      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation, partnership, or limited
partnership, or an individual or entity doing business under an assumed name,
the information required below for individual applicants shall be submitted for
each partner and each principal of an applicant, and for each officer,
director, and any shareholder (corporate or personal) of more than 10% of the
stock of any applicant. Any holding company, or any entity holding more than
10% of an applicant, shall be considered an applicant for purposes of
disclosure under this chapter. The shareholder disclosure requirements above
shall only be applicable for outcall service licenses;
      (3)   All corporations, partnerships, or noncorporate entities included
on the application shall also identify each individual authorized by the
corporation, partnership, or noncorporate entity to sign the checks for such
corporation, partnership, or noncorporate entity;
      (4)   For all applicants or individuals, the application must also state:
         (a)   Any other names or aliases used by the individual;
         (b)   The age, date, and place of birth;
         (c)   Height;
         (d)   Weight;
         (e)   Color of hair;
         (f)   Color of eyes;
         (g)   Present business address and telephone number;
         (h)   Present residence and telephone number;
         (i)   State driver’s license or identification number; and
         (j)   Social Security number.
      (5)   Acceptable written proof that any individual is at least 18 years
of age;
      (6)   Attached to the form, as provided above, two color photographs of
the applicant clearly showing the individual’s face and the individual’s
fingerprints on a form provided by the County Sheriff acting as the City Police
Department. For persons not residing in the city, the photographs and
fingerprints may be on a form from the law enforcement jurisdiction where the
person resides. Fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant directly to the issuing agency;
      (7)   For any individual applicant required to obtain a sexually-oriented
business employee license as an escort or a semi-nude entertainer, a
certificate from the County Health Department, stating that the individual has,
within 30 days immediately preceding the date of the original or renewal
application, been examined and found to be free of any contagious or
communicable diseases;
      (8)   A statement of the business, occupation, or employment history of
the applicant for three years immediately preceding the date of the filing of
the application;
      (9)   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the five-year period immediately preceding the date of the filing
of the application, including whether such applicant previously operating, or
seeking to operate, in this or any other county, city, state, or territory, has
ever had a license, permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or
suspended, or has had any professional or vocational license or permit denied,
revoked, or suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation, or
suspension, state the date, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction,
and state in full the reasons for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A copy
of any order of denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the
application;
      (10)   All criminal convictions or pleas of nolo contendere, except those
which have been expunged, and the disposition of all such arrests for the
applicant, individual, or other entity subject to disclosure under this
chapter, for five years prior to the date of the application. This disclosure
shall include identification of all chapter violations, excepting minor traffic
offenses (any traffic offense designated as a felony shall not be construed as
a minor traffic offense), stating the date, place, nature of each conviction or
plea of nolo contendere and sentence of each conviction or other disposition,
identifying the convicting jurisdiction and sentencing court, and providing the
court identifying case numbers or docket numbers. Application for a sexually-
oriented business or employee license shall constitute a waiver of disclosure
of any criminal conviction or plea of nolo contendere for the purposes of any
proceeding involving the business or employee license;
      (11)   In the event the applicant is not the owner of record of the real
property upon which the business or proposed business is, or is to be, located,
the application must be accompanied by a notarized statement from the legal or
equitable owner of the possessory interest in the property specifically
acknowledging the type of business for which the applicant seeks a license for
the property. In addition to furnishing such notarized statement, the applicant
shall furnish the name, address, and phone number of the owner of record of the
property, as well as the copy of the lease or rental agreement pertaining to
the premises in which the service is, or will be, located; and
      (12)   A description of the services to be provided by the business, with
sufficient detail to allow reviewing authorities to determine what business
will be transacted on the premises, together with a schedule of usual fees for
services to be charged by the licensee, and any rules, regulations, or
employment guidelines under, or by which, the business intends to operate. This
description shall also include:
         (a)   The hours that the business or service will be open to the
public, and the methods of promoting the health and safety of the employees and
patrons, and of preventing them from engaging in illegal activity;
         (b)   The methods of supervision preventing the employees from
engaging in acts of prostitution or other related criminal activities;
         (c)   The methods of supervising employees and patrons to prevent
employees and patrons from charging or receiving fees for services or acts
prohibited by this chapter, or other statutes or ordinances; and
         (d)   The methods of screening employees and customers in order to
promote the health and safety of employees and customers, and to prevent the
transmission of disease, and to prevent the commission of acts of prostitution
or other criminal activity. It is unlawful to knowingly submit false or
materially misleading information on, or with, a sexually-oriented business
license application, or to fail to disclose, or omit, information for the
purpose of obtaining a sexually-oriented business or employee license.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.120)
   (B)   License fees. Each applicant for a sexually-oriented business or
employee license shall be required to pay regulatory license fees as set forth
in the city fee schedule. An application is not complete until all appropriate
fees have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.130)
   (C)   License bond. Each application for a sexually-oriented business
license shall post, with the city’s Recorder or Treasurer, a cash or corporate
surety bond payable to the city in the amount of $2,000. Any fines assessed
against the business, officers, or managers for violations of city ordinances
shall be taken from this bond if not paid in cash within ten days after notice
of the fine, unless an appeal is filed as provided by this chapter. In the
event the funds are drawn against the cash or surety bond to pay such fines,
the bond shall be replenished to $2,000 within 15 days of the date of notice of
any draw against it.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.140)
   (D)   License; premises location and name.
      (1)   It is unlawful to conduct business under a license issued pursuant
to this chapter at any location other than the licensed premises. Any location
to which telephone calls are automatically forwarded by such business shall
require a separate license.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any sexually-oriented business to do business in
the city under any name other than the business name specified in the
application.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.150)
   (E)   License; issuance conditions. The City Recorder shall approve the
issuance of a license to the applicant within 30 days after receipt of a
completed application, unless the Mayor finds one or more of the following:
      (1)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   The applicant is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees,
fines, or penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed on the applicant
in relation to a sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   The applicant has falsely answered a material question or request
for information as authorized by this chapter;
      (4)   The applicant has violated a provision of this chapter or similar
provisions found in statutes or ordinances from any jurisdiction within two
years immediately preceding the application; a criminal conviction for a
violation of a provision of this chapter, or similar provisions, from any
jurisdiction, whether or not it is being appealed, is conclusive evidence of a
violation, but a conviction is not necessary to prove a violation;
      (5)   The premises to be used for the business has been disapproved by
the County Health Department, the County Fire District or Fire Marshal, the
County Sheriff’s Department, the City Building Officials, or the Zoning
Officials of the city as not being in compliance with applicable laws and
ordinances of the city. If any of the foregoing reviewing agencies cannot
complete their review within the 30-day approval or denial period, the agency
or department may obtain from the Mayor an extension of time of no more than 15
additional days to complete their review. The total time for the city to
approve or deny a license shall not exceed 45 days from the receipt of a
completed application and payment of all fees. A business located outside of
the corporate boundaries of the city, but requiring a license under this
chapter, may be denied a license pursuant to this chapter if the business does
not have a valid business license to conduct business at the business location
from the appropriate jurisdiction for that location.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application, all departments required to
review the application shall determine within seven days whether or not the
application is complete in items needed for processing. Incomplete applications
shall immediately be returned to the applicant with a specification of the
items which are incomplete;
         (b)   The time for processing applications specified in this section
shall begin to run from the receipt of a complete application;
         (c)   In the event that a license for semi-nude entertainment, semi-
nude dancing agencies, adult businesses, or semi-nude entertainment businesses
has not been disapproved within 30 days, or the 45 days allowed after an
extension, the city shall issue the license pending completion of the city’s
review; and
         (d)   Any license issued pursuant to division (E)(3) above may be
revoked by the city, pursuant to the revocation procedures provided for herein,
if the completed review determines that the license should have been denied.
      (6)   The required license fees have not been paid;
      (7)   All applicable sales and use taxes have not been paid;
      (8)   An applicant for the proposed business is in violation of, or not
in compliance with, this chapter or similar provisions found in statutes or
ordinances from any jurisdiction; and
      (9)   An applicant has been convicted or pled nolo contendere to a crime:
         (a)   Involving prostitution; exploitation of prostitution; aggravated
promotion of prostitution; aggravated exploitation of prostitution;
solicitation of sex acts; sex acts for hire; compelling prostitution; aiding
prostitution sales, distribution, or the display of material harmful to minors;
sexual performance by minors; possession of child pornography; lewdness;
indecent exposure; any crime involving sexual abuse or exploitation of a child;
sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault; rape; forcible sodomy; forcible
sexual abuse; incest; harboring a runaway child; or criminal attempt,
conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any of the foregoing offenses or offenses
involving similar elements from any jurisdiction, regardless of the exact title
of the offense, for which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed from the date of conviction,
if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense, or less than five years if the
convictions are of two or more misdemeanors within the five years; or
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed from the date of conviction,
if the offense is of a felony.
         (b)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the disqualification provided for pursuant to this division (E).
(Prior Code, § 5.16.160)
   (F)   License; term. Sexually-oriented business and employee licenses issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be valid from the date of issuance through July
of each succeeding year. The license fees required under the city fee schedule
shall not be prorated for any portion of a year, but shall be paid in full for
whatever portion of the year the license will cover if granted.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.170)
   (G)   License; notice of change of information. Any change in the
information required to be submitted under this chapter for either a sexually-
oriented business license or sexually-oriented business employee license shall
be given, in writing, to the Mayor and the County Sheriff, acting as the City
Police Department, within 14 days after such change.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.180)
   (H)   License; transfer limitations. Sexually-oriented business licenses
granted under this chapter shall not be transferable. It is unlawful for a
license held by an individual to be transferred. It is unlawful for a license
held by a corporation, partnership, or other noncorporate entity to transfer
any part in excess of 10% thereof without filing a new application and
obtaining prior city approval. If any transfer of the controlling interest in a
business licensee occurs, the license is immediately null and void, and the
business shall not operate until a separate new license has been properly
issued by the city as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.190)
   (I)   License; display. It is unlawful for any sexually-oriented business
location within the boundaries of the city to fail to display the license
granted pursuant to this chapter in a prominent location within the business
premises. It is unlawful for any individual licensed pursuant to this chapter
to fail to carry, at all times while engaged in licensed activities-within the
corporate boundaries of the city, his or her employee license on his or her
person. If the individual is nude, such license shall be visibly displayed
within the same room the employee is performing. When requested by police, city
licensing, or other enforcement personnel or health officials, it is unlawful
to fail to show the appropriate licenses while engaged in licensed activities
within the corporate boundaries of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.200)
   (J)   License; statement in advertisements. It is unlawful for any
advertisement by the sexually-oriented business or employee to fail to state
that the business or employee is licensed by the city, and shall include the
city license number.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.210)
   (K)   License suspension or revocation.
      (1)   The city may issue a notice suspending or revoking a sexually-
oriented business or employee license granted under this chapter if a licensee
or an employee of the licensee has:
         (a)   Violated, or is not in compliance with, this chapter;
         (b)   Refused to allow any inspection of the premises of the sexually-
oriented business specifically authorized by this chapter, or by any other
statute or ordinance;
         (c)   Failed to replenish the cash bond as provided in this chapter
(such a suspension shall extend until the bond has been replenished);
         (d)   Given materially false or misleading information in obtaining
the license;
         (e)   Knowingly operated the sexually-oriented business, or worked
under an employee license during the period when the business licensee or
employee licensee’s license was suspended;
         (f)   A licensee has committed an offense which would be grounds for
denial of a license for which the time period required to run has not yet
elapsed;
         (g)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed in, or on, or solicited for on the licensed premises, or an
outcall employee solicited or committed on, or off, the premises, an offense
which would be grounds for denial of a license for which a conviction has been
obtained, and the person or persons were employees, whether or not licensed, of
the sexually-oriented business at the time the offense was committed; and
         (h)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for ad valorem
taxes, or sales taxes related to the sexually-oriented business.
      (2)   Suspension or revocation shall take effect within 15 days of the
issuance of notice, unless an appeal is filed as provided by this chapter.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.340)
   (L)   Effect of license revocation. When a license issued pursuant to this
chapter is revoked, the revocation shall continue for one year from its
effective date, and a sexually-oriented business or employee license shall not
be issued or reissued a license for one year from the date of such revocation.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.350)
(Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 REGULATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.
   It is unlawful for any sexually-oriented business or sexually-oriented
business employee to:
   (A)   Allow persons under the age of 18 years on the licensed premises,
except that in adult businesses which exclude minors from less than all of the
business premises, minors shall not be permitted in excluded areas;
   (B)   Allow, offer, or agree to conduct any outcall business with persons
under the age of 18 years;
   (C)   To allow, offer, or agree to allow any alcohol to be stored, used, or
consumed on, or in, the licensed premises;
   (D)   Allow the outside door to the premises to be locked while any customer
is in the premises;
   (E)   Allow, offer, or agree to gambling on the licensed premises;
   (F)   Allow, offer, or agree to any sexually-oriented business employee
touching or being touched by any patron or customer; except that outcall
employees and customers may touch, except that any touching of specified
anatomical areas, whether clothed or unclothed, is prohibited;
   (G)   Allow, offer, or agree to illegal possession, use, sale, or
distribution of controlled substances on the licensed premises;
   (H)   Allow sexually-oriented business employees to possess, use, sell, or
distribute controlled substances while engaged in the activities of the
business;
   (I)   Allow, offer, or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor, or committing activities harmful to a
minor to occur on the licensed premises or, in the event of an outcall employee
or business, the outcall employee committing, offering, or agreeing to commit
prostitution, attempting to commit prostitution, soliciting prostitution,
soliciting a minor, or committing activities harmful to a minor;
   (J)   Allow, offer, commit, or agree to any specified sexual activity, as
validly defined by city ordinances or state statute, in the presence of any
customer or patron;
   (K)   Allow, offer, or agree to any outcall employee appearing before any
customer or patron in a state of nudity;
   (L)   Allow, offer, or agree to allow a patron or customer to masturbate in
the presence of the sexually-oriented business employee, or on the premises of
a sexually-oriented business; and
   (M)   Allow, offer, or agree to commit an act of lewdness, as defined in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.220) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.14 OUTCALL SERVICES; OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any business or employee providing outcall services
contracted for in the city to fail to comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   All businesses licensed to provide outcall services pursuant to this
chapter shall provide to each patron a written contract in receipt of pecuniary
compensation for services. The contract shall clearly state the type of
services to be performed, the length of time such services shall be performed,
the total amount such services shall cost the patron, and any special terms or
conditions relating to the services to be performed. The contract need not
include the name of the patron. The business licensee shall keep and maintain a
copy of each written contract entered into pursuant to this section for a
period of not less than one year from the date of provision of services
thereunder. The contracts shall be numbered and entered into a register listing
the contract number, date, names of all employees involved in the contract, and
pecuniary compensation paid;
   (B)   All outcall businesses licensed pursuant to this chapter shall
maintain an open office or telephone at which the licensee, or licensee’s
designated agent, may be personally contacted during all hours outcall
employees are working. The address and phone number of the license location
shall appear, and be included in, all patron contracts and published
advertisements. For outcall businesses for which the premises are licensed
within the corporate limits of the city, private rooms or booths where the
patrons may meet with the outcall employee shall not be provided at the open
office or any other location by the service, nor shall patrons meet outcall
employees at the business premises;
   (C)   Outcall services shall not advertise in such a manner that would lead
a reasonably prudent person to conclude that specified sexual activities would
be performed by the outcall employee; and
   (D)   All employees of outcall services who provide outcall services within
the city shall be licensed in accordance with this chapter, regardless of the
primary location of the business.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.230) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.15 DESIGN OF PREMISES.
   (A)   In addition to the general requirements of disclosure for a sexually-
oriented business, any applicant for a license as an adult business shall also
submit a diagram, drawn to scale, of the premises of the license. The design
and construction, prior to granting a license or opening for business, shall
conform to the following.
      (1)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms.
      (2)   Restrooms may not contain any video reproduction equipment or any
of the business merchandise. Signs shall be posted requiring only one person
being allowed in the restroom per stall, and only one person in any stall at a
time, and requiring that patrons shall not be allowed access to the manager’s
station areas.
      (3)   For businesses which exclude minors from the entire premises, all
windows, doors and other apertures to the premises shall be darkened or
otherwise constructed to prevent anyone outside the premises from seeing the
inside of the premises. Businesses which exclude minors from less than all of
the premises shall be designed and constructed so that minors may not see into
the area from which they are excluded.
      (4)   The diagram required shall not necessarily be a professional
engineer’s or architect’s blueprint; however, the diagram must show marked
internal dimensions, all overhead lighting fixtures, and ratings for
illumination capacity.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the licensee, and the licensee’s employees, to
ensure that the views from the manager’s station in division (A) above remain
unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks, or any other
materials at all times that any patron is present in the premises, and to
ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has
been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted.
   (C)   The premises shall at all times be equipped and operated with overhead
lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which
patrons are permitted access at an illumination of not less than one foot-
candle, measured at floor level.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the licensee, and the licensee’s employees
present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described above is
maintained at all times that any patron is present in the premises.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.240) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998)
§ 112.16 SEMI-NUDE BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Semi-nude entertainment business design of premises.
      (1)   It is unlawful for business premises licensed for semi-nude
entertainment to:
         (a)   Permit a bed, sofa, mattress, or similar item in any room on the
premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception room open to the
public or in any office to which patrons are not admitted, and except that in
an adult theater, such items may be on the stage as part of a performance;
         (b)   Allow any door on any room used for the business, except for the
door to an office to which patrons shall not be admitted, outside doors, and
restroom doors, to be lockable from the inside; and
         (c)   Provide any room in which the employee or employees, and the
patron or patrons, are alone together without a separation by a solid physical
barrier at least three feet high and six inches wide. The patron or patrons
shall remain on one side of the barrier and the employee or employees shall
remain on the other side of the barrier.
      (2)   Adult theaters shall also require that the performance area be
separated from the patrons by a minimum of three feet, which separation shall
be delineated by a physical barrier at least three feet high.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.250)
   (B)   Semi-nude entertainment business location restriction. It is unlawful
for any business licensed for semi-nude entertainment to be located within 330
feet of a business licensed for the sale or consumption of alcohol.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.260)
   (C)   Semi-nude dancing agencies.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book, or
otherwise engage the services of a professional dancer, model, or performer to
appear in a state of semi-nudity for pecuniary compensation in, or for, any
semi-nude entertainment business or adult theater of the type required by this
chapter to be licensed, unless such agency is licensed pursuant to this
chapter.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book, or
otherwise engage or permit any person to perform as a professional dancer,
model, or performer in a state of semi-nudity or nudity, either gratuitously or
for compensation, in or for any business licensed pursuant to this chapter,
unless such person is licensed pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.280)
(Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.17 ALCOHOL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any business licensed pursuant to this chapter to
allow the sale, storage, supply, or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to possess or consume any alcoholic
beverage on the premises of any sexually-oriented business.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.270) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.18 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Performers; prohibited activities. It is unlawful for any professional
dancer, model, or performer, while performing in any business licensed pursuant
to this chapter, to:
      (1)   Touch in any manner any other person;
      (2)   Throw any object or clothing off the stage area;
      (3)   Accept any money, drink, or any other object directly from any
person;
      (4)   Allow another person to touch such performer or to place any money
or object on the performer, or within the costume or person of the performer;
or
      (5)   Place anything within the costume, or adjust or move the costume,
while performing so as to render the performer in a state of nudity.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.290)
   (B)   Patrons; prohibited activities. It is unlawful for any person or any
patron of any business to touch in any manner any performer; to place any money
or object on, or within, the costume or person of any performer; or to give, or
offer to give, to any such performer any drinks, money, or object while such
performer is performing, except that money may be placed on the stage, which
shall not be picked up by the performer except by hand.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.300)
(Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.19 NUDITY; DEFENSES TO PROSECUTION.
   It is a defense to prosecution or violation under this chapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school licensed by the state, or a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely, or partly, by taxation; or
   (B)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely, or partly, by taxation.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.310) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998)
§ 112.20 EXISTING BUSINESSES; COMPLIANCE TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons and
businesses described herein, whether the herein-described activities were
established before, or after, the effective date of the provisions codified in
this chapter and regardless of whether such persons and businesses are
currently licensed to do business in the city.
      (1)   All such persons and businesses requiring outcall service licenses
shall have 45 days from the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter, or until their current license expires, whichever occurs first in
time, to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   All semi-nude dancing agency licensees shall have 75 days from the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, or until their
license must be renewed, whichever occurs first, to comply with the provisions
of this chapter.
      (3)   All adult businesses and semi-nude entertainment businesses shall
have 135 days from the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter, or until their current license must be renewed, whichever occurs
first, to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   For the year 1998 to 1999, all businesses required by this chapter to
be licensed as sexually-oriented businesses shall be credited against the fees
required in the city fee schedule with the regulatory license fees paid for the
current 1998 to 1999 license, as applicable.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.320) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 INJUNCTIONS.
   An entity or individual who operates or causes a sexually-oriented business
to be operated without a valid license, or who employs, or is employed, as an
employee of a sexually-oriented business, or who operates such a business or
functions as such an employee in violation of the provisions of this chapter is
subject to a suit for injunction in addition to the civil and criminal
violations provided herein, and any other remedy available at law or in equity.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.330) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22 APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   The denial, suspension, or revocation of any license issued pursuant to this
chapter may be appealed to the Mayor of the city. The decision of the Mayor may
be appealed to the City Council. The decision of the City Council shall be
final. Appellants may be represented by counsel at their own expense
(Prior Code, § 5.16.360) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to revocation or suspension of a license, as provided in
this chapter, each violator, of this chapter shall, upon citation by the Mayor,
require the licensee to pay a civil penalty in the amount of $500. Such fines
shall be deducted from the cash bond posted pursuant to this chapter, unless
paid within ten days of notice of the fine or the final determination after any
appeal. In addition to the civil fines provided in this chapter, the violation
of any provision of this chapter shall be a Class B misdemeanor. Each day of a
violation shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Every act or omission by an employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the sexually-
oriented business licensee and/or operator, if such act or omission occurs
either with the authorization, knowledge, or approval of the licensee and/or
operator, or as a result of the licensee’s and/or operator’s negligent failure
to supervise the conduct of the employee, and the sexually-oriented business
licensee shall be punishable for such act or omission in the same manner as if
the licensee committed the act or caused the omission.
   (C)   A sexually-oriented business licensee and/or operator shall be
responsible for the conduct of all employees while on the licensed premises,
and any act or omission of any employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the licensee
and/or operator for the purposes of determining whether the licensee’s license
shall be revoked, suspended, or renewed.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.370) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998)
CHAPTER 113: TOBACCO SALE, CONSUMPTION
Section
   
113.01   No accessibility to minors
   
113.02   Requirements
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 NO ACCESSIBILITY TO MINORS.
   Pursuant to the provisions of UCA §§ 76-10-104 and 10-8-47, the City Council
finds that the health, welfare, and safety of the community requires that
cigars, cigarettes, or other tobacco products offered for sale within the city
should be kept in a location on the merchant’s premises such that said products
are not directly accessible to minors.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.030) (Ord. 1-97, passed 3-5-1997)
§ 113.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   All individuals or merchants offering tobacco products for sale within the
corporate boundaries of the city shall ensure that such products are placed, or
displayed, in such a manner so as to prevent direct access to such products by
minors.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.030) (Ord. 1-97, passed 3-5-1997) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any merchant who knowingly places, or displays, tobacco products in such a
manner so as to make them directly available or accessible to minors shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.030) (Ord. 1-97, passed 3-5-1997)
CHAPTER 114: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   General provisions
   
114.02   Findings and intent
   
114.03   Definitions
   
114.04   Franchise or license required
   
114.05   Compensation and other payments
   
114.06   Franchise and license applications
   
114.07   Construction and technical requirements
   
114.08   Franchise and license non-transferrable
   
114.09   Oversight and regulations
   
114.10   Rights of city
   
114.11   Rights of individuals
   
114.12   Public education and governmental access requirements
   
114.13   Federal, state, city jurisdiction
Rights-of-Way Regulations
   
114.25   General provisions
   
114.26   Findings and intent
   
114.27   Definitions
   
114.28   Franchise required
   
114.29   Compensation and other payments
   
114.30   Franchise applications
   
114.31   Construction and technical requirements
   
114.32   Franchise and license non-transferable
   
114.33   Oversight and regulation
   
114.34   Rights of city
   
114.35   Obligation to notify
   
114.36   Federal, state, city jurisdiction
Telecommunications Franchise Agreement Format
   
114.50   Franchise agreement and ordinance
   
114.51   Franchise fee
   
114.52   Term and renewal
   
114.53   Public use rights
   
114.54   Police powers
   
114.55   Changing conditions and severability
   
114.56   Early termination
   
114.57   Parties; designees
   
114.58   Provisions; franchise acknowledgment
Cross-reference:
   Zoning regulations of construction of personal telecommunications
facilities, see §§
157.925 through
157.938
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Conflicts. In the event of a conflict between any provision of this
chapter and a franchise or license entered pursuant to it, the provisions of
this chapter shall control.
   (B)   New developments. It shall be the policy of the city to liberally
amend this chapter, upon application of a provider, when necessary to enable
the provider to take advantage of any developments in the field of
telecommunications which will afford the provider an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently, or economically serve itself or the public.
   (C)   Notices. All notices from a provider to the city required under this
chapter, or pursuant to a franchise or license granted pursuant to this
chapter, shall be directed to the contact officer as may, from time to time, be
designated by the City Manager. A provider shall provide in any application for
a franchise or license the identity, address, and phone number of the
individual designated to receive notices from the city on behalf of the
provider.
   (D)   Regulation by the city. To the full extent permitted by applicable
law, either now or in the future, the city reserves the right to adopt or issue
such rules, regulations, orders, or other directives governing
telecommunications that it finds necessary or appropriate in the lawful
exercise of its police powers.
   (E)   “Most favored nation.” If a provider enters into a franchise or other
agreement regarding the use of rights-of-way with any other city in the state
that contains additional, enhanced, or more favorable terms to the city than
those included in a franchise or license granted pursuant to this chapter, that
provider shall, at the city’s request, agree to modify the franchise or license
to include such provisions.
(Prior Code, § 13.09.110) (Ord. 10-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.02 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   Declaration of findings and intent.
      (1)   The city finds that the public streets, alleys, easements, and
other rights-of-way within the city:
         (a)   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property
in the course and conduct of normal business and social life of the city;
         (b)   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
         (c)   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and
other public service entities delivering utilities and public services rendered
for profit to the enhancement of the health, welfare, and general economic
wellbeing of the city and its citizens;
         (d)   Are a unique and physically-limited resource requiring proper
management to maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the
taxpayers of the foregoing uses, and to minimize the inconvenience to, and
negative effects upon, the public from such facilities’ construction,
placement, relocation, and maintenance in the rights-of-way; and
         (e)   Are an asset of the city that taxpayers spent tax money to
repair, maintain, and improve.
      (2)   The city finds that the right to occupy portions of the rights-of-
way for limited times for the business of providing telecommunications services
or open video services is a valuable economic right to use a unique public
resource that has been acquired, and is maintained at great expense, to the
city and its taxpayers, and the economic benefit of such rights should be
shared with all the taxpayers of the city.
      (3)   The city finds that while telecommunications facilities are, in
part, an extension of interstate commerce, their operations also involve
rights-of-way, municipal franchising, and vital business and community services
which are of local concern.
      (4)   The city finds that it is in the best interests of its citizens to
promote the rapid development of telecommunications facilities responsive to
community and public interest, to assure that telecommunications companies
provide adequate, economical, and efficient service to their subscribers, and
to assure availability for municipal services, educational, and community
services.
      (5)   The city finds that it is in the interests of the public to
franchise or license, and to establish standards for franchising or licensing,
operators, infrastructure providers, resellers, and system lessees in a manner
that:
         (a)   Compensates the city for the fair market value of the property
used and for ongoing costs associated with the use of such property;
         (b)   Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions
under which providers may use valuable public property to serve the public;
         (c)   Fully protects the public and the city from any harm that may
flow from such private commercial use of rights-of-way;
         (d)   Protects the regulatory authority of the city, in a manner
consistent with federal and state law;
         (e)   Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and
use of the city infrastructure; and
         (f)   Protects the public’s investment in improvements in the rights-
of-way.
      (6)   The city adopts this telecommunications chapter pursuant to its
power to manage the rights-of-way and receive reasonable, nondiscriminatory
compensation for the use of rights-of-way by telecommunications providers, as
expressly set forth by §§ 253 and 653 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996
(hereinafter the “Act;” Pub. Law No. 104-104 and being 47 U.S.C. §§ 253 and
573) and Utah Constitution Art. XI.
   (B)   Scope of chapter. This chapter shall provide the basic local
regulatory scheme for providers of telecommunications services, including
providers of only the physical plant necessary to operate a communications
system, unless otherwise expressly excluded. This chapter shall apply to all
related providers, whether operating with, or without, a franchise or license.
Providers maintaining a presence in the right-of-way, or other public property,
pursuant to an ordinance granted by the city prior to the effective date of
this chapter, or maintaining a presence without such consent, shall comply with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Excluded activity.
      (1)   This chapter shall not apply to cable television operators
otherwise regulated by prior city ordinance(s) and the progeny thereof
(hereinafter, the “Cable Television Ordinance”).
      (2)   Providers excused by other law that prohibits the city from
requiring a franchise or license shall not be required to obtain a franchise or
license, but all of the requirements impost by this chapter through the
exercise of the city’s police power and not preempted by other law shall be
applicable.
(Prior Code, § 13.09.010) (Ord. 10-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, and words in the plural number include the singular. The words
SHALL and WILL are mandatory, and MAY is permissive. Words not defined shall be
given their common and ordinary meaning.
   AFFILIATED PERSON. Each person who has, directly or indirectly, a
controlling interest in an operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, or
system lessee, and/or each person in which an operator, infrastructure
provider, or reseller has, directly or indirectly, a controlling interest;
provided, however, that AFFILIATED PERSON shall in no event mean the city.
   APPLICATION. The process by which a provider submits a request and indicates
a desire to be granted a franchise or license to utilize the rights-of-way of
all, or a part, of the city. An APPLICATION includes all written documentation,
verbal statements, and representations, in whatever form or forum made by a
provider, to the city concerning: the construction of a telecommunications
system or open video system over, under, on, or through the public rights-of-
way; the telecommunications services or open video services proposed to be
provided in the city by a provider; the area proposed to be served within the
city by a provider; the portion of the public rights-of-way proposed to be used
by a provider; the manner in which services are to be provided to consumers;
the rates to be charged for services provided through a proposed system; and
any other matter pertaining to a proposed system or service.
   CHAPTER or TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORDINANCE. The telecommunications chapter
concerning the granting of franchises and licenses in, and by, the city for the
construction, ownership, operation, or maintenance of a telecommunications
system open video system.
   CITY. The City of West Haven, Utah, or any board, bureau, authority, agency,
commission, department, or any other entity of the city, or any authorized
officer, official, employee, or agent thereof, including individual volunteers
or volunteer boards or commissions, or any successors thereto.
   COMPLETION DATE. The date that a provider begins providing services to
customers on the system.
   CONSTRUCTION COSTS. All costs of constructing a system, including make-ready
costs, other than engineering fees, attorney’s or accountant’s fees, or other
consulting fees.
   CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS. The telecommunications construction standards of the
city.
   CONTROL or CONTROLLING INTEREST. Actual working control in whatever manner
exercised, including, without limitation, working control through ownership,
management, debt instruments, or negative control, as the case may be, of the
system or of a provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of CONTROL
or a CONTROLLING INTEREST shall arise from the beneficial ownership, directly
or indirectly, by any person, or group of persons acting in concert, of more
than 5% of any provider (which person, or group of persons, is hereinafter
referred to as CONTROLLING PERSON). CONTROL or CONTROLLING INTEREST, as used
herein, may be held simultaneously by more than one person, or group of
persons.
   DARK FIBER. Fiber optic telecommunications cables or lines not currently
dedicated to transmit or receive information.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission, or any successor thereto.
   FIBER. Fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable, or other
transmission medium that may be used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.
   FRANCHISE. The rights and obligations extended by the city to a provider to
own, lease, construct, maintain, or operate a system in the rights-of-way
within the boundaries of the city for the purpose of providing services in the
city. Any such authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not mean or
include:
      (1)   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the city required by the
ordinances and laws of the city; and
      (2)   Any permit, agreement, or authorization required in connection with
operations on public streets or property, including, without limitation,
permits and agreements for placing devices on, or in, poles, conduits, or other
structures, whether owned by the city or a private entity, or for excavating or
performing other work in, or along, public rights-of-away.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. A contract entered into in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter between the city and a franchisee that sets forth,
subject to this chapter, the terms and conditions under which a franchise will
be exercised.
   FRANCHISE AREA or LICENSE AREA. The area served by the franchisee or
licensee, and described in a franchise agreement or license.
   GROSS REVENUE. All revenue received, directly or indirectly, by a franchisee
or by any affiliated person from, or in connection with, any telecommunications
services or open video services that originate in, and/or terminate in, or
transit the city, including revenue derived from the sale or lease of equipment
and/or facilities provided by a franchisee or any affiliated person if such
facilities and/or equipment are required for, and integrated with, the services
provided by the franchisee, and any revenue derived from interconnecting
telecommunications service providers for services provided by the franchisee;
provided, however, that GROSS REVENUE shall not include taxes collected to pay
to legitimate taxing authorities; and, provided further, that a franchisee may
deduct from its gross revenues, revenues received from a reseller/lessee or
reseller that submits a certification stating that it has paid the fees it owes
the city for the applicable reporting period.
   INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing communications services to customers, all or part of the necessary
physical plant, including fiber, which uses the rights-of-way.
   INITIAL SYSTEM. The system depicted in Exhibit A to the franchise.
   LICENSE. The rights and obligations extended by the city to a provider to
own, construct, maintain, lease, or operate a system in the rights-of-way
within the boundaries of the city for the sole purpose of providing services to
persons or areas outside the city. Any such authorization, in whatever form
granted, shall not mean or include:
      (1)   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the city required by the
ordinances and laws of the city; or
      (2)   Any permit, agreement, or authorization required in connection with
operations on public streets or property, including, without limitation,
permits and agreements for placing devices on, or in, poles, conduits, or other
structures, whether owned by the city or a private entity, or for excavating or
performing other work in, or along, public rights-of-way.
   OPEN VIDEO SERVICE. Any video programming services provided to any person
through the use of rights-of-way by a provider that is certified by the FCC to
operate an open video system pursuant to §§ 651 et seq. of the
Telecommunications Act (47 U.S.C. §§ 571 et seq.), regardless of the facilities
used.
   OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM. The system of cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides,
optic fibers, microwaves, laser beams, and any associated converters,
equipment, or facilities designed and constructed for the purpose of producing,
receiving, amplifying, or distributing open video services to, or from,
subscribers or locations within the city.
   OPERATOR. Any person who provides service over a communications transmission
system and directly, or through one or more affiliates, owns a significant
interest in such facility, or who otherwise controls, or is responsible for,
the operation of such a system.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint stock
company, trust, or any other legal entity, but not the city.
   PROVIDER. An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, or system lessee.
   RESELLER. Any person that provides service over a facility for which a
separate charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the underlying
facility used for the transmission.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The surface of, and the space above and below, any public
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way of any type whatsoever, now or
hereafter existing as such within the city.
   SERVICE or TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE(S). Any telecommunications services
provided by a provider within the city that the provider is authorized to
provide under federal, state, and local law, and any equipment and/or
facilities required for, and integrated with, the services provided within the
city, except that these terms do not include “cable service” as defined in the
Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended by the Cable Television
Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.), and
the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (being Pub. Law No. 104-104).
   SIGNAL. Any transmission or reception of electronic, electrical, light, or
laser or radio frequency energy, or optical information in either analog or
digital format.
   SYSTEM. The open video system or wired communications system constructed,
operated, or maintained by any provider in the city, including, without
limitation, all real property and interests in real property, all tangible and
intangible personal property, buildings, offices, furniture, customer lists,
cables, wires, optical fibers, amplifiers, and all other electronic devices,
equipment, and facilities used in connection therewith and all rights,
contracts and understandings with regard to any matter related thereto, and
described in Exhibit A.
   SYSTEM LESSEE. Any person that leases a facility or a specific portion of a
facility to provide services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. The transmission between, or among, points specified by
the user, of information of the user’s choosing (for example, data, video, and
voice), without change in the form or content of the information sent and
received.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES or FACILITIES. All conduits, manholes, poles,
antennas, transceivers, cables (including fiber optic cables) and appurtenances
owned by a provider, located in the streets, utility easements, public
property, rights-of-way, and air space over rights-of-way, and utilized in the
provision of services, including fully-digital or analog, voice, data, and
video imaging and other enhanced telecommunications services.
   WIRED COMMUNICATIONS TRANSMISSION SYSTEM or WIRED COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM. A
facility consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and associated signal
generation, reception, and control equipment that is designed and used for the
transmission of video, voice, or data signals, which facility occupies public
streets, alleys, or rights-of-way, or other public places within the city,
other than cable communications systems, wireless communications systems, and
open video systems.
(Prior Code, § 13.09.020) (Ord. 10-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.04 FRANCHISE OR LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   General. The city is empowered and authorized to issue, in accordance
with Utah Constitution Art. XI, and other applicable statutory provisions,
nonexclusive franchises and/or licenses governing the installation,
construction, operation, and maintenance of systems in the city’s rights-of-
way.
   (B)   Every provider must obtain. Every provider must obtain a franchise
prior to constructing a telecommunications facility or providing
telecommunications services, and every provider must obtain a franchise before
constructing an open video system or providing services via an open video
system. The fact that a particular communications facility may be used for
multiple purposes does not obviate the need to obtain a franchise for other
purposes. By way of illustration and not limitation, a cable operator of a
cable system must obtain a cable franchise, and, should it intend to provide
telecommunications services over the same facilities, must also obtain a
telecommunications franchise.
   (C)   Exceptions. A franchise may be waived for a facility or system that is
not designed to provide services in the city, and that does not provide
services in the city; or a facility, such as an antenna, where the use of the
rights-of-way is de minimis. For such facilities, the city may issue a license.
Every license shall require the provider owning or operating the facility to
obtain a franchise if it is determined that the license is being used in a
manner that creates a competitive advantage for that provider, or otherwise
unduly discriminates in favor of such provider.
   (D)   Nature of grant. Neither a franchise nor a license shall convey title,
equitable or legal, in the rights-of-way of the city. A franchise or license is
only the right to occupy rights-of-way in the franchise area or license area
for the purposes, and for the period, stated in the franchise or license; the
right may not be subdivided or subleased. Neither a franchise nor license
excuses a provider from obtaining appropriate access or pole attachment
agreements before collocating its facilities on the facilities of others,
including the city’s facilities.
   (E)   Current operators, infrastructure providers, resellers, and system
lessees. Any provider acting without a franchise or license on the effective
date of this chapter shall request issuance of a franchise or license from the
city within 90 days of the effective date of this chapter. If such request is
made, the provider may continue providing service during the course of
negotiations. If a timely request is not made, or if negotiations cease and a
franchise or license is not granted, the provider shall comply with the
provisions of §
114.34(D).
   (F)   Nature of franchise or license. The franchise or license granted by
the city under the provisions of this chapter shall be in the nature of a
nonexclusive franchise or license providing the right and consent to install,
operate, repair, maintain, remove, and replace fiber and related equipment and
facilities on, over, and under the rights-of-way of the city in order to
provide services that originate and/or terminate in, or transit, the franchise
area or license area.
   (G)   Regulatory approval needed. Before offering or providing any services
pursuant to the franchise or license, a provider shall obtain any and all
regulatory approvals, permits, authorizations, or licenses for the offering or
provision of such services from the appropriate federal, state, and local
authorities, if required, and shall submit to the city, upon the written
request of the city, evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations,
or licenses.
   (H)   Other permits and agreements. A provider shall obtain and pay for all
pole attachment agreements, and construction, building, road cut, or other
permits or approvals necessary under federal, state, or city law or ordinance,
before installing fiber or related equipment and facilities.
   (I)   Term. No franchise or license issued pursuant to this chapter shall
have a term of less than five years nor greater than 15 years.
(Prior Code, § 13.09.030) (Ord. 10-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.05 COMPENSATION AND OTHER PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Compensation.
      (1)   Compensation. As compensation for any franchise or license granted
pursuant to this chapter, a provider shall have the following obligations.
         (a)   Application fee. In addition to all other fees, permits, or
charges, a provider shall pay to the city at the time of application, or
amendment to its application, an application fee. The application fee is hereby
made a part of the West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule. The West Haven
City Consolidated Fee Schedule is hereby adopted by reference.
         (b)   Franchise. The obligation to pay franchise or license fees shall
commence on the completion date. For purposes of this section, the COMPLETION
DATE shall be the date of completion of the initial system. Commencing on the
completion date, a provider shall pay to the city as reimbursement for costs
associated with allowing access to, and as fair compensation for the use of,
the right-of-way the following:
            1.   As a fee for a franchise for a wired communications system, a
fee equal to 3.5% of gross revenues;
            2.   As a fee for a franchise for an open video system, a fee equal
to 3.5% of gross revenues; and
            3.   The city may, at its option, agree to accept excess capacity
on a system or other facilities in lieu of all, or part of, these fees.
      (2)   Timing. Unless otherwise agreed to in writing, all fees shall be
due and payable on a monthly basis within 15 days of the close of each calendar
month.
   (B)   Future costs. A provider shall pay to the city, or to third parties at
the direction of the city, an amount equal to the reasonable costs and expenses
that the city incurs for the services of third parties (including, but not
limited to, attorneys and other consultants) in connection with any renewal or
provider-initiated renegotiation, transfer, amendment, or other modification of
this chapter, or a franchise or license granted under the authority of this
chapter; provided, however, that in the case of renewal only, the parties shall
agree upon a reasonable financial cap at the outset of negotiations. Any costs
associated with any work to be done by the Power and Public Works Department to
provide space on city-owned poles shall be borne by the provider.
   (C)   Taxes and assessments. To the extent that taxes or other assessments
are imposed by taxing authorities on the use of the city property as a result
of a provider’s use or occupation of the rights-of-way, the provider shall be
responsible for payment of its pro rata share of such taxes, payable annually
unless otherwise required by the taxing authority. Such payments shall be in
addition to any other fees payable pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   Interest on late payments. In the event that any payment is not
actually received by the city on, or before, the applicable date fixed in the
franchise or license, interest thereon shall accrue from such date until
received at 18% per annum.
   (E)   Fee statement. Unless a franchise or license provides otherwise, each
fee payment shall be accompanied by a statement showing the manner in which the
fee was calculated.
   (F)   No accord and satisfaction. No acceptance by the city of any fee shall
be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount,
nor shall such acceptance of such fee payment be construed as a release of any
claim the city may have for additional sums payable.
   (G)   Not in lien of taxes. The fee payment is not a payment in lieu of any
tax, fee, or other assessment, except as specifically provided in this chapter,
or as may otherwise be required by applicable law. By way of example, and not
of limitation, permit fees and fees to obtain space on the city-owned poles are
not waived and remain applicable.
   (H)   Continuing obligation and holdover. In the event a provider continues
to operate all, or any part of, the system after the term of the franchise or
license, such operator shall continue to comply with all applicable provisions
of the franchise or license, including, without limitation, all compensation
and other payment provisions of the franchise or license, throughout the period
of such continued operation; provided, that any such continued operation shall,
in no way, be construed as a renewal or other extension of the franchise or
license, nor as a limitation on the remedies, if any, available to the city as
a result of such continued operation after the term, including, but not limited
to, damages and restitution.
   (I)   Costs of publication. A provider shall assume any publication costs
associated with its franchise or license that may be required by law.
(Prior Code, § 13.09.040) (Ord. 10-98, passed 5-20-1998; Ord. 13-2024, passed
5-15-2024)
§ 114.06 FRANCHISE AND LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   To obtain a franchise or license to construct, own, operate, maintain,
or provide services through any system within the city, to expand a
franchisee’s current permitted franchise area or expand a licensee’s current
permitted license area, to obtain a renewal of a franchise or license granted
pursuant to this chapter, or to obtain the city approval of a sale, transfer,
lease, sublet, or other disposal of a system, franchise, or license granted
pursuant to this chapter, an application must be filed with the city on the
form attached to this chapter as Exhibit A, which is hereby incorporated by
reference.
   (B)   In making a determination as to an application filed pursuant to this
chapter, the city may, but shall not be limited to, consider the following:
      (1)   The provider’s financial ability to compensate the city for the
provider’s intrusion, maintenance, and use of the public rights-of-way during
the franchise or license term proposed by the provider;
      (2)   The provider’s financial ability to operate a telecommunications
system or open video system in a manner which protects, and makes efficient use
of, the public rights-of-way;
      (3)   The provider’s compliance with the terms and conditions of federal,
state, and local laws in other jurisdictions where it operates;
      (4)   Whether the provider has secured all certificates and other
authorizations required by federal, state, and local law in order to construct
and operate a telecommunications system or open video system in the manner
proposed by the provider;
      (5)   The technical ability of the provider to construct, maintain, and
operate a system in compliance with federal, state, and local laws in a manner
which protects and makes efficient use of the public rights-of-way and, if
applicable, in a manner which results in the provision of safe, reliable
services during the term proposed by the provider;
      (6)   The capacity of the rights-of-way to accommodate the provider’s
proposed facilities;
      (7)   The capacity of the rights-of-way to accommodate additional utility
and telecommunications facilities if the franchise or license is granted;
      (8)   The damage to, or disruption, if any, of public or private
facilities, improvements, or landscaping if the franchise or license is
granted;
      (9)   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the rights-of-way;
      (10)   The nature and scope of the service that the provider will provide
to the community and region;
      (11)   The effect, if any, on public health, safety, and welfare if the
franchise or license is granted;
      (12)   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the
proposed facilities;
      (13)   Applicable federal and state telecommunications laws, regulations,
and policies;
      (14)   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the
rights-of-way will serve the community interest; and
      (15)   The willingness to enter into a pole attachment agreement with the
city.
   (C)   The city, in its discretion, shall determine the award of any
franchise or license on the basis of these, and other, relevant considerations
without competitive bidding.
   (D)   The city may grant one or more franchises in a franchise area, or one
or more licenses in a license area. The city may, in its sole discretion, limit
the number of franchises or licenses granted, based upon, but not necessarily
limited to, specific local considerations, such as:
      (1)   The capacity of the rights-of-way to accommodate multiple fibers in
addition to the cables, conduits, and pipes of other users of the rights-of-
way, such as electrical power, telephone, gas, and sewage utilities.
      (2)   The impact that an additional grant may have on rights-of-way,
particularly the disruption arising from numerous excavations of the rights-of-
way.
(Prior Code, § 13.09.050) (Ord. 10-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.07 CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirement. No provider shall receive a franchise or license
unless it agrees to comply with each of the terms set forth in this section
governing construction and technical requirements for its system, in addition
to any other requirements or procedures specified by the city, the franchise,
or license, including requirements regarding co-location and cost sharing.
   (B)   Quality. All work involved in the construction, operation,
maintenance, repair, upgrade, and removal of the system shall be performed in a
safe, thorough, reliable, and workmanlike manner using materials of good and
durable quality. If, at any time, it is determined by the city, or any other
agency or authority of competent jurisdiction, that any part of the system,
including, without limitation, any means used to distribute signals over, or
within, the system, is harmful to the public health, safety, or welfare, or the
quality of service or reliability, then a provider shall, at its own cost and
expense, promptly correct all such conditions.
   (C)   Licenses and permits. Nothing in this chapter, or any franchise or
license granted hereunder, shall constitute, or be deemed to constitute,
authority or permission from the city for a provider to use private property.
Each provider shall have the sole responsibility for diligently obtaining, at
its own cost and expense, all permits, licenses, or other forms of approval or
authorization necessary to construct, operate, maintain, upgrade, or repair the
system, including, but not limited to, any necessary approvals from persons
and/or the city to use private property, easements, poles, and conduits. A
provider shall obtain any required permit, license, approval, or authorization,
including, but not limited to, road cut permits, pole attachment agreements,
and the like, prior to the commencement of the activity for which the permit,
license, approval, or authorization is required. Permission for access to
private property shall be obtained consistent with the requirements of §
114.35.
   (D)   Relocation of the system.
      (1)   If the grades or lines of any rights-of-way within the franchise or
license area are changed at any time in a manner affecting the system, then a
provider shall, at its own cost and expense and upon reasonable notice by the
city, promptly protect or promptly alter or relocate the system, or part
thereof, so as to conform with such new grades or lines. In the event that a
provider unreasonably refuses or neglects to so protect, alter, or relocate all
or part of the system, the city shall have the right to break through, remove,
alter, or relocate such part of the system without any liability to a provider,
and a provider shall pay to the city the costs, including overhead, incurred in
connection with such breaking through, removal, alteration, or relocation.
      (2)   The city may, at any time, in case of fire, disaster, or other
emergency, as determined by the city in its sole and reasonable discretion, cut
or move any poles, optical fibers, wires, cables, amplifiers, materials,
equipment, appliances, or other parts of the system and appurtenances on, over,
or under the rights-of-way of the city, in which event, the city shall not be
liable therefor to a provider. The city shall notify a provider in writing
prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon as possible, and in no case
later than the next business day following any action taken under this section.
      (3)   A provider shall, upon prior written notice by the city or any
person holding a permit to move any structure, and within the time that is
reasonable under the circumstances, temporarily move any part of its system to
permit the moving of said structure. A provider may impose a reasonable charge
on any person other than the city for any such movement of its wires or
affected facilities or structures.
   (E)   Protect structures. In connection with the construction, operation,
maintenance, repair, upgrade, or removal of the system, a provider shall, at
its own cost and expense, protect any and all existing structures belonging to
the city and all designated landmarks, as well as all other structures within
any designated landmark district. A provider shall obtain the prior written
consent of the city to alter any water main, power facility, sewerage, or
drainage system, or any other municipal structure on, over, or under the
rights-of-way of the city required because of the presence of the system. Any
such alteration shall be made by the city, or its designee, on a reimbursable
basis. A provider agrees that it shall be liable for the costs incurred by the
city to replace or repair and restore to its prior condition, in a manner as
may be reasonably specified by the city, any municipal structure, or any other
rights-of-way of the city involved in the construction, operation, maintenance,
repair, upgrade, or removal of the system that may become disturbed or damaged
as a result of any work thereon by, or on behalf of, a provider pursuant to the
franchise or license.
   (F)   No obstruction. In connection with the construction, operation,
maintenance, upgrade, repair, or removal of the system, a provider shall not
unreasonably obstruct the rights-of-way of the city, subways, fixed guideway
systems, railways, passenger travel, or other traffic to, from, or within the
franchise or license area without the prior consent of the appropriate
authorities.
   (G)   Safety precautions. A provider shall, at its own cost and expense,
undertake all necessary and appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its
work sites, including the placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences,
barricades, security personnel, and suitable and sufficient lighting, and such
other requirements prescribed by OSHA and the State OSHA franchise, or the
licensee shall comply with all applicable federal, state, and local
requirements including, but not limited to, the National Electric Safety Code.
   (H)   Repair. Any rights-of-way within the city which are disturbed or
damaged during the construction, operation, maintenance, or reconstruction of a
provider’s telecommunications system or open video system shall be repaired by
the city at the provider’s expense, on a reimbursable basis, to a condition as
good as that prevailing before such work was commenced.
   (I)   City may repair. Upon the failure, refusal, or neglect of a provider
to comply with the provisions of this chapter, the Council, after reasonable
notice is given to such a provider, may cause the work or other activity
required by this chapter to be completed or performed, in whole or in part, to
the satisfaction of the city. Upon so doing, the city shall submit to such a
provider an itemized statement of the cost for repairing and restoring the
public rights-of-way upon which the provider has intruded. The provider shall,
within 30 days after receipt of the statement, pay to the city the entire
amount thereof.
   (J)   System maintenance. A provider shall:
      (1)   Install and maintain all parts of its system in good condition
throughout the entire period of its franchise or license;
      (2)   Install and maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent
engineering practices and shall conform, when applicable, with the National
Electrical Safety Code and all applicable other federal, state, and local laws
or regulations; and
      (3)   At all reasonable times, permit examination by any duly-authorized
representative of the city of the system, together with any appurtenant
property of a provider situated within or without the city.
   (K)   Trimming of trees. A provider shall have the authority to trim trees,
in accordance with all applicable utility restrictions, ordinances, and
easement restrictions, upon and hanging over public rights-of-way so as to
prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with its system. The
City Public Works Department representatives shall have authority to supervise
and approve all trimming of trees conducted by a provider.
(Prior Code, § 13.09.060) (Ord. 10-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.08 FRANCHISE AND LICENSE NON-TRANSFERRABLE.
   (A)   No sale allowed. A provider shall not sell, transfer, lease, assign,
sublet, or dispose of, in whole or in part, either by forced or involuntary
sale, or by ordinary sale, consolidation, or otherwise, a franchise or license
granted pursuant to this chapter or any of the rights or privileges granted
thereby, without the prior written consent of the city. This provision shall
not apply to sales of property or equipment by a provider in the normal course
of business. No consent from the city shall be required for a transfer in
trust, mortgage, or other instrument of hypothecation, in whole or in part, to
secure an indebtedness, or for a pro forma transfer to a corporation,
partnership, or other entity controlling, controlled by, or under common
control with a provider.
   (B)   Events of sale. The following events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment, or other transfer of the franchise or license requiring compliance
with this section:
      (1)   The sale, assignment, or other transfer of all, or a majority, of a
provider’s assets to another person;
      (2)   The sale, assignment, or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership, or other equity interests in a provider by one or more
of its existing shareholders, partners, members, or other equity owners so as
to create a new controlling interest in a provider;
      (3)   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership,
membership, or other equity interest by a provider so as to create a new
controlling interest in such a provider; and
      (4)   The entry by a provider into an agreement with respect to the
management or operation of such provider, or its telecommunications system or
open video system. The term CONTROLLING INTEREST, as used herein, means
majority equity ownership of a provider.
   (C)   Right of first refusal. In the event a provider wishes to sell its
system, or any part thereof, the city shall have a right of first refusal to
purchase such system on the same terms and conditions offered to, and
acceptable to, any other prospective buyer. The city shall have a period of not
less than 60 days from the receipt of notice of such terms and conditions to
exercise this right of first refusal.
(Prior Code, § 13.09.070) (Ord. 10-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.09 OVERSIGHT AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Insurance, indemnity, and security. Prior to the execution of a
franchise or license, a provider will deposit with the city an irrevocable,
unconditional letter of credit and/or surety bond as required by the terms of
the franchise or license, and shall obtain, and provide proof of, the insurance
coverage required by the franchise or license. A provider shall also indemnity
the city as set forth in the franchise or license.
   (B)   Oversight. The city shall have the right to oversee, regulate, and
inspect periodically the construction, maintenance, operation, and upgrade of
the system, and any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of the
franchise or license and applicable law. A provider shall establish and
maintain managerial and operational records, standards, procedures, and
controls to enable a provider to prove, in reasonable detail, to the
satisfaction of the city at all times throughout the term, that a provider is
in compliance with the franchise or license. A provider shall retain such
records for not less than ten years following their creation, and for such
additional period as the city may direct.
   (C)   Maintain records. A provider shall, at all, times maintain;
      (1)   On file with the city, a full and complete set of plans, records,
and as-built hard copy maps, or in electronic format compatible with the city’s
existing GIS system, of all existing and proposed installations and the types
of equipment and facilities installed or constructed, properly identified and
described as to the types of equipment and facility by appropriate symbols and
marks, which shall include annotations of all rights-of-way where work will be
undertaken. Maps shall be drawn to scale.
      (2)   If requested by the city, a summary of service calls, identifying
the number, general nature, and disposition of such calls, on a monthly basis.
A summary of such service calls shall be submitted to the city within 30 days
following its request in a form reasonably acceptable to the city.
      (3)   Throughout the term of any franchise or license issued in
accordance with the terms of this chapter, a provider shall maintain complete
and accurate books of account and records of the business, ownership, and
operations of a provider with respect to the system in a manner that allows the
city, at all times, to determine whether a provider is in compliance with the
franchise or license. Should the city reasonably determine that the records are
not being maintained in such a manner, a provider shall alter the manner in
which the books and/or records are maintained so that a provider comes into
compliance with this section. All financial books and records which are
maintained in accordance with the regulations of the FCC and any governmental
entity that regulates utilities in the state, and generally accepted accounting
principles shall be deemed to be acceptable under this section. A provider
shall also maintain and provide such additional books and records as the city
deems reasonably necessary to ensure proper accounting of all payments due the
city.
   (D)   Reports.
      (1)   A provider shall submit to the city reports describing, in detail,
the status of the construction of the initial system every six months until its
substantial completion. A provider shall, upon substantial completion of the
initial system, notify the city in writing. If the scope of the initial system
is expanded, a provider shall likewise report every six months on the state of
continuation of expansion.
      (2)   A provider shall submit to the city not later than 90 days after
the end of each annual fiscal period a copy of a provider’s annual financial
statements for such period, which statements shall be signed by the chief
financial officer of a provider; provided, however, that the city may also
require such statements to be audited and certified by an independent certified
public accountant in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Further, within 90 days following the end of the calendar year, each provider,
which paid a franchise or license fee based upon gross revenues, shall submit a
statement, certified as true, setting forth gross revenues of the
communications facility, by category, and describing what revenues were
included and excluded in the fee calculation, and any adjustments made to gross
revenues. Such statements shall be accurate and complete.
      (3)   A provider shall provide annually to the department designated by
the city a list of any and all material communications, public reports,
petitions or other filings, either received from, or submitted to, any
municipal, county, state, or federal agency or official (and any response
thereto submitted by or received by a provider), which, in any way, materially
affects the operation of the system or any service, or a provider’s
representations and warranties set forth herein, or in any franchise or license
granted hereunder, but not including tax returns or other filings which are
confidential. Upon the request of the city, a provider shall promptly, but in
no case later than ten business days following the request, deliver to the city
a complete copy of any item on said list. Upon the request of the city, a
provider shall promptly submit to the city any information or report reasonably
related to a provider’s obligations under the franchise or license, its
business and operations, or those of any affiliated provider, with respect to
the system or its operation, or any service distributed over the system, in
such form and containing such information as the city shall specify. Such
information or report shall be accurate and complete.
   (E)   Confidentiality. If the information required to be submitted in an
annual report is proprietary in nature or must be kept confidential by federal,
state, or local law, upon proper request by a provider, such information shall
be treated as confidential, making it available only to those providers who
must have access to perform their duties on behalf of the city, including, but
not limited to, the Department of Finance, the office of the City Attorney, and
the Mayor and Council members; provided that a provider notifies the city oft
and clearly labels the information which a provider deems to be confidential,
proprietary information. Such notification and labeling shall be the sole
responsibility of franchisee or licensee. To the extent the Government Records
Management Access Act (GRAMA, being UCA Title 63G, Chapter 2), or any other
federal requirement for privacy, applies to the information to be submitted,
such law shall control.
   (F)    Provider’s expense. All reports and records required under this
chapter shall be furnished at the sole expense of a provider, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, a franchise, or a license.
   (G)   Right of inspection. The city’s designated representatives shall have
the right to inspect, examine, or audit during normal business hours and upon
reasonable notice to a provider, under the circumstances, all documents,
records, or other information which pertain to a provider or any affiliated
provider with respect to the system, its operation, its employment, and
purchasing practices. Services distributed over the system, and with respect to
a provider’s obligations pursuant to the franchise or license. All such
documents shall be made available within the city, or in such other place that
the city may agree upon, in writing, in order to facilitate said inspection,
examination, or audit; provided, however, that if such documents are located
outside of the city, then a provider shall pay the reasonable expenses incurred
by the city’s designated representatives in traveling to such location.
(Prior Code, § 13.09.080) (Ord. 10-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.10 RIGHTS OF CITY.
   (A)   Enforcement and remedies.
      (1)   The city is responsible for enforcing and administering this
chapter, and the city, or its designee, is authorized to give any notice
required by law or under any franchise or license.
      (2)   Any franchise or license granted pursuant to this chapter shall
contain appropriate provisions for enforcement, compensation, and protection of
the public, consistent with the other provisions of this chapter, including,
but not limited to, defining events of default, procedures for accessing the
bond/security fund, rights of termination or revocation, the rights of the city
to purchase a system in the event of revocation, termination, or non-renewal,
and the city’s right of first refusal to purchase a system in the event of a
voluntary transfer.
   (B)   Force majeure. In the event a provider’s performance of any of the
terms, conditions, or obligations required by this chapter, or a franchise or
license, is prevented by a cause or event not within a provider’s control, such
inability to perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions
shall be imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of this section, causes
or events not within the control of a provider shall include, without
limitation, but by way of example, acts of God, strikes, sabotage, riots or
civil disturbances, failure or loss of utilities, explosions, acts of public
enemies, and natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes, landslides, and
fires.
   (C)   Extended operation and continuity of services. Upon either expiration
or revocation of a franchise or license granted pursuant to this chapter, the
city shall have discretion to permit or require a provider to continue to
operate its system, or provide services for an extended period of time not to
exceed six months from the date of such expiration or revocation. A provider
shall continue to operate its system under the terms and conditions of this
chapter and the franchise or license granted pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   Removal or abandonment of franchise property.
      (1)   In the event that a provider shall be deemed to have abandoned such
facilities:
         (a)   The use of any facilities is discontinued for a continuous
period of 12 months;
         (b)   Any facilities have been installed in the rights-of-way without
complying with the requirements of this chapter, franchise, or license; or
         (c)   The provisions of §
114.28(E) are applicable and no franchise or license is granted.
      (2)   The city may, upon such terms as it, in its sole discretion, may
impose, give a provider written permission to abandon, without removing, any
system, facilities, or equipment laid, directly constructed, operated, or
maintained under a franchise or license. Unless such permission is granted or
unless otherwise provided in this chapter, a provider shall remove, within a
reasonable time, all abandoned facilities and shall restore, using prudent
construction standards, any affected rights-of-way to their former state at the
time such facilities and equipment were installed, so as not to impair their
usefulness. In removing its plant, structures, and equipment, a provider shall
refill, at its own expense, any excavation necessarily made by it and shall
leave all rights-of-way in as good a condition as that prevailing prior to such
removal without materially interfering with any electrical or telephone cables,
or other utility wires, poles or attachments. The city shall have the right to
inspect and approve the condition of the rights-of-way cables, wires,
attachments, and poles prior to, and after, removal. The liability, indemnity,
and insurance provisions of this chapter, and any security fund provided in a
franchise or license, shall continue in full force and effect during the period
of removal and until full compliance by a provider with the terms and
conditions of this section.
      (3)   Upon abandonment of any facilities in place, a provider, if
required by the city, shall submit to the city a written instrument,
satisfactory in form to the city, transferring to the city the ownership of the
facilities abandoned.
      (4)   At the expiration of the term for which a franchise or license is
granted, or upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as provided for by this
chapter, or in any such case without renewal, extension, or transfer. The city
shall have the right to require a provider to remove, at its expense, all
aboveground portions of a telecommunications system or open video system from
the public rights-of-way within a reasonable period of time, which shall not be
less than 180 days.
      (5)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this chapter,
a provider may abandon any underground facilities in place so long as it does
not materially interfere with the use of the rights-of-way or with the use
thereof by any public utility, cable operator, or other person; provided that
the written instrument, as required by division (D)(3) above, transferring to
the city the ownership of the facilities abandoned, has been tendered to the
city, as required.
(Prior Code, § 13.09.090) (Ord. 10-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.11 RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   No discrimination. A provider shall not deny service, deny access, or
otherwise discriminate against any other person on the basis of race, color,
religion, national origin, disability, age, gender, or sexual preference. A
provider shall comply at all times with all other applicable federal, state,
and local laws and regulations relating to nondiscrimination.
   (B)   Equal employment. A provider shall adhere to the applicable equal
employment opportunity requirements of federal, state, and local laws, as now
written or as amended from time to time.
   (C)   Privacy. A provider shall adhere to subscriber privacy laws and shall
take reasonable steps to prevent the invasion of a person’s right of privacy or
other personal rights through the use of the system, as such rights are
delineated or defined by applicable law. A provider shall not, without lawful
court order or other legal authority, utilize a system’s interactive two-way
equipment or capability for unauthorized personal surveillance of any person.
   (D)   Easements. No fiber, or other piece of equipment owned by a provider,
shall be installed by a provider on another person’s private property, other
than in appropriate easements, without first securing consent. If a person
requests a service, permission to install facilities necessary for providing
the requested service upon such person’s private property shall be presumed.
Where a property owner, or his, her, or its predecessor has granted an
easement, including a public utility easement or a servitude, to another and
the servitude by its terms contemplates a use such as a provider’s intended
use, such provider shall not be required to obtain the written permission of
the owner for the installation of the system.
   (E)   Publicizing work.
      (1)   A provider shall publicize the initial build or any substantial
rebuild, upgrade, or extension of its facility that involves work in the
rights-of-way in each affected neighborhood at least one week prior to
commencement of that work by causing written notice of such construction work
to be delivered to the city, and by notifying those persons whose property is
within 300 feet of the work in at least two of the following ways: by
telephone, in person, by mail, by distribution of flyers through residences, by
publication in local newspapers, or in any other manner reasonably calculated
to provide adequate notice.
      (2)   Apart from any initial build or substantial rebuild or upgrade, any
underground construction will be publicized in accordance with applicable
notice requirements.
      (3)   In other cases, before entering onto any person’s property, a
provider shall contact the property owner or (in the case of residential
property) the resident at least one day in advance, and describe, with
reasonable specificity, the work to be performed.
(Prior Code, § 13.09.100) (Ord. 10-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.12 PUBLIC EDUCATION AND GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   Any provider that operates an open video system will comply with all
applicable FCC rules regarding support for public educational and governmental
access.
(Prior Code, § 13.09.120) (Ord. 10-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.13 FEDERAL, STATE, CITY JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent with all
applicable federal and state statutes.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all franchises and licenses granted or
renewed after the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   Unless otherwise agreed to by the city, this chapter shall further
apply to the extent permitted by applicable federal or state statutes to all
existing franchises and licenses granted prior to the effective date of this
chapter.
   (D)   A provider’s rights are subject to the police powers of the city to
adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety, and welfare of
the public.
   (E)   A provider shall comply with all applicable general laws and
ordinances enacted by the city pursuant to its police powers. In particular,
all providers shall comply with the city zoning and other land use requirements
pertaining to the placement and specifications of franchised or licensed
property.
   (F)   A provider shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any
of the provisions of this chapter, or any franchise or license granted pursuant
to this chapter, by reason of any failure of the city to enforce prompt
compliance.
   (G)   This chapter, and any franchise or license granted pursuant to this
chapter, shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the substantive
laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 13.09.130) (Ord. 10-98, passed 5-20-1998)
RIGHTS-OF-WAY REGULATIONS
§ 114.25 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Conflicts. In the event of a conflict between any provision of this
subchapter and a franchise entered pursuant to it, the provisions of this
subchapter in effect at the time the franchise is entered into shall control.
   (B)   New developments. It shall be the policy of the city to liberally
amend this subchapter, upon the application of a provider, when necessary to
enable the provider to take advantage of any developments in the field of
telecommunications which will afford the provider an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently, or economically serve itself or the public.
   (C)   Notices. All notices from a provider to the city required under this
subchapter, or pursuant to a franchise granted pursuant to this subchapter,
shall be directed to the officer as designated by the Mayor (or his or her
designee). A provider shall provide, in any application for a franchise, the
identity, address, and phone number to receive notices from the city. A
provider shall immediately notify the city of any change in its name, address,
or telephone number.
   (D)   Exercise of police power. To the full extent permitted by applicable
law either now or in the future, the city reserves the right to adopt or issue
such rules, regulations, orders, or other directives that it finds necessary or
appropriate in the lawful exercise of its police powers.
(Prior Code, § 13.10.110) (Ord. 11-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.26 FINDING AND INTENT.
   (A)   Declaration of finding and intent.
      (1)   Findings regarding rights-of-way. The city finds that the rights-
of-way within the city:
         (a)   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property
in the business and social life of the city;
         (b)   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
         (c)   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and
other public service entities delivering utility and public services rendered
for profit, to the enhancement of the health, welfare, and general economic
wellbeing of the city and its citizens; and
         (d)   Are a unique and physically-limited resource requiring proper
management to maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the
taxpayers of the foregoing uses, and to minimize the inconvenience to, and
negative effects upon, the public from such facilities’ construction,
placement, relocation, and maintenance in the rights-of-way of the city.
      (2)   Finding regarding compensation. The city finds that the right to
occupy portions of the rights-of-way for limited times for the business of
providing telecommunications services is a valuable use of a unique public
resource that has been acquired and is maintained at great expense to the city
and its taxpayers, and, therefore, the taxpayers of the city should receive
fair and reasonable compensation for use of the rights-of-way.
      (3)   Finding regarding local concern. The city finds that while
telecommunications systems are, in part, an extension of interstate commerce,
their operations also involve rights-of-way, municipal franchising, and vital
business and community service, which are of local concern.
      (4)   Finding regarding promotion of telecommunications services. The
city finds that it is in the best interests of its taxpayers and citizens to
promote the rapid development of telecommunications services, on a
nondiscrimination basis, responsive to community and public interests, and to
assure availability for municipal, educational, and community services.
      (5)   Findings regarding franchise standards. The city finds that it is
in the interests of the public to franchise and to establish standards for
franchising providers in a manner that:
         (a)   Fairly and reasonably compensates the city on a competitively
neutral and nondiscriminatory basis, as provided herein;
         (b)   Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions
under which providers may use valuable public property to serve the public;
         (c)   Fully protects the public interests and the city from any harm
that may flow from such commercial use of rights-of-way;
         (d)   Protects the police powers and rights-of-way management
authority of the city in a manner consistent with federal and state law;
         (e)   Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and
use of the city infrastructure;
         (f)   Protects the public’s investment in improvements in the rights-
of-way; and
         (g)   Ensures that no barriers to entry of telecommunications
providers are created, and that such franchising is accomplished in a manner
that does not prohibit, or have the effect of prohibiting, telecommunications
services within the meaning of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Pub. Law No.
104-104; hereinafter the “Act”).
      (6)   Power to manage rights-of-way. The city adopts this
telecommunications subchapter pursuant to its power to:
         (a)   Manage city rights-of-way, pursuant to common law, the Utah
Constitution, and relevant statutory authority; and
         (b)   Receive fair and reasonable, compensation for the use of rights-
of-way by providers as expressly set forth by § 253 of the Act, being 47 U.S.C.
§ 253.
   (B)   Scope of subchapter. This subchapter shall provide the basic local
scheme for providers of telecommunications services and systems that require
the use of the rights-of-way, including providers of both the system and
service, those providers of the system only, and those providers who do not
build the system but who only provide services. This subchapter shall apply to
all future providers and to all providers in the city prior to the effective
date of this subchapter, whether operating with, or without, a franchise as set
forth in §
114.50(B).
   (C)   Excluded activity.
      (1)   Cable television. This subchapter shall not apply to cable
television operators otherwise regulated by city Ords. 650, 656, 675, and their
progeny (the “Cable Television Ordinance”).
      (2)   Wireless services. This subchapter shall not apply to personal
wireless service facilities.
      (3)   Provisions applicable to excluded providers. Providers excused by
other law that prohibits the city from requiring a franchise shall not be
required to obtain a franchise, but all of the requirements imposed by this
subchapter through the exercise of the city’s police power and not preempted by
other law shall be applicable.
(Prior Code, § 13.10.010) (Ord. 11-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.27 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, and words in the plural number include the singular. The word
SHALL and WILL are mandatory, and MAY is permissive. Words not defined shall be
given their common and ordinary meaning.
   APPLICATION. The process by which a provider submits a request and indicates
a desire to be granted a franchise to utilize the rights-of-way of all, or a
part, of the city. An APPLICATION includes all written documentation, verbal
statements, and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by a provider
to the city concerning: the construction of a telecommunications system over,
under, on or through the rights-of-way; the telecommunications services
proposed to be provided in the city by a provider; and any other matter
pertaining to a proposed system or service.
   CITY. The city of West Haven, Utah.
   COMPLETION DATE. The date that a provider begins providing services to
customers in the city.
   CONSTRUCTION COSTS. All costs of constructing a system, including make-ready
costs, other than engineering fees, attorney’s or accountant’s fees, or other
consulting fees.
   CONTROL or CONTROLLING INTEREST. Actual working control in whatever manner
exercised, including, without limitation, working control through ownership,
management, debt instruments, or negative control, as the case may be, of the
system or of a provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of CONTROL
or a CONTROLLING INTEREST shall arise from the beneficial ownership, directly
or indirectly, by any person, or group of persons acting in concert, of more
than 25% of any provider (which person or group of persons is hereinafter
referred to as CONTROLLING PERSON). CONTROL or CONTROLLING INTEREST, as used
herein, may be held simultaneously by more than one person or group of persons.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission, or any successor thereto.
   FRANCHISE. The rights and obligation extended by the city to a provider to
own, lease, construct, maintain, use, or operate a system in the rights-of-way
within the boundaries of the city. Any such authorization, in whatever form
granted, shall not mean or include:
      (1)   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the city required by the
ordinances and laws of the city;
      (2)   Any other permit, agreement, or authorization required in
connection with operations on rights-of-way or public property, including,
without limitation, permits and agreements for placing devices on, or in,
poles, conduits, or other structures, whether owned by the city or a private
entity, or for excavating or performing other work in, or along, the rights-of-
way.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. A contract entered into in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter between the city and a franchisee that sets
forth, subject to this subchapter, the terms and conditions under which a
franchise will be exercised.
   GROSS REVENUE. All revenues of a provider that may be included as gross
revenue within the meaning of UCA Title 11, Chapter 26, as amended, or any
successor provisions thereto.
   INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunications services to customers, all or part of the
necessary system which uses the rights-of-way.
   OPEN VIDEO SERVICE. Any video programming services provided to any person
through the use of rights-of-way, by a provider that is certified by the FCC to
operate an OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM pursuant to §§ 651 et seq. of the
Telecommunications Act (47 U.S.C. § 571), regardless of the system used.
   OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM. The system of cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides,
optic fiber, microwaves, laser beams, and any associated converters, equipment,
or facilities designed and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving,
amplifying, or distributing open video services to, or from, subscribers or
locations within the city.
   OPERATOR. Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system
and directly, or through one or more persons, owns a controlling interest in
such system, or who otherwise controls, or is responsible for the operation of,
such a system.
   ORDINANCE or TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORDINANCE. This telecommunications
subchapter concerning the granting of franchises in, and by, the city for the
construction, ownership, operation, use, or maintenance of a telecommunications
system.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint stock
company, trust, or any other legal entity, but not the city.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES FACILITIES. The same meaning as provided in § 704
of the Act (47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(c)), which includes what is commonly known as
cellular and PCS services that do not install any system, or portion of a
system, in the rights-of-way.
   PROVIDER. An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, or system lessee.
   PSC. The Public Service Commission, or any successor thereto.
   RESELLER. Any person that provides local exchange service over a system for
which a separate charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the
underlying system used for the transmission.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The surface of, and the space above and below, any public
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way of any type whatsoever now or
hereafter existing as such within the city.
   SIGNAL. Any transmission or reception of electronic, electrical, light, or
laser or radio frequency energy or optical information in either analog or
digital format.
   SYSTEM LESSEE. Any person that leases a system, or a specific portion of a
system, to provide services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. The transmission between, or among, points specified by
the user, of information of the user’s choosing (for example, data, video, and
voice), without change in the form or content of the information sent and
received.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE(S) or SERVICES. Any telecommunications services
provided by a provider within the city that the provider is authorized to
provide under federal, state, and local law, and any equipment and/or
facilities required for, and integrated with, the services provided within the
city, except that these terms do not include “cable service” as defined in the
Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended by the Cable Television
Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.), and
the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (being Pub. Law No. 104-104).
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE OR SERVICES also includes an OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM or SYSTEM. All conduits, manholes, poles,
antennas, transceivers, amplifiers, and all other electronic devices,
equipment, wires, and appurtenances owned, leased, or used by a provider,
located in the rights-of-way and utilized in the provision of services,
including fully digital or analog voice, data, and video imaging, and other
enhanced telecommunications services. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEMS also
includes an OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM.
   WIRE. Fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable, or other
transmission medium that may be used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.
(Prior Code, § 13.10.020) (Ord. 11-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.28 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Nonexclusive franchise. The city is empowered and authorized to issue
nonexclusive franchises governing the installation, construction, and
maintenance of systems in the city’s rights-of-way, in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter. The franchise is granted through a franchise
agreement entered into between the city and provider.
   (B)   Every provider must obtain. Except to the extent preempted by federal
or state law, as may ultimately be interpreted by a court of competent
jurisdiction, including any appeals, every provider must obtain a franchise
prior to constructing a telecommunications system or providing
telecommunications services using the rights-of-way, and every provider must
obtain a franchise before constructing an open video system or providing open
video services via an open video system. Any open video system or service shall
be subject to the customer service and consumer protection provisions
applicable to the cable television companies to the extent the city is not
preempted or permitted as ultimately interpreted by a court of competent
jurisdiction, including any appeals. The fact that particular
telecommunications systems may be used for multiple purposes does not obviate
the need to obtain a franchise for other purposes. By way of illustration and
not limitation, a cable operator of a cable system must obtain a cable
franchise, and, should it intend to provide telecommunications services over
the same system, must also obtain a telecommunications franchise.
   (C)   Nature of grant. A franchise shall not convey title, equitable or
legal, in the rights-of-way. A franchise is only the right to occupy rights-of-
way on a nonexclusive basis for the limited purposes and for the limited period
stated in the franchise; the right may not be subdivided, assigned, or
subleased. A franchise does not excuse a provider from obtaining appropriate
access or pole attachment agreements before collocating its system on the
property of others, including the city’s property. This section shall not be
construed to prohibit a provider from leasing a conduit to another provider, so
long as the lessee has obtained a franchise.
   (D)   Current providers. Except to the extent exempted by federal or state
law, any provider acting without a franchise on the effective date of this
subchapter shall request issuance of a franchise from the city within 90 days
of the effective date of this subchapter. If such request is made, the provider
may continue providing service during the course of negotiations. If a timely
request is not made, or if negotiations cease and a franchise is not granted,
the provider shall comply with the provisions of §
114.58(D).
   (E)   Nature of franchise. The franchise granted by the city under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be a nonexclusive franchise providing the
right and consent to install, repair, maintain, remove, and replace its system
on, over, and under the rights-of-way in order to provide services.
   (F)   Regulatory approval needed. Before offering or providing any services
pursuant to the franchise, a provider shall obtain any and all regulatory
approvals, permits, authorizations, or licenses for the offering or provision
of such services from the appropriate federal, state, and local authorities, if
required, and shall submit to the city upon the written request of the city
evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations, or licenses.
   (G)   Term. No franchise issued pursuant to this subchapter shall have a
term of less than five years nor greater than 15 years. Each franchise shall be
granted in a nondiscriminatory manner.
(Prior Code, § 13.10.030) (Ord. 11-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.29 COMPENSATION AND OTHER PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Compensation. As fair and reasonable compensation for any franchise
granted pursuant to this subchapter, a provider shall have the following
obligations.
      (1)   Application fee. In order to offset the cost to the city to review
an application for a franchise, and in addition to all other fees, permits, or
charges, a provider shall pay to the city, at the time of application, $500 as
a non-refundable application fee.
      (2)   Franchise fees. The franchise fee, if any, shall be set forth in
the franchise agreement. The obligation to pay a franchise fee shall commence
on the completion date. The franchise fee is offset by any business license fee
or business license tax enacted by the city.
      (3)   Excavation permits. The provider shall also pay fees required for
an excavation permit as provided in the city’s excavation permit and street cut
ordinances.
   (B)   Timing. Unless otherwise agreed to in the franchise agreement, all
franchise fees shall be paid on a monthly basis within 45 days of the close of
each calendar month.
   (C)   Fee statement and certification. Unless a franchise agreement provides
otherwise, each fee payment shall be accompanied by a statement showing the
manner in which the fee was calculated and shall be certified as to its
accuracy.
   (D)   Future costs. A provider shall pay to the city, or to third parties at
the direction of the city, an amount equal to the reasonable costs and
reasonable expenses that the city incurs for the services of third parties
(including, but not limited to, attorneys and other consultants) in connection
with any renewal or provider-initiated renegotiations, or amendment of this
subchapter or a franchise; provided, however, that the parties shall agree upon
a reasonable financial cap at the outset of negotiations. In the event the
parties are unable to agree, either party may submit the issue to binding
arbitration in accordance with the rules and procedures of the American
Arbitration Association, or the functional equivalent thereof. Additionally,
any costs associated with any work to be done by the Power and Public Works
Department to provide space on city-owned poles, if any, shall be borne by the
provider.
   (E)   Taxes and assessments. To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities, other than the city on the use of the city
property, as a result of a provider’s use or occupation of the rights-of-way,
the provider shall be responsible for payment of its pro rata share of such
taxes, payable annually unless otherwise required by the taxing authority. Such
payments shall be in addition to any other fees payable pursuant to this
subchapter.
   (F)   Interest on late payments. In the event that any payment is not
actually received by the city on, or before, the applicable date fixed in the
franchise, interest thereon shall accrue from such date until received at the
rate charged for delinquent state taxes.
   (G)   No accord and satisfaction. No acceptance by the city of any fee shall
be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount,
nor shall such acceptance of such fee payment be construed as a release of any
claim the city may have for additional sums payable.
   (H)   Not in lieu of other taxes or fees. The fee payment is not a payment
in lieu of any tax, fee, or other assessment except as specifically provided in
this subchapter, or as required by applicable law. By way of example, and not
limitation, excavation permit fees and fees to obtain space on the city-owned
poles are not waived and remain applicable.
   (I)   Continuing obligation and holdover. In the event a provider continues
to operate all, or any part of, the system after the term of the franchise,
such operator shall continue to comply with all applicable provisions of this
subchapter and the franchise, including, without limitation, all compensation
and other payment provisions throughout the period of such continued operation;
provided that any such continued operation shall, in no way, be construed as a
renewal or other extension of the franchise, nor as a limitation on the
remedies, if any, available to the city as a result of such continued operation
after the term, including, but not limited to, damages and restitution.
   (J)   Costs of publication. A provider shall assume any publication costs
associated with its franchise that may be required by law.
(Prior Code, § 13.10.040) (Ord. 11-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.30 FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Franchise application. To obtain a franchise to construct, own,
maintain, or provide services through any system within the city, to obtain a
renewal of a franchise granted pursuant to this subchapter, or to obtain the
city approval of a transfer of a franchise, as provided in §
114.55(A)(2), granted pursuant to this subchapter, an application must be filed
with the city on the form attached to this subchapter as Exhibit A, which is
hereby incorporated by reference. The application form may be changed by the
Mayor, or his or her designee, so long as such changes request information that
is consistent with this subchapter. Such application form, as amended, is
incorporated by reference.
   (B)   Application criteria. In making a determination as to an application
filed pursuant to this subchapter, the city may, but shall not be limited to,
request the following from the provider:
      (1)   A copy of the order from the PSC granting a certificate of
convenience and necessity;
      (2)   Certification of the provider’s financial ability to compensate the
city for the provider’s intrusion, maintenance, and use of the rights-of-way
during the franchise term proposed by the provider; and
      (3)   The provider’s agreement to comply with the requirements of this
section.
   (C)   Franchise determination. The city, in its sole discretion, shall
determine the award of any franchise on the basis of these and other
considerations relevant to the use of the rights-of-way, without competitive
bidding.
(Prior Code, § 13.10.050) (Ord. 11-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.31 CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirement. No provider shall receive a franchise unless it
agrees to comply with each of the terms set forth in this section governing
construction and technical requirements for its system, in addition to any
other reasonable requirements or procedures specified by the city or the
franchise, including requirements regarding locating and sharing in the cost of
locating portions of the system with other systems or with city utilities. A
provider shall obtain an excavation permit and/or street cut permit pursuant to
the applicable ordinance before commencing any work in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Quality. All work involved in the construction, maintenance, repair,
upgrade, and removal of the system shall be performed in a safe, thorough,
workmanlike, and reliable manner using materials of good and durable quality.
If, at any time, it is determined by the FCC, or any other agency granted
authority by federal law or the FCC to make such determination, that any part
of the system, including, without limitation, any means used to distribute
signals over, or within, the system, is harmful to the public health, safety or
welfare, or quality of service or reliability, then a provider shall, at its
own cost and expense, promptly correct all such conditions.
   (C)   Licenses and permits. A provider shall have the sole responsibility
for diligently obtaining, at its own cost and expense, all permits, licenses,
or other forms of approval or authorization necessary to construct, maintain,
upgrade, or repair the system, including, but not limited to, any necessary
approvals from persons and/or the city to use private property, easements,
poles, and conduits. A provider shall obtain any required permit, license,
approval, or authorization, including, but not limited to, excavation permits,
pole attachment agreements, and the like, prior to the commencement of the
activity for which the permit, license, approval, or authorization is required.
   (D)   Relocation of the system.
      (1)   New grades or lines. If the grades or lines of any rights-of-way
are changed at any time in a manner affecting the system, then a provider shall
comply with the requirements of the excavation ordinance.
      (2)   The city authority to move system in case of an emergency. The city
may, at any time, in case of fire, disaster, or other emergency, as determined
by the city in its reasonable discretion, cut or move any parts of the system
and appurtenances on, over, or under the rights-of-way of the city, in which
event the city shall not be liable therefor to a provider. The city shall
notify a provider, in writing, prior to, if practicable, but in any event as
soon as possible, and in no case later than the next business day following,
any action taken under this section. Notice shall be given as provided in §
114.01(C).
      (3)   A provider required to temporarily move system for third party. A
provider shall, upon prior reasonable written notice by the city or any person
holding a permit to move any structure, and within the time that is reasonable
under the circumstances, temporarily move any part of its system to permit the
moving of said structure. A provider may impose a reasonable charge on any
person other than the city for any such movement of its systems.
      (4)   Rights-of-way change; obligation to move system. When the city is
changing a right-of-way and makes a written request, a provider is required to
move or remove its system from the right-of-way, without cost to the city, to
the extent provided in the excavation ordinance. This obligation does not apply
to systems originally located on private property pursuant to a private
easement, which property was later incorporated into the right-of-way, if that
private easement grants a superior vested right. This obligation exists whether
or not the provider has obtained an excavation permit.
   (E)   Protect structures. In connection with the construction, maintenance,
repair, upgrade, or removal of the system, a provider shall, at its own cost
and expense, protect any and all existing structures belonging to the city,
including all landmarks as designated by the city or other authorized
governmental agency, as well as all other structures within any designated
landmark district. A provider shall obtain the prior written consent of the
city to alter any water main, power facility, sewerage, or drainage system, or
any other municipal structure on, over, or under the rights-of-way of the city
required because of the presence of the system. Any such alteration shall be
made by the city, or its designee, on a reimbursable basis. A provider agrees
that it shall be liable for the costs incurred by the city to replace or
repair, and restore to its prior condition, in a manner as may be reasonably
specified by the city, any municipal structure or any other rights-of-way of
the city involved in the construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade, or removal
of the system that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of any work
thereon by, or on behalf of, a provider pursuant to the franchise.
   (F)   No obstruction. In connection with the construction, maintenance,
upgrade, repair, or removal of the system, a provider shall not unreasonably
obstruct the rights-of-way of fixed guideway systems, railways, passenger
travel, or other traffic to, from, or within the city without the prior consent
of the appropriate authorities.
   (G)   Safety precautions. A provider shall, at its own cost and expense,
undertake all necessary and appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its
work sites, including the placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences,
barricades, security personnel, and suitable and sufficient lighting, and such
other requirements prescribed by OSHA and State OSHA, or the functional
successor equivalent, if any. A provider shall comply with all applicable
federal, state, and local requirements including, but not limited to, the
National Electric Safety Code.
   (H)   Repair. After written reasonable notice to the provider, unless, in
the sole determination of the city, an eminent danger exists, any rights-of-way
within the city which are disturbed or damaged during the construction,
maintenance, or reconstruction by a provider of its system may be repaired by
the city, at the provider’s expense, to a condition as good as that prevailing
before such work was commenced. Upon doing so, the city shall submit to such a
provider an itemized statement of the cost for repairing and restoring the
rights-of-ways intruded upon. The provider shall, within 30 days after receipt
of the statement, pay to the city the entire amount thereof.
   (I)   System maintenance. A provider shall:
      (1)   Install and maintain all parts of its system in a non-dangerous
condition throughout the entire period of its franchise;
      (2)   Install and maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent
engineering practices and shall conform, when applicable, with the National
Electrical Safety Code and all applicable other federal, state, and local laws
or regulations; and
      (3)   At all reasonable times, permit examination by any duly-authorized
representative of the city of the system and its effect on the rights-of-way.
   (J)   Trimming of trees. A provider shall have the authority to trim trees,
in accordance with all applicable utility restrictions, ordinances, and
easement restrictions, upon and hanging over rights-of-way so as to prevent the
branches of such trees from coming in contact with its system.
(Prior Code, § 13.10.060) (Ord. 11-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.32 FRANCHISE AND LICENSE NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   Notification of sale.
      (1)   Notification and election. When a provider is the subject of a
sale, transfer, lease, assignment, sublease, or is disposed of, in whole or in
part, either by forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale, consolidation,
or otherwise, such that it or its successor entity is obligated to inform or
seek the approval of the PSC, the provider, or its successor entity, shall
promptly notify the city of the fact and nature of the transaction. The
notification shall include either:
         (a)   The successor entity’s certification that the successor entity
unequivocally agrees to all of the terms of the original provider’s franchise
agreement; or
         (b)   The successor entity’s application in compliance with §
114.54.
      (2)   Transfer of franchise. Upon receipt of notification and
certification in accordance with division (A)(1)(a) above, the city designee,
as provided in §
114.58(A)(1), shall send notice affirming the transfer of the franchise to the
successor entity. If the city has good cause to believe that the successor
entity may not comply with this subchapter or the franchise agreement, it may
require an application for the transfer. The application shall comply with §
114.54.
      (3)   If PSC approval no longer required. If the PSC no longer exists, or
if its regulations or state law no longer require approval of transactions
described in this division (A), and the city has good cause to believe that the
successor entity may not comply with this subchapter or the franchise
agreement, it may require an application from the successor entity. The
application shall comply with §
114.54.
   (B)   Events of sale. The following events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment, or other transfer of the franchise requiring compliance with
division (A) above:
      (1)   Provider’s asset. The sale, assignment, or other transfer of all or
a majority of a provider’s assets to another person;
      (2)   Stock or partnership, membership, other equity interests. The sale,
assignment, or other transfer of capital stock or partnership, membership, or
other equity interests in a provider by one or more of its existing
shareholders, partners, members, or other equity owners so as to create a new
controlling interest in a provider;
      (3)   Additional capital stock. The issuance of additional capital stock
or partnership, membership, or other equity interest by a provider so as to
create a new controlling interest in such a provider; or
      (4)   Agreement. The entry by a provider into an agreement with respect
to the management or operation of such provider or its system.
(Prior Code, § 13.10.070) (Ord. 11-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.33 OVERSIGHT AND REGULATION.
   (A)   Insurance, indemnity, and security. Prior to the execution of a
franchise, a provider will deposit with the city an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit or surety bond as required by the terms of the franchise, and
shall obtain and provide proof of the insurance coverage required by the
franchise. A provider shall also indemnify the city as set forth in the
franchise.
   (B)   Oversight. The city shall have the right to oversee, regulate, and
inspect periodically the construction, maintenance, and upgrade of the system,
and any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of the franchise and
applicable law. A provider shall establish and maintain managerial and
operational records, standards, procedures, and controls to enable a provider
to prove, in reasonable detail, to the satisfaction of the city at all times
throughout the term, that a provider is in compliance with the franchise. A
provider shall retain such records for not less than the applicable statute of
limitations. The provider shall notify, in a timely manner, the city prior to
the construction, maintenance, and upgrade of the system to allow the city to
exercise the oversight rights conferred herein.
   (C)   Maintain records. A provider shall at all times maintain:
      (1)   On file with the city, a full and complete set of plans, records
and as-built hard copy maps and, to the extent the maps are placed in an
electronic format, they shall be made in an electronic format compatible with
the city’s existing GIS system, of all existing and proposed installations, and
the types of equipment and systems installed or constructed in the rights-of-
way, properly identified and described as to the types of equipment and
facility by appropriate symbols and marks, which shall include annotations of
all rights-of-ways where work will be undertaken. As used herein, AS-BUILT MAPS
includes file construction prints. Maps shall be drawn to scale. As-built maps,
including the compatible electronic format, as provided above, shall be
submitted within 30 days of completion of work or within 30 days after
completion of modification and repairs. As-built maps are not required of the
provider who is the incumbent local exchange carrier for the existing system to
the extent they do not exist.
      (2)   Throughout the term of the franchise, a provider shall maintain
complete and accurate books of accounts and records of the business, ownership,
and operations of a provider with respect to the system in a manner that allows
the city at all times to determine whether a provider is in compliance with the
franchise. Should the city reasonably determine that the records are not being
maintained in such a manner, a provider shall alter the manner in which the
books and/or records are maintained so that a provider comes into compliance
with this section. All financial books and records which are maintained in
accordance with the regulations of the FCC and any governmental entity that
regulates utilities in the state, and with generally-accepted accounting
principles, shall be deemed to be acceptable under this section.
   (D)   Confidentiality. If the information required to be submitted is
proprietary in nature or must be kept confidential by federal, state, or local
law, upon proper request by a provider, such information shall be classified as
a protected record within the meaning of the State Government Records Access
and Management Act (GRAMA, being UCA Title 63G, Chapter 2), making it available
only to those who must have access to perform their duties on behalf of the
city; provided that a provider notifies the city of, and clearly labels, the
information which a provider deems to be confidential, proprietary information.
Such notification and labeling shall be the sole responsibility of the
provider.
   (E)   Provider’s expense. All reports and records required under this
subchapter shall be furnished at the sole expense of a provider, except as
otherwise provided in this subchapter or a franchise.
   (F)   Right of inspection. For the purpose of verifying the correct amount
of the franchise fee, the books and records of the provider pertaining thereto
shall be open to inspection or audit by duly-authorized representatives of the
city at all reasonable times, upon giving reasonable notice of the intention to
inspect or audit the books and records; provided that the city shall not audit
the books and records of the provider more often than annually. The provider
agrees to reimburse the city the reasonable costs of an audit if the audit
discloses that the provider has paid 95% or less of the compensation due the
city for the period of such audit. In the event the accounting rendered to the
city by the provider herein is found to be incorrect, then payment shall be
made on the corrected amount within 30 calendar days of written notice, it
being agreed that the city may accept any amount offered by the provider, but
the acceptance thereof by the city shall not be deemed a settlement of such
item if the amount is in dispute or is later found to be incorrect.
(Prior Code, § 13.10.080) (Ord. 11-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.34 RIGHTS OF CITY.
   (A)   Enforcement and remedies.
      (1)   Enforcement; city designee. The city is responsible for enforcing
and administering this subchapter, and the city or its designee, as appointed
by the Mayor, is authorized to give any notice required by law or under any
franchise agreement.
      (2)   Enforcement provision. Any franchise granted pursuant to this
subchapter shall contain appropriate provisions for enforcement, compensation,
and protection of the public consistent with the other provisions of this
subchapter, including, but not limited to, defining events of default,
procedures for accessing the bond/security fund, and rights of termination or
revocation.
   (B)   Force majeure. In the event a provider’s performance of any of the
terms, conditions, or obligations required by this subchapter or a franchise is
prevented by a cause or event not within a provider’s control, such inability
to perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be
imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of this section, causes or events
not within the control of a provider shall include, without limitation, acts of
God, strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, failure or loss of
utilities, explosions, acts of public enemies, and natural disasters such as
floods, earthquakes, landslides, and fires.
   (C)   Extended operation and continuity of services.
      (1)   Continuation after expiration. Upon either expiration or revocation
of a franchise granted pursuant to this subchapter, the city shall have
discretion to permit a provider to continue to operate its system or provide
services for an extended period of time not to exceed six months from the date
of such expiration or revocation. A provider shall continue to operate its
system under the terms and conditions of this subchapter and the franchise
granted pursuant to this subchapter.
      (2)   Continuation by incumbent local exchange carrier. If the provider
is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall be permitted to continue to
operate its system and provide services without regard to revocation or
expiration, but shall be obligated to negotiate a renewal in good faith.
   (D)   Removal or abandonment of franchise property.
      (1)   Abandoned system. In the event that a provider, except the provider
who is an incumbent local exchange carrier, shall be deemed to have abandoned
such system:
         (a)   The use of any portion of the system is discontinued for a
continuous period of 12 months, and 30 days after no response to written notice
from the city to the last known address of provider;
         (b)   Any system has been installed in the rights-of-way without
complying with the requirements of this subchapter or franchise; or
         (c)   The provisions of §
114.52(E) are applicable and no franchise is granted.
      (2)   Removal of abandoned system. The city, upon such terms as it may
impose, may give a provider written permission to abandon, without removing,
any system, or portion thereof, directly constructed, operated, or maintained
under a franchise. Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise
provided in this subchapter, a provider shall remove, within a reasonable time,
the abandoned system and shall restore, using prudent construction standards,
any affected rights-of-way to their former state at the time such system was
installed, so as not to impair their usefulness. In removing its plant,
structures, and equipment, a provider shall refill, at its own expense, any
excavation necessarily made by it and shall leave all rights-of-way in as good
a condition as that prevailing prior to such removal without materially
interfering with any electrical or telephone cables, or other utility wires,
poles, or attachments. The city shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of the rights-of-way cables, wires, attachments, and poles prior to,
and after, removal. The liability, indemnity, and insurance provisions of this
subchapter, and any security fund provided in a franchise, shall continue in
full force and effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by
a provider with the terms and conditions of this section.
      (3)   Transfer of abandoned system to city. Upon abandonment of any
system in place, a provider, if required by the city, shall submit to the city
a written instrument, satisfactory in form to the city, transferring to the
city the ownership of the abandoned system.
      (4)   Removal of aboveground system. At the expiration of the term for
which a franchise is granted, or upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as
provided for by this subchapter, in any such case without renewal, extension,
or transfer, the city shall have the right to require a provider to remove, at
its expense, all aboveground portions of a system from the rights-of-way within
a reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than 180 days. If the
provider is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall not be required to
remove its system, but shall negotiate a renewal in good faith.
      (5)   Leaving underground system. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary set forth in this subchapter, a provider may abandon any underground
system in place so long as it does not materially interfere with the use of the
rights-of-way, or with the use thereof by any public utility, cable operator,
or other person.
(Prior Code, § 13.10.090) (Ord. 11-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.35 OBLIGATION TO NOTIFY.
   Before entering onto any private property, a provider shall make a good
faith attempt to contact the property owners in advance, and describe the work
to be performed.
(Prior Code, § 13.10.100) (Ord. 11-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.36 FEDERAL, STATE, CITY JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Construction. This subchapter shall be construed in a manner
consistent with all applicable federal and state statutes.
   (B)   Ordinance applicability. This subchapter shall apply to all franchises
granted or renewed after the effective date of this subchapter. This subchapter
shall further apply, to the extent permitted by applicable federal or state
law, to all existing franchises granted prior to the effective date of this
subchapter and to a provider providing services, without a franchise, prior to
the effective date of this subchapter.
   (C)   Other applicable ordinances. A provider’s rights are subject to the
police powers of the city to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the
health, safety, and welfare of the public. A provider shall comply with all
applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the city pursuant to its
police powers; in particular, all providers shall comply with the city zoning
and other land use requirements.
   (D)   City failure to enforce. A provider shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter or any
franchise granted pursuant to this subchapter by reason of any failure of the
city to enforce prompt compliance.
   (E)   Construed according to state law. This subchapter, and any franchise
granted pursuant to this subchapter, shall be construed and enforced in
accordance with the substantive laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 13.10.120) (Ord. 11-98, passed 5-20-1998)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE AGREEMENT FORMAT
§ 114.50 FRANCHISE AGREEMENT AND ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Agreement. Upon approval by the Mayor and execution by the parties,
this agreement shall be deemed to constitute a contract by, and between, the
city and the provider.
   (B)   Ordinance.
      (1)   The city has adopted the telecommunications rights-of-way
subchapter, titled “Rights-of-Way Regulations,” codified in §§
114.25 through
114.36, and incorporated herein by reference.
      (2)   The provider acknowledges that it has had an opportunity to read
and become familiar with the telecommunications rights-of-way subchapter. The
parties agree that the provisions and requirements of the telecommunications
rights-of-way subchapter are material terms of this agreement, and that each
party hereby agrees to be contractually bound to comply with the terms of the
telecommunications rights-of-way subchapter.
      (3)   The definitions in the telecommunications rights-of-way subchapter
shall apply herein unless a different meaning is indicated.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to require the provider to
comply with any provision of the telecommunications rights-of-way subchapter
which is determined to be unlawful or beyond the city’s authority.
   (C)   Subchapter amendments. The city reserves the right to amend the
telecommunications rights-of-way subchapter at any time. The city shall give
the provider notice and an opportunity to be heard concerning any proposed
amendments. If there is any inconsistency between the provider’s rights and
obligations under the telecommunications rights-of-way subchapter, as amended,
and this agreement, the provisions of this agreement shall govern during its
term. Otherwise, the provider agrees to comply with any such amendments.
   (D)   Franchise description. The telecommunications franchise provided
hereby shall confer upon the provider the nonexclusive right, privilege, and
franchise to construct and maintain a telecommunications network in, under,
above, and across the present and future public rights-of-way in the city. The
franchise does not grant to the provider the right, privilege, or authority to
engage in a community antenna (or cable) television business; although, nothing
contained herein shall preclude the provider from:
      (1)   Permitting those with a cable franchise who are lawfully engaged in
such business to utilize the provider’s system within the city for such
purposes; or
      (2)   From providing such service in the future if an appropriate
franchise is obtained and all other legal requirements have been satisfied.
   (E)   Licenses. The provider acknowledges that it has obtained the necessary
approvals, licenses, or permits required by federal and state law to provide
with the provisions of this agreement and with the telecommunications rights-
of-way subchapter.
   (F)   Relationship. Nothing herein shall be deemed to create a joint venture
or principal-agent relationship between the parties, and neither party is
authorized to, nor shall either party act toward third persons or the public in
a manner that would indicate any such relationship with each other.
(Prior Code, § 13.11.010) (Ord. 13-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.51 FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   Franchise fee. For the franchise granted herein, the provider shall
pay to the city a franchise fee of 6% of its gross revenues, less any business
license fee or business license tax enacted by the city. All payments shall be
made to the city, and sent as follows, unless the provider is otherwise
notified of a change in address in writing by the city.
   (B)   Up-front franchise fee. Upon granting of this franchise, the provider
shall pay a $2,500 up-front franchise fee. The provider may offset the
franchise fee paid to the city pursuant to division (A) above, up to the amount
of the up-front franchise fee paid to the city.
   (C)   Equal treatment. The city agrees that if any service forming part of
the base for calculating the franchise fee under this agreement is, or becomes,
subject to competition from a third party, the city will either impose and
collect from such third party a fee or tax on gross revenues from such
competing service in the same percentage specified herein, plus the percentage
specified as a utility revenue tax or license fee in the then-current
ordinances of the city, or waive collection of the fees provided for herein
that are subject to such competition.
(Prior Code, § 13.11.020) (Ord. 13-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.52 TERM AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Term and renewal.
      (1)   The franchise granted to a provider shall be for a period of ten
years commencing on the first day of the month following this agreement, unless
this franchise be sooner terminated as herein provided.
      (2)   At the end of the initial ten-year term of this agreement, the
franchise granted herein may be renewed by the provider upon the same terms and
conditions as contained in this agreement for an additional ten-year term, by
providing to the city’s representative designated herein written notice of the
provider’s intent to renew not less than 90 calendar days before the expiration
of the initial franchise term.
   (B)   Rights of provider upon expiration or revocation. Upon expiration of
the franchise granted herein, whether by lapse of time, by agreement between
the provider and the city, or by revocation or forfeiture, the provider shall
have the right to remove from the rights-of-way any and all of its systems, but
in such event, it shall be the duty of the provider, immediately upon such
removal, to restore the rights-of-way from which such systems are removed to as
good condition as the same was before the removal was effected.
(Prior Code, § 13.11.030) (Ord. 13-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.53 PUBLIC USE RIGHTS.
   (A)   City uses of poles and overhead structures. The city shall have the
right, without cost, to use all poles owned by the provider within the city for
fire alarms, police signal systems, or any lawful public use; provided,
however, any said uses by the city shall be for activities owned, operated, or
used by the city for any public purposes, and shall not include the provision
of telecommunications service to third parties.
   (B)   Limitations on use rights. Nothing in this agreement shall be
construed to require the provider to increase pole capacity, alter the manner
in which the provider attaches equipment to the poles, or alter the manner in
which the provider operates and maintains its equipment. Such city attachments
shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the reasonable
requirements of the provider and the current National Electrical Safety Code.
City attachments shall be attached or installed only after written approval by
the provider, which approval will be processed in a timely manner and will not
be unreasonably withheld.
   (C)   Maintenance of city facilities. The city’s use rights shall also be
subject to the parties reaching an agreement regarding the city’s maintenance
of the city attachments.
(Prior Code, § 13.11.040) (Ord. 13-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.54 POLICE POWERS.
   The city expressly reserves, and the provider expressly recognizes, the
city’s right and duty to adopt, from time to time, in addition to the
provisions herein contained, such ordinances and rules and regulations as the
city may deem necessary in the exercise of its police power for the protection
of the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens and their properties.
(Prior Code, § 13.11.050) (Ord. 13-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.55 CHANGING CONDITIONS AND SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   Meet to confer.
      (1)   The provider and the city recognize that many aspects of the
telecommunications business are currently the subject of discussion,
examination, and inquiry by different segments of the industry and affected
regulatory authorities, and that these activities may ultimately result in
fundamental changes in the way the provider conducts its business and the way
the city regulates the business.
      (2)   In recognition of the present state of uncertainty respecting these
matters, the provider and the city each agree, upon request of the other during
the term of this agreement, to meet with the other and discuss in good faith
whether it would be appropriate, in view of developments of the kind referred
to above during the term of this agreement, to amend this agreement or enter
into separate, mutually satisfactory arrangements to effect a proper
accommodation of any such developments.
   (B)   Severability.
      (1)   If any section, sentence, paragraph, term, or provision of this
agreement or the telecommunications rights-of-way subchapter is, for any
reason, determined to be or rendered illegal, invalid, or superseded by other
lawful authority, including any state or federal legislative, regulatory, or
administrative authority having jurisdiction thereof, or is determined to be
unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision,
and such determination shall have no effect on the validity of any other
section, sentence, paragraph, term, or provision, all of which shall remain in
full force and effect for the term of this agreement or any renewal, or
renewals, thereof.
      (2)   Provided that if the invalidated portion is considered a material
consideration for entering into this agreement, the parties will negotiate, in
good faith, an amendment to this agreement. As used herein, MATERIAL
CONSIDERATION for the city is its ability to collect the franchise fee during
the term of this agreement and its ability to manage the rights-of-way in a
manner similar to that provided in this agreement, the telecommunications
rights-of-way subchapter, and the city’s excavation ordinance. For the
provider, MATERIAL CONSIDERATION is its ability to use the rights-of-way for
telecommunication purposes in a manner similar to that provided in this
agreement, the telecommunications rights-of-way subchapter, and the city’s
excavation ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 13.11.060) (Ord. 13-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.56 EARLY TERMINATION.
   (A)   Grounds for termination. The city may terminate or revoke this
agreement, and all rights and privileges herein provided, for any of the
following reasons.
      (1)   The provider fails to make timely payments of the franchise fee as
required under §
114.51 and does not correct such failure within 60 calendar days after written
notice by the city of such failure.
      (2)   The provider, by act or omission, materially violates a material
duty herein set forth in any particular within the provider’s control, and with
respect to which redress is not otherwise herein provided. In such event, the
city, acting by or through its City Council, may determine, after hearing, that
such failure is of a material nature, and thereupon, after written notice
giving the provider notice of such determination, the provider, within 60
calendar days of such notice, shall commence efforts to remedy the conditions
identified in the notice, and shall have 90 calendar days from the date it
receives notice to remedy the conditions.
      (3)   After the expiration of such 90-day period and failure to correct
such conditions, the city may declare the franchise forfeited and this
agreement terminated, and thereupon, the provider shall have no further rights
or authority hereunder; provided, however, that any such declaration of
forfeiture and termination shall be subject to judicial review as provided by
law; and provided further, that in the event such failure is of such nature
that it cannot be reasonably corrected within the 90-day time period provided
above, the city shall provide additional time for the reasonable correction of
such alleged failure if the reason for the noncompliance was not the
intentional or negligent act or omission of the provider; for an agreement with
the incumbent local exchange carrier, they should be allowed to continue
operation while the issue is being negotiated in good faith.
      (4)   The provider becomes insolvent, unable, or unwilling to pay its
debts; is adjudged bankrupt; or all or part of its facilities should be sold
under an instrument to secure a debt and is not redeemed by the provider within
60 days.
   (B)   Reserved rights. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to preclude
the provider from pursuing any legal or equitable rights or remedies it may
have to challenge the action of the city.
   (C)   Remedies at law. In the event the provider or the city fails to
fulfill any of its respective obligations under this agreement, the city or the
provider, whichever the case may be, shall have a breach of contract claim and
remedy against the other, in addition to any other remedy provided herein or by
law; provided, however, that no remedy that would have the effect of amending
the specific provisions of this agreement shall become effective without such
action that would be necessary to formally amend the agreement.
   (D)   Third-party beneficiaries.
      (1)   The benefits and protection provided by this agreement shall inure
solely to the benefit of the city and the provider.
      (2)   This agreement shall not be deemed to create any right in any
person who is not a party and shall not be construed in any respect to be a
contract, in whole or in part, for the benefit of any third party (other than
the permitted successors and assigns of a party hereto).
(Prior Code, § 13.11.070) (Ord. 13-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.57 PARTIES; DESIGNEES.
   (A)   City designee and address.
      (1)   The Mayor, or his or her designee(s), shall serve as the city’s
representative regarding administration of this agreement.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified herein or in the telecommunications
rights-of-way subchapter, all notices from the provider to the city pursuant
to, or concerning, this agreement, shall be delivered to the city’s
representative at 2440 S 2050 W, West Haven, Utah 84401, or such other officer
and address as the city may designate by written notice to the provider.
   (B)   Provider designee and address.
      (1)   The _______________, or his or her designee(s), shall serve as the
provider’s representative regarding administration of this agreement.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified herein or in the telecommunications
rights-of-way subchapter, all notices from the city to the provider pursuant
to, or concerning, this agreement shall be delivered to the provider’s
representative at_________, or such other office as the provider may designate
by written notice to the city.
   (C)   Failure of designee. The failure or omission of the city’s or
provider’s representative to act shall not constitute any waiver or estoppel by
the city or provider.
(Prior Code, § 13.11.080) (Ord. 13-98, passed 5-20-1998)
§ 114.58 PROVISIONS; FRANCHISE ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
   (A)   Provisions.
      (1)   Binding agreement. The parties represent that:
         (a)   When executed by the respective parties, this agreement shall
constitute legal and binding obligations of the parties; and
         (b)   That each party has complied with all relevant statutes,
ordinances, resolutions, bylaws, and other legal requirements applicable to
their operation in entering into this agreement.
      (2)   State law. This agreement shall be interpreted pursuant to state
law.
      (3)   Time of essence. Time shall be of the essence of this agreement.
      (4)   Interpretation of agreement.
         (a)   The invalidity of any portion of this agreement shall not
prevent the remainder from being carried into effect.
         (b)   Whenever the context of any provision shall require it, the
singular number shall be held to include the plural number, and vice versa, and
the use of any gender shall include any other and all genders.
         (c)   The paragraph and section headings in this agreement are for
convenience only and do not constitute a part of the provisions hereof.
      (5)   No presumption. All parties have participated in preparing this
agreement. Therefore, the parties stipulate that any court interpreting or
construing the agreement shall not apply the rule of construction that the
agreement should be more strictly construed against the drafting party.
      (6)   Amendments. This agreement may be modified or amended by written
agreement only. No oral modifications or amendments shall be effective.
      (7)   Binding agreement. This agreement shall be binding upon the heirs,
successors, administrators, and assigns of each of the parties.
      (8)   Date of effect. The franchise granted hereby, under the terms and
conditions as set out herein, shall be effective as between the parties upon
signature of the authorized representative of both of them as evidenced by
their signatures below.
   (B)   Franchise acknowledgment. An example of a franchise acknowledgment
signature page is as follows.
 
Franchise Acknowledgment
 
SIGNED AND ENTERED INTO this ____ day of _____________, 20__
 
“CITY”
CITY OF WEST HAVEN
_____________________
Mayor
 
ATTEST:
_____________________
City Recorder
 
“PROVIDER”
 
By: _____________________
Title: _____________________
 
      STATE OF _________)
:ss.
COUNTY OF _______)
 
On the _________ day of ________, 20__, personally appeared before me
_____________, who being by me duly sworn did say that he/she is the
____________ of________________, and that the foregoing instrument was signed
in behalf of said corporation by authority of a resolution of its board of
directors; and they acknowledged to me that said corporation executed the same.
 
(Prior Code, § 13.11.090) (Ord. 13-98, passed 5-20-1998)
CHAPTER 115: DELIVERY SERVICES
Section
   
115.01   Reciprocal recognition of business licenses
§ 115.01 RECIPROCAL RECOGNITION OF BUSINESS LICENSES.
   No license shall be required by the city or any person or entity whose only
business activity in the city is the mere delivery in the city of goods and/or
services sold at a regular place of business maintained outside of the city
where:
   (A)   The seller’s business is, at the time of such delivery, licensed by
the municipality or county in which such place of business is situated;
   (B)   The authority licensing such business grants to licensees of this city
making deliveries within its jurisdiction the same privileges upon
substantially the same terms as are granted by this chapter; and
   (C)   The transportation unit by which delivery is made prominently displays
at all times a copy of the business license or other symbol issued by the
Licensing Authority.
(Ord. 1-93, passed 2-3-1993)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Daytime loitering in any public place on school days
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ADULT. Any person 18 years of age and older.
   EMERGENCY. Includes, but is not limited to, fire, natural disaster,
automobile accident, or requirement for immediate medical care for another
person.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business to which the public is
invited, including, but not limited to, any place of amusement or
entertainment.
   JUVENILE. Any person under 18 years of age.
   PARENT. A person who is the natural or adoptive parent of a person. PARENT
includes a court-appointed guardian, or other person 18 years of age or older
authorized by the parent, by a court order, or by a court-appointed guardian to
have care and custody of the person.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public, or a substantial group of the
public, has access, and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
common areas of schools, hospitals, office buildings, transport facilities,
shopping centers, and malls.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.020) (Ord. 02-2001, passed 2-7-2001)
§ 130.02 DAYTIME LOITERING IN ANY PUBLIC PLACE ON SCHOOL DAYS.
   (A)   Offenses.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any juvenile, who is subject to compulsory
education, to loiter, idle, wander, or be in, or upon, the public streets,
highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or other public grounds, public
places, public buildings, or the premises of any establishment, vacant lots,
any dwelling not his or her current residence, or any unsupervised place
between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. on any day when school is in
session for that juvenile.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any juvenile, who is subject to a compulsory
alternative education program, to loiter, idle, wander, or be in, or upon, the
public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or other public
grounds, public places, public buildings, or the premises of any establishment,
vacant lots, any dwelling not their current residence, or any unsupervised
place between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. on any day when that
juvenile would otherwise be required to attend a regular, or alternative,
compulsory education school.
      (3)   It is unlawful for the parent of any juvenile to knowingly permit,
or by insufficient control allow, the juvenile to be in violation of divisions
(A)(1) or (A)(2) above.
   (B)   Defenses. It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter:
      (1)   When the juvenile is accompanied by a parent;
      (2)   When the juvenile is on an emergency errand directed by a parent;
      (3)   When the juvenile is going to, or coming directly from, their place
of school-approved employment;
      (4)   When the juvenile is going to, or coming directly from, a medical
appointment;
      (5)   When the juvenile has permission to leave the school campus for
lunch or a school-sponsored activity, or has, in his or her possession, a
valid, school-issued, off-campus permit;
      (6)   When the juvenile is going to, or coming from, a compulsory
alternative education program activity; and/or
      (7)   When the juvenile is attending, or without any detour or stop,
going to or returning from, an official school, religious, government-
sponsored, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and/or sponsored
by the city, or a civic organization, the school district, religious, or other
government organization.
   (C)   Enforcement procedure.
      (1)   Upon any violation of divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2) above, a peace
officer may issue a citation to the juvenile, and may transport the juvenile
home or to the school from which the juvenile is absent. If cited, the juvenile
and a parent shall appear in court as directed in the citation. The parent
shall be advised of the fact that the juvenile was cited for a violation of
this chapter. The parents shall be warned of their responsibility and liability
as the juvenile’s parents.
      (2)   If a parent has been previously warned, as set forth in this
chapter, upon a parent’s first violation of division (A)(3) above, a peace
officer may issue a citation for an infraction to the parent to appear in
court.
      (3)   When a parent has previously been issued a citation for an
infraction as set forth in division (C)(2) above, upon any subsequent violation
by a parent of division (A)(3) above, a peace officer may issue a citation for
a Class C misdemeanor to the parent of the juvenile to appear in court.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.030) (Ord. 02-2001, passed 2-7-2001) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A juvenile convicted of a first-time violation of §
130.02(A)(1) may be placed on probation with the school for a period of up to
90 days. If the juvenile does not have another unexcused absence or violation
of §
130.02(A)(1), the case may be dismissed by the court upon a recommendation from
the school that the juvenile has complied.
   (C)   A juvenile convicted of a violation of §
130.02(A)(1) or (A)(2) is guilty of an infraction. In addition to any fine, the
court shall review whether there is appropriate community service. The court
shall fine the juvenile at least $35.
   (D)   (1)   A parent convicted of a violation of §
130.02(A)(3) shall be guilty of an infraction if the parent had previously been
given formal warning of the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   A parent will be convicted of a Class C misdemeanor if the parent
had been previously convicted of a violation of §
130.02(A)(3).
(Prior Code, § 6.04.030) (Ord. 02-2001, passed 2-7-2001)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS AND PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Trespassing
   
131.02   Transient activity
   
131.03   Unlawful intoxicating chemical compounds
   
131.04   Indecency in public
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 TRESPASSING.
   (A) Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.
      ENTER. Intrusion of the entire body.
   (B)   Criminal trespass. A person is guilty of criminal trespass if, under
circumstances not amounting to burglary, as defined in §§ 76-6-202, 76-6-203,
or 76-6-204 of the State Criminal Code:
      (1)   He or she enters, or remains, unlawfully on property, and:
         (a)   Intends to cause annoyance or injury to any person, or damage to
any property, including the use of graffiti, as defined in UCA § 76-6-107, as
amended;
         (b)   Intends to commit any crime other than a theft or a felony; or
         (c)   Is reckless as to whether his or her presence will cause fear
for the safety of another.
      (2)   Knowing his or her entry or presence is unlawful, he or she enters,
or remains, on property as to which notice against entering is given by:
         (a)   Personal communication to the actor by the owner, or someone
with apparent authority to act for the owner;
         (b)   Fencing or other enclosure obviously designed to exclude
intruders; and/or
         (c)   Posting of signs reasonably likely to come to the attention of
intruders.
   (C)   Defense. It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the:
      (1)   Property was open to the public when the actor entered or remained;
and
      (2)   The actor’s conduct did not substantially interfere with the
owner’s use of the property.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.060) (Ord. 3-93-B, passed 6-16-1993) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 TRANSIENT ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Legislative statement.
      (1)   General statement. Transient activity is a complex social problem
that has become pervasive throughout our community and communities throughout
the state. Some individuals find themselves in a temporary homeless situation
through no real fault of their own, other than having fallen on economic hard
times. Others may be living on the street because of substance abuse, mental
illness, or other causes.
      (2)   Violative and problem conduct. Being homeless is not a crime. Some
conduct associated with a transient population is illegal, can have a
detrimental effect on local businesses, and should be reported to law
enforcement. Such conduct includes public intoxication, loitering, prowling,
fighting, trespassing, aggressive panhandling, soliciting, camping or sleeping
in posted or public areas, littering, obstructing sidewalks, living in a
vehicle, disturbing the peace, or behaving in a threatening manner.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.071)
   (B)   Prohibited activities described. It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Camp, lodge, sleep, cook, make fire, pitch a tent or shelter of any
kind, make any ground cover, place sleeping bags or bedding of any kind, or
utilize camping equipment of any kind on any public right-of-way or other
public property without a permit;
      (2)   Fail to move any camp, related materials, person, or persons, from
a location on the public right-of-way or public property, or posted private
property where there is agency granted, within five minutes after being
directed to move by a city or law enforcement official; and/or
      (3)   Be disruptive while intoxicated, loiter, prowl, fight, trespass,
perform aggressive panhandling, urinate in a public place, unlawfully solicit
money or property, sleep in posted or public areas, litter, obstruct sidewalks,
live in a vehicle, disturb the peace, or behave in a threatening manner to
another person.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.072)
   (C)   Letter of agency. A business or authorized private property owner may
grant an annual “letter of agency” that authorizes law enforcement to enter
private property to investigate suspicious activity and to cite, or arrest,
people trespassing, or found to be in violation of law, or committing a crime.
Any business or property owner that grants a letter of agency shall post the
property in highly-visible locations with no trespassing or agency authority
signs. Any request by a business or property owner for a letter of agency shall
be made to law enforcement in the form and manner as prescribed by the law
enforcement authority.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.073)
   (D)   Guidelines for managing transient activities. When dealing with
homeless and transients, the following guidelines are useful:
      (1)   Use caution and avoid confrontations;
      (2)   Permit no one to camp, loiter, or store personal belongings on your
property;
      (3)   Do not offer food or money, which encourages additional
panhandling;
      (4)   Identify and create relationships with local charities, missions,
food banks, and other social service organizations that provide services to
assist transient populations and those in need;
      (5)   Restrict overnight access to outdoor areas protected from inclement
weather;
      (6)   Lock or remove handles from water spigots;
      (7)   Keep trash dumpsters, or other receptacles, locked when not being
filled or emptied;
      (8)   Secure outside storage sheds or containers;
      (9)   Lock exterior power outlets;
      (10)   Lock gates after hours;
      (11)   Install dark-sky compliant motion-activated exterior lighting;
      (12)   Install surveillance and security measures;
      (13)   Maintain landscaping and avoid creating areas that block views or
camera coverage;
      (14)   Maintain property, and keep it free of litter and junk; and
      (15)   Post signs detailing nighttime curfews and prohibitions of
loitering, illegal lodging, drinking alcoholic beverages, and drug activities
which state that anyone engaged in prohibited conduct will be asked to leave
the property, and that failure to do so will cause local law enforcement to be
contacted.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.074)
(Ord. 09-2019, passed 3-20-2019) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 UNLAWFUL INTOXICATING CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including a corporation or other
entity, to manufacture, distribute, use, possess, purchase, attempt to
purchase, sell, publicly display for sale, attempt to sell, give, trade or
barter any one or more of the following chemical compounds and/or substances,
or their salts, isomers, homologues, and the salts of their isomers and
homologues:
      (1)   Salvia divinorum or salvinorin A; all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its
seeds, or extracts;
      (2)   (6aR, IOaR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6dimethyl-3(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a, 7, 10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-ol, some trade, or other name: HU-
210;
      (3)   Naphthalen-l-yl-(l-pentyltndol-3-yl)methanone (also known as 1
Pentyl-3(1-naphthoyl) indole, some trade, or other name: JWH-018;
      (4)   Naphthalen-1-yl-(1-butylindol-3-yl)methanone (also known as l-
Butyl-3-(Inaphthoyl) indole, some trade or other name: JWH-073;
      (5)   2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol), some
trade, or other name: CP 47, 497, and its C6, C7, C8, and C9 homologues;
      (6)   1-(3-[triflouromethylphenyl]) piperazine, some trade, or other
name: TFMPP;
      (7)   (R)-( + )-[2,3-Dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl) pyrrolo
[l,2,3 de)-1,4-benzoxa- zin-6-yl]-1-napthalenylmethanone, some trade, or other
name: WIN 55,2-212;
      (8)   2-[(1R,2R,5R)-5-hydroxy-2-(3-hydroxypropyi) cyclohexyl-5-(2-
methyloctan-2yl) phenol, some trade, or other name: CP 55,940;
      (9)   6, 6, 9-trimethyl-3-(3-methyloctan-2-yl)-7, 8, 9, 10-
tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-lol, some trade, or other name: Dimethylheptylpyran
1, 2-dimethylheptyl-A3THC, or DMHP, or A-40824, or EA-1476;
      (10)   [(6S,6aR,9RJ10aR)-9-hydroxy-6-methyl-3-[(2R)-5-phenylpentan-2-
yl]oxy-5, 6, 63, 7, 8, 9, 10, 10a-octahydrophenanthridin-1-yl] acetate, some
trade, or other name: Levonantradol, or CP 50, 556-1;
      (11)   1-(4-methylphenyi)-2-methylaminopropan-1-one, some trade, or other
name: Mephedrone, 4-methylmethcathinone, 4-MMC, or 4-methylephedrone; or
      (12)   Any similar structural analogs.
   (B)   It is not an offense under division (A) above if the person was acting
at the direction of an authorized agent of the city to enforce, or ensure,
compliance with this law prohibiting the sale of the aforementioned
intoxicating chemical compounds.
   (C)   If any of the aforementioned intoxicating chemical compounds are found
in the possession of any person, they may be confiscated and destroyed by law
enforcement officials.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any person who commits any act
described in this section pursuant to the lawful direction or prescription of a
licensed physician or dentist authorized to direct or prescribe such act. This
section likewise does not apply to the inhalation of anesthesia for a medical
purpose or dental purpose.
   (E)   The city shall have the authority to seek an injunction to compel
compliance of any business which fails, or refuses, comply with this section.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.080) (Ord. 09-2010, passed 10-20-2010) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 INDECENCY IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   A person commits public indecency when that person knowingly, or
intentionally, in a public place:
      (1)   Engages in sexual intercourse;
      (2)   Engages in sexually explicit conduct as defined by state law, for
example, UCA § 76-56-103 or other related statute;
      (3)   Appears in a state of nudity; or
      (4)   Fondles the genitals of himself, herself, or another person.
   (B)   NUDITY, for the purposes of this section, means the showing of the
human male or female genitalia, pubic hair, or buttocks with less than a fully-
opaque covering; the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple; the exposure of any device, costume, or
covering which gives the appearance of, or simulates, the genitals, pubic hair,
natal cleft, perineum anal region, or pubic hair region; or the exposure of any
device worn as a cover over the nipples and/or areola of the female breast,
which device simulates, and gives the realistic appearance of, nipples and/or
areola.
   (C)   PUBLIC PLACE includes all outdoor places owned by, or open to, the
general public, and all buildings and enclosed places owned by, or open to, the
general public, including such places of entertainment, taverns, restaurants,
clubs, theaters, dance halls, banquet halls, party rooms, or halls limited to
specific members, restricted to adults or to patrons invited to attend, whether
or not an admission charge is levied.
   (D)   The prohibition set forth in division (A)(3) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any child under ten years of age; or
      (2)   Any individual exposing a breast in the process of breastfeeding an
infant under two years of age.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.100) (Ord. 8-2000, passed 5-17-2000) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of §
131.01(B)(2)(a) is a Class C misdemeanor, as set forth under the State Criminal
Code, unless it was committed in a dwelling, in which event it is a Class B
misdemeanor as set forth under the State Criminal Code.
      (2)   A violation of §
131.01(B)(2)(b) is an infraction as set forth under the State Criminal Code.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.060)
   (C)   The city may abate transient activity on any property or violations of
§
131.02. Violating §
131.02 is a Class C misdemeanor subject to a fine not to exceed $750.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.075)
   (D)   Any person found to be in violation of §
131.03 will be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and/or subject to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed six months, and a fine not to exceed $1,000, and/or
both. Each day during which violation of §
131.03 occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.080)
(Ord. 3-93-B, passed 6-16-1993; Ord. 09-2010, passed 10-20-2010; Ord. 09-2019,
passed 3-20-2019)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   STREETS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS- OF-WAY; MAINTENANCE, OBSTRUCTIONS,
EXCAVATIONS, AND RESTORATION
      
153.   TREES
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE AND PREVENTION
      
155.   STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT
      
156.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
157.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Plan
   
150.01   Adopted by reference
GENERAL PLAN
§ 150.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s general plan, and all ordinances and amendments thereto, is
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this code as if laid out in
full.
(Prior Code, § 13.01) (Ord. 05-2002, passed 6-19-2002; Ord. 01-2003, passed 1-
15-2003; Ord. 06-2004, passed 2-18-2004; Ord. 14-2005, passed 11-16-2005; Ord.
06-2008, passed 4-16-2008; Ord. 07-2014, passed 3-5-2014; Ord. 08-2018, passed
6-6-2018; Ord. 03-2019, passed 1-16-2019; Ord. 04-2019, passed 2-6-2019; Ord.
37-2019, passed 11-6-2019; Ord. 29-2020, passed 7-1-2020; Ord. 31-2020, passed
9-16-2020; Ord. 22-2021, passed 6-2-2021)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Temporary placement of recreational-type vehicles during construction
Building Codes
   
151.15   Various international building, development, and management codes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 TEMPORARY PLACEMENT OF RECREATIONAL-TYPE VEHICLES DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The City Council may cause a permit to be issued to a lot owner or
home builder for the temporary placement of a recreational vehicle or a mobile
home for temporary living quarters for a period of six months with a three-
month extension during the course of construction.
   (B)   The RV unit or mobile home shall not be moved on premises until a
building permit is issued.
   (C)   All such temporary housing must be connected to an approved culinary
water supply and waste water disposal system approved by the County Health
Department.
   (D)   When the new home is occupied or is ready for occupancy, any RV unit
must no longer be used as a permanent residence and any mobile home must be
removed from the premises.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.030) (Ord. 5-93, passed 7-7-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
BUILDING CODES
§ 151.15 VARIOUS INTERNATIONAL BUILDING, DEVELOPMENT, AND MANAGEMENT CODES.
   (A)   Based upon recommendation of city staff, the City Council does hereby
approve and adopt the 2018 International Building Code, the 2018 International
Residential Code, the 2018 International Fire Code, the 2018 International
Plumbing Code, the 2018 International Mechanical Code, and the 2018
International Gas Code, all of which are issued by the International Code
Council, as may be amended from time to time. Subsequent versions of such codes
shall be adopted by the city immediately upon their issuance and date of effect
and shall not require readoption by the West Haven City Council.
   (B)   As part of the approval and adoption of the above-referenced codes,
the City Council adopts all permit fee calculations and valuation tables
included therein, and these shall be used by the city to calculate building
permit fees and values.
   (C)   The City Council does hereby approve and adopt any future periodic
amendments to the IBC valuation tables and permit fee formulas and shall
utilize the IBC’s valuation tables and permit fee formulas existing on the date
of an application for a building permit to calculate the city’s building permit
fees and values for that building permit.
(Ord. 01-2022, passed 2-2-2022; Ord. 20-2023, passed 10-18-2023)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY; MAINTENANCE, OBSTRUCTIONS,
EXCAVATIONS, AND RESTORATION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Purpose and intent
   
152.002   Definitions
Obstructions
   
152.010   Sidewalk maintenance
   
152.011   Obstruction of public sidewalks
   
152.012   Obstruction of public rights-of-way; relocation of encroachments
Excavations
   
152.020   Right-of-way excavation permit: when required
   
152.021   Right-of-way excavation permit: application
   
152.022   Right-of-way excavation permit: other conditions and requirements
   
152.023   No transfer or assignment of permit
   
152.024   Other permits
   
152.025   Emergency work
   
152.026   Insurance requirements
   
152.027   Security: when required, conditions, warranty
   
152.028   Impact of excavations on existing improvements
   
152.029   Impact of excavations on existing private property improvements
   
152.030   Restoration of public property; patching and restoration policies,
procedures, and guidelines
   
152.031   Hold harmless agreement; limitations on city liability
   
152.032   Tampering with traffic barricades
   
152.033   Conflict with governing provisions
Enforcement
   
152.090   Enforcement: notice of violation, corrective actions, and stop-work
orders
   
152.091   Effect of enforcement actions
   
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The intended purposes and objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To establish reasonable controls and standards to prevent obstructions
of public sidewalk and the safe operation and maintenance of same;
   (B)   To prevent and regulate obstructions of or encroachments into public
rights-of-way; and
   (C)   To provide for reasonable and uniform limitations, safeguards, and
controls on excavation within the city and ensure protection and restoration of
property.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits a complete application for a permit.
   APPURTENANCES. Miscellaneous concrete surfaces within the public way, such
as parking bays and carriage walks; miscellaneous components of storm/sanitary
sewer systems (such as catch basins, manholes, valve boxes, etc.).
   BUSINESS. Any place in the city in which there is conducted or carried on
principally or exclusively any pursuit or occupation for the purpose of gaining
a livelihood.
   BUSINESS DAYS. A day other than Friday, Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday
as based on the current designated hours of operation for West Haven City as
determined by the City Council.
   CITY. The City of West Haven, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah
and those responsible for the implementation and enforcement of this chapter
including the City Manager.
   CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer, or their authorized representative, and,
where appropriate, includes the City Public Works Director or the authorized
representative of any of them.
   CITY STANDARDS. The most recent version of West Haven Public Works and
Engineering Standards adopted by the City Council and as otherwise codified in
this chapter.
   EMERGENCY. Any unforeseen circumstances or occurrence, the existence of
which constitutes a clear and immediate danger to persons or property, or which
causes interruption of utility services.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The City Engineer, Public Works Director, Building
Official, or Code Enforcement Officer.
   EXCAVATION. Any activity that requires encroachment upon and will cause
physical disturbance to public rights-of-way such as easements, public
footpaths, walkways, trails, curb, curb cut, sidewalks, gutters, driveways,
driveway approaches, public street, road, highways, alleys, and public drainage
ways, including horizontal drilling, horizontal/vertical boring, potholing, and
repair/replacement/installation of service connections.
   FAILURE. A work site restoration that fails to meet city standards or
specifications, or which results in a deteriorated or substandard condition
within the duration of the warranty period. FAILURE may be settlement of
surfaces, deterioration of materials, or other surface irregularities or an
inability to serve its intended purpose.
   INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunications services to customers, all or part of the
necessary system that uses the rights-of-way.
   MUTCD. Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices, latest edition.
   OPERATOR. Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system
and directly, or through one or more affiliates, owns a controlling interest in
such system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of
such a system.
   PERMITTEE. Any person who has been issued a permit and thereby has agreed to
fulfill the requirements of this chapter.
   PERSON. Any natural person; partnership; firm; association; public utility
company; an operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, or system lessee;
corporation; company; organization; or entity of any kind.
   PIPE DRIVEWAY. A driveway approach which uses a pipe or other means to
bridge the gutter.
   PRIVATE DRAIN LINE. A pipe installed solely for the transmission of water
collected or generated on private property, such as drainage, spring, or
stormwater, or condensate into the public drainage system.
   PROPERTY/PROPERTY OWNER. Person or persons who have legal title to property
and/or equitable interest in the property, or the ranking official or agent of
a company having legal title to property and/or equitable interest in the
property. Property or ownership may be public or private.
   PROVIDER. An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, system lessee, or
public utility company.
   PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY. Any company subject to the jurisdiction of the State
Public Service Commission, or any mutual corporation providing gas,
electricity, water, telephone, or other utility products or services for use by
the general public.
   RESELLER. Any person that provides service over a system for which a
separate charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the underlying
system used for the transmission and does not install any system in the rights-
of-way.
   RESIDENT. The person or persons currently making their home at a particular
dwelling within the corporate limits of the city.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY/PUBLIC WAY. All public rights-of-way and easements, public
footpaths, walkways, trails, sidewalks, driveways, driveway approaches, public
streets, roads, highways, alleys, drainage ways and municipal easements or
easements to which the city has ownership and/or encroachment rights.
   STORM DRAIN. A dedicated pipe, conduit, waterway, or ditch installed in a
right-of-way or easement for the conveyance of storm and drainage water.
   SYSTEM LESSEE. Any person that leases a system or a specific portion of a
system to provide services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM or SYSTEM. All conduits, manholes, poles,
antennas, transceivers, amplifiers, and all other electronic devices,
equipment, wire, and appurtenances owned, leased, or used by a provider located
in the construction, ownership, operation, use, or maintenance of a
telecommunications system.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL PLAN. A written plan that may require the use of flaggers,
variable message signs, lighting, etc. barricading and traffic-control
practices to be in place for the duration of the work covered under the permit.
The plan shall be in accordance with the most recent version of the MUTCD and
city standards.
   WHSSD. West Haven Special Service District.
   WORK SITE RESTORATION. The restoring of the original ground or paved hard
surface area which includes, but not limited to, repair, cleanup, backfilling,
compaction and stabilization, paving, and other work necessary to place the
site in acceptable condition following the conclusion of the work, or the
expiration or revocation of the permit and in conformance with city.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 152.010 SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything else within this chapter to the contrary, it
shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant of any real property with
frontage upon any public sidewalk:
      (1)   To remove all weeds and noxious vegetation from such property to
the curb line of the street;
      (2)   To keep the sidewalks along such property free from litter, snow,
ice, or obstructions;
      (3)   To remove snow and ice from the sidewalks within 24 hours after a
storm; and
      (4)   To not throw, put, place, or cause to be thrown, put, or placed
into, upon or within any improved right-of-way of any street or public way any
snow and ice from said nonresidential lands:
         (a)   In clearing driveway openings, snow shall be placed on the same
side of the street as the driveway opening and off the travel-way so as not to
restrict traffic movement or create a hazardous condition;
         (b)   Snow from the length of private driveways shall not be pushed,
or blown onto the city road travel-way but must remain on private property or
on the parking strip so as not to impede the travel-way traffic movement;
         (c)   Snow shall not be pushed across the city road and deposited on
the roadside opposite the driveway;
         (d)   Snow shall not be pushed/blown onto or dumped within the city
road travel-way with the expectation that it will be removed or pushed aside by
snowplows as roads are cleared; and
         (e)   In the event that such snow or ice is not removed within the
time limits set out in § 152.01(A) the Public Works Director may remove or
cause to have removed said snow or ice from in front of such lot or lots of
land. A notice of violation may also be issued to the property owner. The
city's direct and indirect costs shall be charged against such property owners.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying, or having
control of any premise to place, or permit to be placed upon or in the
sidewalk, parking area, gutter, or park strip:
      (1)   Any broken ware, glass, filth, rubbish, sweepings, refuse matter,
ice, snow, water, garbage, or other like substances;
      (2)   Fencing, building material, dead trees, tree stumps, merchandise or
other thing which shall obstruct such public street, gutter, parking area or
sidewalk, or any part thereof; or
      (3)   Any permanent or temporary structure, mechanism, device, vehicle,
or other thing of any kind or character except trees planted pursuant to the
provisions of applicable ordinance.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.011 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful to commit in or upon any public sidewalk or driveway
approach any act or thing which is an obstruction or interference to safe
pedestrian passage; or prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress, and
regress, therein, thereon, and thereto.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.012 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAYS; RELOCATION OF ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to install, alter, modify, or relocate
facilities or structures within the public or encroaching thereon.
   (B)   The City Engineer may direct the person owning or maintaining the
facilities or structures, at their own cost and expense and upon reasonable
written notice by the city, to promptly protect or promptly alter or relocate
such facilities or structures or parts thereof.
   (C)   In the event that such person refuses or neglects to comply with a
directive of the city, the city shall have the right to break through, remove,
alter, or relocate such part of the facilities or structures without liability
to such person. Such person shall pay to the city all costs incurred by the
city in connection with such work performed by the city, including design,
engineering, construction, materials, insurance, court costs, and attorney's
fees.
   (D)   Any directive by the City Engineer shall be based upon whether
facility or structure:
      (1)   Was installed, erected, or is being maintained contrary to law;
      (2)   Is found by the City Engineer or Building Official to be
structurally unsound or defective;
      (3)   Constitutes a nuisance as defined under state statute or city
ordinance;
      (4)   Was installed under authority that has expired or has been revoked;
      (5)   Is not in conformity with public improvements proposed consistent
with the General Plan of the city for the area;
      (6)   May pose a hindrance to construction to the public way to be
repaired or improved; or
      (7)   Has caused the grades or lines of the public way to be altered or
changed.
   (E)   Installation of mailboxes meeting the standards of the U.S. Postal
Service is permitted without obtaining a permit from the city.
      (1)   Mailboxes shall be placed so as to not interfere with public or
private property access ways or drainage facilities;
      (2)   Mailboxes must be constructed and maintained so that routine public
way maintenance such as snow plowing can occur without causing unnecessary
damage to the mailbox;
      (3)   The city reserves the right to relocate, temporarily or
permanently, any mailbox that is deemed a safety hazard or as needed to
complete a city-approved project; and
      (4)   The city accepts no liability for mailboxes placed in the public
right-of-way.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.020 RIGHT-OF-WAY EXCAVATION PERMIT: WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Excavations are any activities that will cause any physical
disturbance within any public right- of-way. This includes, but not necessarily
limited to, traditional excavation for the repair/replacement/installation of
service connections or other infrastructure; street cutting, potholing,
horizontal drilling, horizontal/vertical boring, and installation of conduit or
facilities that require excavation for construction such as for installation of
curb, curb cuts, gutter, sidewalk, driveways, driveway approaches or any other
physical improvement undertaken within any public right-of-way.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the city or its
authorized employees and agents, to commence excavation in any public way
without obtaining a right-of-way excavation permit from the City Engineer.
   (C)   Excavations under the definition of this chapter that are required or
anticipated based on a city approval for a subdivision or site plan shall
obtain a right-of-way excavation permit within existing city streets.
   (D)   A permit is not required:
      (1)   For hand-digging excavations for the installation or repair of
sprinkler systems and landscaping within the non-paved areas of the public way
that contain no public infrastructure. However, conformance to all city
specifications is required; or
      (2)   For public utility providers providing routine maintenance,
accessing their utility within the right-of-way, including exercising valves,
checking manholes, and other work that does not require excavation and having
given notice to the Public Works Director.
   (E)   Any work for which a permit is not required shall still be performed
in accordance with city standards and specifications the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices and other laws, regulations, and generally recognized
practices of the industry.
   (F)   The City Engineer shall not issue any permit but only in the case of
emergencies:
      (1)   For excavation of any public streets, roads, highways, or alleys
that were constructed, reconstructed, mill/repaved or overlaid, or had surface
treatment in the prior three years; and/or
      (2)   Between November 1 and March 15.
   (G)   Boring is the preferred method for crossing paved city roads.
Excavations shall not be approved unless it can be demonstrated that boring is
infeasible or impractical as an alternative.
   (H)   Longitudinal excavations of paved city roads shall not be approved
unless it can be demonstrated that all other alternatives are infeasible or
impractical.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.021 RIGHT-OF-WAY EXCAVATION PERMIT: APPLICATION.
   (A)   Only the following persons shall be eligible to apply for and receive
a right-of-way excavation permit:
      (1)   Contractors licensed by the State of Utah as general contractors;
      (2)   Providers;
      (3)   Property owners installing, replacing, or maintaining less than 500
square feet or 100 linear feet of sidewalk, curb, and gutter, or driveway
approach, or other work approved by the City Engineer, upon a portion of the
public way adjacent to their residence; or
      (4)   Persons offering a service which requires occupation of the public
way, such as scaffold or staging, staging of a crane, installation or
maintenance of electric signs, glass, or awnings, and painting or cleaning of
buildings or sign boards, or other structures.
   (B)   Property owners and/or tenants for whom work is being done shall be
responsible for obtaining the permits; provided, however, contractors may
obtain the permit in the property owner's name.
   (C)   Any person desiring a right-of-way excavation permit must first file
an application on forms prepared and furnished by the City Engineer.
      (1)   Content. A complete application shall include:
         (a)   Application form contents:
            1.   Information regarding site ownership: contractor(s) that will
conduct excavations and contact information for someone that will be available
24 hours a day and other relevant information.
            2.   Details of work to be conducted: All applications shall
include excavation plans and details, showing the trench(es) detail including
the length, width, and depth of the trench, the exact location and address of
the trench(es) and the relationship of the trench(es) to the right- of-way
lines, traffic lanes, intersections, signals, and structures.
            3.   To fully determine the relationship of the work proposed to
existing or proposed facilities within public rights-of-way, or to determine
whether the work proposed complies with the engineering regulations,
construction specifications, and design standards, the City Engineer may
require the filing of engineering plans, specifications, and sketches showing
the proposed work in sufficient detail to permit determination of such
relationship or compliance, or both, and the application shall be deemed
suspended until such plans and sketches are filed and approved.
            4.   Traffic control plan/measures - A traffic control plan, if
required by the City Engineer.
            5.   Copy of city stormwater construction activity permit, if
applicable and in compliance with Chapter 155: Stormwater Management.
            6.   For potholing, locations shall be indicated on a map and
permittee must also provide machinery to be used, size, and depth of potholes
and purpose(s).
         (b)   Bonds and insurance: All applications shall include the
requisite, bonds and insurance certificates as more particularly set forth in
this chapter.
         (c)   Remittance of fees.
         (d)   The City Engineer may require a mandatory on-site
preconstruction meeting no later than 24 hours prior to work starting or
earlier if a traffic control plan is required.
      (2)   Directional bore, additional requirements. Any person wanting to
conduct directional bore work within the city shall be required to provide, in
addition to the above, the following information:
         (a)   Plans. Engineered, detailed plans showing:
            1.   Locations of all excavations (including bore pits, vaults,
hand-hold boxes, pedestals, etc.).
            2.   Bore path (dimensioned off of back of curb or sidewalk).
            3.   All utilities that are crossed or running in close proximity
to the proposed bore.
            4.   These plans must either be produced by a company that
currently has a franchise agreement with the city or stamped by a professional
engineer licensed in the State of Utah.
         (b)   The applicant shall record, maintain, and provide copies of all
bore logs to the city.
         (c)   All sanitary sewer laterals that are crossed by a directional
bore shall be video inspected for damage after the bore and provided to the
WHSSD Superintendent.
            1.   A video inspection may be required for other reasons at the
discretion of the City Engineer or WHSSD Superintendent to verify that a city
utility lateral or main has not been damaged in the process of the bore.
         (d)   Utility and infrastructure repairs. The permitee shall be
responsible for damage or destruction to property and/or utilities during the
course of construction, including pipelines, culverts, conduits, cabling,
asphalt, and concrete pavement. Such damage must be repaired as soon as
practicable and restored to a condition equal to or better than it was prior to
initiating boring.
         (e)   Landscape restoration and repairs. In addition to any patching,
pavement, or other restoration:
            1.   Landscaping at bore-pit locations or any other locations
damaged or disturbed by contractor MUST be restored to a condition equal to or
better than it was previous to the bore job; and
            2.   Any components of an irrigation or sprinkler system (pipe,
control wire) that are damaged as a result of permitted directional bore work
must be repaired immediately upon discovery. Testing of sprinkler (or
irrigation) systems crossed by the bore is a requirement to finalize the permit
and close out work.
         (f)   Mandatory preconstruction meeting. A mandatory on-site
preconstruction meeting is required for all directional boring in the city at
least 48 hours (two business days) prior to work starting.
   (B)   The City Engineer may require written notice to be provided to any
resident or business within 500 feet of the center of trench. Additional public
notice may be required if conditions warrant.
   (C)   In approving or disapproving work within any public way, or permits
therefor, in the inspection of such work; in reviewing plans, sketches, or
specifications; and generally in the exercise of the authority conferred upon
them by this chapter, the City Engineer shall act in such manner as to preserve
and protect the public way and the use thereof, but shall have no authority to
govern the actions or inaction of permittees and applicants or other persons
which have no relationship to the use, preservation, or protection of the
public way.
   (D)   The decision by the City Engineer to issue a right-of-way excavation
permit shall include, among other factors determined by the city, the
following:
      (1)   The capacity of the public right-of-way to accommodate the
facilities or structures proposed to be installed in the public right-of-way;
      (2)   The capacity of the public right-of-way to accommodate multiple
wire in addition to cables, conduits, pipes, or other facilities or structures
of other users of the public right-of-way, such as electrical power, telephone,
gas, sewer, and water;
      (3)   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, or landscaping previously existing in the public right-of-way;
and/or
      (4)   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction from numerous excavations of the public right-of-way.
   (E)   The City Engineer may deny the issuance of permits to contractors,
utility companies, or other permit applicants who have shown by past
performance that, in the opinion of the City Engineer, they will not
consistently conform to the engineering regulations, specifications, design
standards, or the requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Appeals: The disapproval or denial of an application by the City
Engineer may be appealed by the applicant to the City Manager in the following
way:
      (1)   A written notice of appeal must be filed with the City Manager
within five business days of the denial by the City Engineer.
      (2)   The City Manager shall set a date for an informal hearing to
consider the appeal. The City Manager shall hold the informal hearing and shall
allow the appellant to present evidence regarding whether an error occurred in
the interpretation or implementation of this chapter.
      (3)   The City Manager shall render a written decision on the appeal
within five business days of the informal hearing with the appellant.
      (4)   The City Manager shall uphold the decision of the City Engineer
unless the City Manager finds that there has been an error in the
interpretation or implementation of this chapter.
      (5)   Any decision of the City Manager issued hereunder may be appealed
to the City Council by filing a written notice of appeal within ten business
days from the date of the final decision issued by the City Manager.
      (6)   The City Council shall hear such appeal as soon as practicable, if
the written request therefore is timely filed, and render its written decision
within three weeks following notice of such appeal.
      (7)   The City Council shall uphold the decision of the City Manager
unless the City Council finds that there has been an error in the
interpretation or implementation of this chapter.
      (8)   A finding in favor of an appellant does not hold the city
responsible for direct or indirect costs incurred by the permittee during the
time the stop work order was imposed.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.022 RIGHT-OF-WAY EXCAVATION PERMIT: OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application and permit fees.
      (1)   The city shall charge fees for the cost to review the application,
necessary site inspection(s), and general oversight of restoration with the
work performed. Fees shall include: permit/application fee; excavation:
shoulder, gravel, dirt road, excavation hard surface; road cut fee; soft
surface boring fee; pothole fee; new pavement cut fee/emergency permit; and
inspection fees.
      (2)   Fees are in accordance with the most recent Consolidated Fee
Schedule adopted by the City Council.
         (a)   The City Engineer may require additional charges to be assessed
to cover the reasonable cost and expenses of any required engineering review,
inspection, deterioration of the public way or diminution of the useful life of
the public based on the scope, complexity, and degree of impact to the public
right-of-way.
      (3)   The City Engineer may waive permit fees or penalties, or a portion
thereof, provided for in this chapter when they determine that such permit fee
or penalty:
         (a)   Pertains to the construction or rehabilitation of housing for
persons whose income is below the median income level for the city; or
         (b)   Pertains to an encroachment on the public way involving a
beautification project which furthers specific goals and objectives set forth
in the city's strategic plan, general plan, or other official documents,
including decorative street lighting, building facade lighting, flower and
planter boxes, and landscaping.
   (B)   Permit: duration, extensions.
      (1)   Each permit shall be effective as of the starting date indicated in
the application. Permits shall expire ten business days from the starting date
or as otherwise directed by the City Engineer.
      (2)   If once commenced, the permittee expects work to continue in excess
of ten business days, the permittee must file a permit renewal request with the
City Engineer.
      (3)   Prior to commencing, if work is expected to exceed ten business
days, the City Engineer may require the permittee to submit a detailed
construction schedule prior to approval. The schedule will address means and
methods to minimize traffic disruption, maintain safe vehicular and pedestrian
travel, and complete the construction as soon as reasonably possible.
   (C)   General conditions.
      (1)   Hours of operation for permitted work shall not begin before 7:00
a.m. and shall end before 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. The City Engineer
may modify hours of operation or authorize night or weekend work if special
conditions warrant.
      (2)   All excavations shall be conducted in a manner resulting in a
minimum amount of interference with or interruption of street or pedestrian
traffic.
      (3)   Inconvenience to residents and businesses fronting on the right-of-
way shall be minimized.
      (4)   Prior to any work in front of driveways, the permitee shall notify
the property owner in writing at least 24 hours in advance.
         (a)   Inconvenience caused by construction across driveways and
sidewalks shall be kept to a minimum by restoring the serviceability within 24
hours, or as otherwise approved by the city.
         (b)   If it is necessary to leave open excavation for a longer period
of time, the contractor shall provide structurally adequate steel plates to
bridge the excavation.
      (5)   All trench and pavement cuts shall be made by sawcut or by
grinding. Sawcuts or grinding shall be a minimum of one foot outside the trench
width. The top two inches of asphalt shall be ground down to a minimum distance
of one foot beyond the actual outside edges of the trench and shall be replaced
with two inches of Class B asphalt.
      (6)   The maximum amount of open trench permitted in any one location
shall be 200 feet, or the length necessary to accommodate the amount of pipe
installed in a single day, unless otherwise approved by the city.
      (7)   Construction of manholes or other appurtenances requiring added
construction and cure time may be left unpaved for additional time provided
they are properly barricaded. The city may adjust these limits if conditions
warrant.
      (8)   A clear pedestrian path of a width of at least ten feet must be
maintained throughout the duration of the permit. Safe pedestrian routes must
be established and maintained and may require the use of signage, barriers,
lighting, public notification, etc., as directed by the City Engineer.
      (9)   Suitable, adequate, and sufficient barricades and/or other
structures will be available and used where necessary to prevent accidents
involving property or persons.
      (10)   Barricades must be in place until all of the permittee's equipment
is removed from the site and the excavation has been backfilled and proper
temporary restoration is in place.
      (11)   From sunset to sunrise, all barricades and excavations must be
clearly outlined by adequate signal lights, torches, or other means to maintain
visibility.
      (12)   All open trenches within the public way shall be barricaded and
covered in conformance with the MUTCD.
      (13)   Where a job site is left unattended before completion of the work,
signage with minimum two-inch-high letters shall be attached to a barricade or
otherwise posted at the site, indicating the permittee's name or company name,
telephone number, and after-hours telephone number.
      (14)   If a separate traffic control plan was required by the City
Engineer and the Public Works Director, the Weber County Sheriff Department and
Weber County Fire Department shall be notified no less than 72 hours in advance
of any planned excavation requiring street full or partial closure and/or
traffic detour.
      (15)   Prior to the estimated completion date in the permit, the city may
determine that weather or other conditions are not conducive to the timely
completion of restoration of the public way and may suspend the permit at the
city's discretion until such conditions improve.
      (16)   If during the duration of the permit, the permittee wants to
temporarily suspend work due to weather or other conditions, the Public Works
Director shall be notified, and the expiration of the permit extended
accordingly.
      (17)   Any directive or demand by the city shall not be construed to
express or imply the city's financial participation in said directive or
demand. Unless described in a signed agreement with the city, clearly stating
the city's intent to participate financially in the work, all costs associated
with the permit and work are the sole responsibility of the permittee.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.023 NO TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Permits shall not be transferable or assignable, and work shall not be
performed under a permit in any place other than that specified in the permit
or work outside of approved scope.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent a permittee from subcontracting
the work to be performed under a permit; provided, however, that the holder of
the permit shall be and remain responsible for the performance of the work
under the permit, and for all bonding, insurance, and other requirements of
this chapter and under said permit.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.024 OTHER PERMITS.
   (A)   Excavation that will be performed on highways not owned or under the
jurisdiction of the city, but under the jurisdiction of other governmental
entities located within the city limits, shall, nonetheless, be required to
obtain permits from the city under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Approval of any city right-of-way excavation permit shall not be
construed to permit or allow work on a county road or a state highway within
the city without an applicable county or state permit. A copy of an approved
permit issued by the requisite jurisdiction must be submitted with the city
application.
   (C)   Any person exempt from obtaining a city permit that intends on
excavating rights-of-way under jurisdiction other than the city shall notify
the City Engineer prior to the commencement of such work. The city shall be
invited to any preconstruction meetings required by the permitting authority.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.025 EMERGENCY WORK.
   (A)   Any public utility company or provider that owns, operates, or leases
pipes, lines, or facilities in the public way may proceed with excavation for
existing facilities without a permit when emergency circumstances demand the
work to be done immediately, and a permit could not reasonably and practicably
have been obtained beforehand, and shall make applications no later than the
next business day.
   (B)   Excavation required by a resident or business owner may proceed
without a permit when emergency circumstances demand the work to be done
immediately and provided a permit could not reasonably and practicably have
been obtained beforehand and will make application no later than the next
business day.
   (C)   In the event that emergency work is commenced on or within any public
way of the city during regular business hours, the Public Works Director shall
be specifically notified within one hour from the time the work is commenced.
The person commencing and conducting such work shall take all necessary safety
precautions for the protection of the public and the direction and control of
traffic and shall ensure that work is accomplished according to City
Engineering regulations, the Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices, and
other applicable laws, regulations, or generally recognized practices in the
industry.
   (D)   Any person, public utility company or provider commencing emergency
work in the public way during other than business hours without a permit shall
give notice to the Public Works Director specifically during the first hour of
the first regular business day on which city offices are open for business
after such work is commenced and apply for a permit. A permit for such
emergency work may be issued, which shall be retroactive to the date when the
work was begun, at the discretion of the City Engineer.
   (E)   Any emergency work conducted on a road, street, highway, or alley that
has been constructed, reconstructed, mill/repaved, overlaid or had any surface
treatment(s) applied in the prior three years are subject to additional
patching and restoration requirements in accordance with city standards.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.026 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall furnish to the city
evidence that such applicant has a comprehensive general liability and property
damage policy that includes contractual liability coverage or with such
alternative limits and provisions as may be approved by the City Manager, after
consulting with the City Attorney:
      (1)   A minimum of $1,000,000 combined single limit per occurrence for
bodily injury, personal injury, and property damage and not less than
$1,000,000 in the aggregate. The general aggregate limit shall apply separately
to the permit, or the general aggregate limit shall be two times the required
occurrence limit.
      (2)   The coverage shall be in the nature of broad-form commercial
general liability coverage.
      (3)   The City Attorney may require increased or decreased minimum
insurance limits, depending on the potential liability of any project.
      (4)   All policies shall include the city, its employees, officers,
officials, agents, volunteers, and assigns as insureds. Any reference to the
city shall include the city, its employees, officers, officials, agents,
volunteers, and assigns.
      (5)   The coverage shall be primary insurance in respect to the city, its
employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers, and assigns. Any insurance
or self-insurance maintained by the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers, and assigns shall be in excess of the permittee's insurance
and shall not contribute to or with it.
      (6)   The permittee shall include all subcontractors as insured under its
policies or shall furnish separate certificates and endorsements for each
subcontractor. All coverage for subcontractors shall be subject to all of the
requirements stated herein.
      (7)   Any failure to comply with reporting provisions of the policy shall
not affect coverage provided to the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers, and assigns.
      (8)   Coverage shall state that the permittee's insurance shall apply
separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought,
except with respect to the limits of the insurer's liability.
      (9)   Underwriters shall have no right of recovery or subrogation against
the city, it being the intent of the parties that the insurance policy so
affected shall protect both parties and be primary coverage for any and all
losses covered by the described insurance.
      (10)   The insurance companies issuing the policy or policies shall have
no recourse against the city for payment of any premiums due or for any
assessments under any form of any policy.
      (11)   Each insurance policy shall be endorsed to state that the coverage
shall not be suspended, voided, canceled, or reduced in coverage or in limits,
except after 30 days' prior written notice by certified mail, return receipt
requested, sent to the city.
      (12)   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, save harmless, and
defend the city and its officers and employees against any claim or loss,
damage, or expense sustained on account of damages to persons or property
occurring by reason of permit work done by the permittee, or their
subcontractor or agent, whether or not the work has been completed and whether
or not the right-of-way has been opened to public travel.
      (13)   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, hold harmless, and
defend the city and its officers and employees against any claim or loss,
damage, or expense sustained by any person occurring by reason of doing any
work pursuant to the permit, including, but not limited to, falling objects or
failure to maintain proper barricades and/or lights as required from the time
work begins until the work is completed and the right-of-way is opened for
public use.
      (14)   Insurance is to be placed with insurers with an AM Best rating of
no less than an A carrier, with a rating of "T" or higher (with a rating of
seven or higher).
      (15)   The permittee shall furnish the city with certificates of
insurance and original endorsements affecting coverage required by the permit.
The certificates and endorsements for each insurance policy are to be signed by
a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its behalf. The city
expressly reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all
required insurance policies at any time. However, the permittee shall provide
such copies prior to the issuance of the permit.
   (B)   If any of the required policies are, or at any time become,
unsatisfactory to the City Manager or City Attorney as to form or substance, or
if a company issuing any such policy is, or at any time becomes, unsatisfactory
to the City Manager or City Attorney, the permittee shall promptly obtain a new
policy, submit the same to the City Manager for approval, and thereafter submit
verification of coverage as required by the City Manager or City Attorney. Upon
failure to furnish, deliver, and maintain such insurance as provided herein,
the City Manager or City Attorney may declare the permit to be in default and
pursue any and all remedies the city may have at law or in equity, including
those actions outlined in this chapter.
   (C)   Any deductibles or self-insured retentions shall be declared to and
approved by the City Manager or City Attorney. At the option of the city,
either the insurer shall reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured
retentions as respects to the city, its employees, officers, officials, agents,
volunteers, or assigns, or the permittee shall procure a bond, in a form
acceptable to the City Manager or City Attorney, guaranteeing payment of losses
and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses.
   (D)   A property owner performing work adjacent to their residence may
submit proof of a homeowner's insurance policy in lieu of the insurance
requirements of this section.
   (E)   A public utility company provider may be relieved of the obligation of
submitting certificates of insurance under the following circumstances, if such
company shall submit satisfactory evidence in advance that:
      (1)   It is insured in the amounts set forth in this chapter or has
complied with state requirements to become self-insured. Public utilities may
submit annually evidence of insurance coverage in lieu of individual
submissions for each permit;
      (2)   Said coverage provides to the city the same scope of coverage that
would otherwise be provided by a separate policy as required by this chapter;
or
      (3)   The work to be performed under the permit issued to the applicant
is to be performed by the city, in which case, the insurance requirement shall
be negotiated between the City Manager and the applicant by separate agreement.
   (F)   This chapter shall neither be construed as imposing upon the city, its
officers, employees and agents, any liability or responsibility for damages to
any person injured by or by reason of the performance of any work within the
public way, or under a permit issued pursuant to this chapter; nor shall the
city, its officers, officials, employees, agents, volunteers or assigns thereof
be deemed to have assumed any such liability or responsibility by reason of
inspection authorized hereunder, the issuance of any permit, or the approval of
any work.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.027 SECURITY: WHEN REQUIRED, CONDITIONS, WARRANTY.
   (A)   Except as noted in this chapter, each applicant, before being issued a
permit, shall provide the City Manager with an acceptable security (hereinafter
the "bond") in the form of either a cash bond or secure letter of credit or
other financial protection acceptable to the City Attorney.
   (B)   Public utilities franchised or authorized by separate agreement with
the city shall not be required to file a security if such requirement is
expressly waived in the franchise documents or other acceptable right-of-way
use agreement or license, or if such bond(s) has been provided with the
franchise grant or other acceptable right-of-way use agreement or license.
   (C)   All other contractors shall, at a minimum, provide security in the sum
of $2,000. The city shall hold this deposit or guarantee for a period of 24
months as surety against any defects or workmanship.
   (D)   The amount of the bond required may be increased at discretion of the
City Engineer based on the amount and cost of the work to be performed and the
limits and types of disturbances.
   (E)   The bond required by this section shall be conditioned as follows:
      (1)   The permittee shall fully comply with the requirements of the city
ordinances and regulations, specifications, and standards promulgated by the
city relative to work in the public way, and respond to the city in damages for
failure to conform therewith;
      (2)   After work is commenced, the permittee shall proceed with diligence
and expedition, and shall promptly complete such work and restore the public
way to construction specifications so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary;
      (3)   Upon acceptance of restoration by the City Engineer, the city shall
notify the permittee of the start date of the warranty assurance for a period
of one year from completion of such work, with reasonable wear and tear
excepted; and
      (4)   Upon completion of the warranty period, the permittee shall notify
the City Engineer in writing that the work is ready for final inspection. If
the work is found to be in satisfactory condition, the City Manager shall
authorize release of the bond or refund the cash escrow deposit within 60 days
of the written notification.
   (F)   The security may be forfeited in whole or in part as follows:
      (1)   The work is deemed a failure and there is no response within five
business days from the date the permittee is provided written notice to cure;
or
      (2)   An emergency or unsafe condition arises as a result of the failed
work in that notification to the permittee would further jeopardize public
safety, in which case the city may use all or part of the surety or deposit to
correct the unsatisfactory work; or
      (3)   The permittee fails to request a final inspection and 90 days lapse
after the warranty period, in which case the city shall consider the permit
abandoned and the surety or deposit forfeited to the city in full.
   (G)   The warranty period does not exempt the permittee from the
responsibility to respond and cure any defects in restoration at any time after
being notified by the city.
   (H)   If the permittee fails to respond to or cure any defects in
restoration, the city may undertake or take cause to undertake necessary work
to ensure public safety and all direct and indirect costs incurred shall be
recovered from the warranty surety.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.028 IMPACT OF EXCAVATIONS ON EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   If a proposed excavation within the public right-of-way is within the
vicinity of critical infrastructure, the city may, at its sole discretion, deny
the permit, or the city may charge the permittee for a city inspector to be
continuously on site during any permit work done in this vicinity.
   (B)   If any sidewalk or curb ramp is blocked by excavation work, a
temporary sidewalk or curb ramp shall be constructed or provided. Said
temporary improvement shall be safe for travel and convenient for users and
consistent with city standards for such.
   (C)   Where excavations are made in paved areas, the surface shall be
replaced with a temporary gravel surface or plated at the discretion of the
Public Works Director specifically until such time as the permanent repairs are
completed.
   (D)   Existing drainage channels, such as gutters or ditches, shall be kept
free of dirt or other debris so that natural flow will not be interrupted. When
it is necessary to block or otherwise interrupt the flow of the drainage
channel, a method of rerouting the flow must be submitted for approval by the
Director of Public Works specifically prior to the blockage of the channel.
   (E)   The requirements imposed upon the permittee extend to any
subcontractor or independent contractor that the permittee might employ to
perform the tasks pursuant to the permit.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.029 IMPACT OF EXCAVATIONS ON EXISTING PRIVATE PROPERTY IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to utilize the rights-of-way as the city
deems appropriate. Where excavations are made which impact private property/
owner improvements that have encroached upon the public way, the permitee shall
be responsible, as directed by the city, to ensure that such improvements are
returned, replaced, and/or restored to a condition that is comparable to the
condition that existed prior to the commencement of the work.
      (1)   The determination of what is considered a "comparable condition"
will be at the sole discretion of the city.
      (2)   The city shall not be responsible for private improvements
constructed in or encroaching on the public way.
   (B)   At any time a permittee disturbs the yard, residence, or the real or
personal property of a private property owner or the city, such permittee shall
ensure that such property is returned, replaced, and/or restored to a condition
that is comparable to the condition that existed prior to the commencement of
the work.
   (C)   The costs associated with the disturbance and the return, replacement,
and/or restoration shall be borne by the permittee. Further, a permittee shall
reimburse the property owner or the city for any actual damage caused by the
permittee, their subcontractor, or their independent contractor, in connection
with the disturbance of such property.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall require the permittee to pay a
subscriber or private property owner when that subscriber or private property
owner requests that the permittee remove, replace, or relocate improvements
associated with the service provided by the permittee to the property owner,
and when the permittee exercises due care in the performance of that service,
or when the subscriber or private property owner provided false information to
the permittee on which the permittee relied to their detriment.
   (E)   Examples of acts specifically included in this section, but not
necessarily limited to, are the following:
      (1)   Removal of sod, lawn, shrubbery, flowers, trees, driveways, or
fences;
      (2)   Installing, trenching, repairing, replacing, removal, or locating
equipment, cables, or other appurtenances of the permittee;
      (3)   Installation or removal of equipment or other appurtenances of the
permittee's system within a private property owner's property or residence
which requires drilling, excavating, plastering, or the like on the part of the
permittee;
      (4)   Temporarily relocating or moving a piece of personal property or a
fixture of a private property owner (such as a motor vehicle, fence, air
conditioning or heating unit, or the like) in order to perform some sort of
construction, maintenance, or repair by the permittee; or
      (5)   Permanently removing a permittee's equipment or other appurtenances
due to the revocation, termination, or non-renewal of the franchise (if
applicable).
   (F)   The requirements imposed upon the permittee extend to any
subcontractor or independent contractor that the permittee might employee to
perform the tasks pursuant to the permit.
   (G)   The requirements of this section shall not apply to the removal by a
permittee of a permanent structure placed by a property owner in a public way,
unless such property owner has received prior written permission from the city
granting the property owner the right to install a permanent structure on a
public way, and such written permission has been recorded in the office of the
County Recorder.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.030 RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY; PATCHING AND RESTORATION POLICIES,
PROCEDURES, AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The permittee shall, at their own expense, restore the surface of any
public way to its original condition and replace any removed or damaged
pavement with the same type and depth of pavement as that which is adjoining,
including the gravel base material. All restoration shall conform to the
engineering regulations, design standards, and specifications promulgated by
the city and shall be accomplished within the time limits set forth in the
permit, unless otherwise modified by the city.
   (B)   Temporary surfacing. Temporary surfaces are a critical component in
maintaining highway and worksite safety. They can significantly reduce
potential life-safety hazards and minimize collateral damage to adjacent road
surfaces when properly installed.
   (C)   No trenches shall remain open overnight or for cessation of work of
more than eight hours.
   (D)   Requirements governing the proper use and installation of temporary
surfacing include:
      (1)   Temporary asphalt surfaces are required on any street opening if
the final/permanent surface is not installed at the end of each workday.
      (2)   Temporary restoration of trenches for overnight use shall be
accomplished by using MC mix (cold mix), asphalt treated base (ATB), or steel
plates, as approved by the city.
      (3)   Regardless of method, the trench must be filled flush with asphalt
to provide a smooth riding surface.
      (4)   The city may approve steel plates:
         (a)   When backfill operations of an excavation in the traveled way,
whether transverse or longitudinal, cannot be properly completed within a
workday, steel plate bridging with non-skid surface and shoring may be required
to preserve unobstructed traffic flow;
         (b)   The permittee shall ensure that plating is structurally safe and
adequate, but in no case less than the following requirements:
 
Trench Width    Minimum Plate Thickness
Up to 12"       1/2"
> 12" and < 24" 3/4"
> 24" and < 30" 1"
> 30" and< 60"  1 ¼"
 
         (c)   Plates must be milled into the asphalt, so they are flush with
the existing surface and placed using mastic and secured to the existing
pavement by mechanical means;
         (d)   Plates should be welded together whenever possible to avoid
slippage and pinned in place using approved dowels;
         (e)   Approach plate(s) and ending plate (if longitudinal placement)
shall be attached to the roadway by minimum of two dowels through pre-drilled
holes in the corners of the plate and drilled at least three inches into the
pavement. Subsequent plates are butted to each other;
         (f)   Fine graded asphalt concrete shall be compacted to form ramps,
maximum (slope 8.5%) with a minimum of 12-inch taper) to cover all edges of the
steel plates. Hot or cold mix asphalt must be placed around the perimeter
surface of the plate;
         (g)   When steel plates are removed, the dowel holes in the pavement
shall be backfilled with either graded fines of asphalt concrete mix or
concrete slurry or equivalent slurry that is approved by the City Engineer;
         (h)   The contractor is responsible for maintenance of steel plates,
shoring, asphalt concrete ramps, and ensuring that they meet minimum
specifications; and
         (i)   Install signage W8-24 "Steel Plate Ahead" when steel plates are
placed on the roadway, and place sign WI-1 "Bump" with a W16-7P diagonal
downward pointing arrow adjacent to the steel plate.
   (E)   Work site restoration. Unless authorized by the City Engineer, all
paving, resurfacing, or replacement of street facilities shall be done:
      (1)   Within three calendar days or within seven calendar days from the
time the excavation commences on all other streets; or
      (2)   Except as provided for during weather conditions which do not allow
paving according to engineering regulations, including emergency permits issued
between November 1 and March 15.
   (F)   The type and extent of site restoration is based on the location,
width, depth, condition of road, number of excavations and distance between
excavations.
      (1)   Perpendicular cuts.
         (a)   A “T” patch shall be made where the asphalt shall be removed and
replaced a minimum of:
            1.   Two feet beyond the limits of any excavation, including
undermining, where the excavation is up to four feet in depth;
            2.   Three feet beyond the limits of any excavation, including
undermining, where the excavation is more than four feet in depth;
            3.   Match the thickness of the existing aggregate base; and
            4.   Match the thickness of the existing asphalt plus one inch,
provided that the asphalt patch may not have a thickness of less than four
inches or more than seven inches.
         (b)   On collector and arterial roads, perpendicular cuts shall extend
to the full width of any travel lane regardless of the age of the road.
         (c)   When multiple cuts are made in the same location, the asphalt
shall be milled and overlaid between patches that are 30 feet or closer to one
another.
         (d)   When three or more cuts are made, a chip seal and fog coat shall
be placed over the top of the patches. The chip seal shall extend across all
patches and shall be the full width of the road.
      (2)   Longitudinal/parallel cuts.
         (a)   Parallel cuts shall meet the same requirements as under §
152.030(E)(1).
         (b)   Any parallel cuts that affect a travel lane shall be patched or
overlaid to the width of the travel lane regardless of the age of the road.
         (c)   If the outside of the trenching is within three feet of any
adjacent lane line, the entire adjacent traveled lane affected will be
overlaid.
      (3)   Excavations on a road under a moratorium due to road construction
or reconstruction within the past five years or application of a seal coat
within the past three years.
         (a)   A 50-foot wide road patch shall be installed on either side of
the excavation with the road patch extending across the entire width of the
roadway; and
         (b)   If the roadway is under a chip seal coat moratorium, the
permittee shall also reapply the seal coat over the patch.
      (4)   Requirements for paving installed during winter.
         (a)   During the winter months when local hot mix asphalt plants are
closed, cold patch is
used to patch road cuts.
         (b)   Winter paving plans. Winter paving plans are required for all
pavement cuts in the city right-of-way installed between November 1 and March
15.
         (c)   Winter paving plans shall include, but are not necessarily
limited to:
            1.   Project-related information, including permit number, job
address, contractor, temporary patch type, and install date. Temporary patches
other than asphalt cold patch must be approved by the Public Works Director or
City Engineer.
            2.   Cold patch (temporary patch) must be regularly checked and
maintained by contractor throughout the winter months until a permanent patch
is installed. If the patch is damaged or destroyed, the contractor must replace
it immediately.
            3.   Patch must be flush to the road surface when installed. If the
patch is raised above the road surface and causes damage to city snow-removal
equipment, the contractor shall be held liable for damages.
            4.   Permanent patch plans for installing permanent patch shall
include, but are not necessarily limited to:
               a.   Asphalt plant source for the hot mix;
               b.   Paving subcontractor;
               c.   Company performing the compaction tests; and
               d.   Anticipated install date for the hot mix patch.
         (d)   Cold patch shall be removed and replaced with a hot mix asphalt
patch meeting the requirements of this chapter no later than May 15.
      (5)   Potholing/boring.
         (a)   Potholing and boring restoration shall meet the same
requirements as trenching and pavement restoration.
         (b)   Potholing shall be a minimum of one foot beyond the excavation.
All affected lanes will be ground down to a depth of two inches and paved not
less than six and one-half feet wide for the entire width of the lane.
         (c)   Potholes greater than five feet in length, width, or diameter
shall be restored to trench restoration standards.
         (d)   Restoration requirements utilizing vactor equipment will be
determined by the city.
      (6)   Other requirements.
         (a)   Permittees will be required to provide a batch ticket from the
asphalt plant specific to the asphalt that is being installed in the permanent
patch to confirm mix being applied. No permanent patch will be accepted without
batch ticket.
         (b)   Permittees shall measure and record the ambient temperature and
the temperature of the asphalt as it is being placed. If the asphalt mix
temperature has dropped below the minimum required temperature set forth in
city standards, it cannot be used in a permanent patch.
         (c)   Hot mix design for permanent asphalt patches shall be in
conformance with city standards. Any material placed as a pavement patch that
does NOT meet the specified standards will be considered "temporary" and must
be replaced with a conforming permanent patch within seven days.
         (d)   Concrete placed in the public way shall be in conformance with
city standards. If concrete is found not to be in conformance, it will be
rejected and must be replaced with a cold weather mix approved by the City
Engineer or Public Works Director.
         (e)   Failure to install permanent patch. If the contractor has not
installed the required permanent patch and has not contacted the Public Works
Director or City Engineer in writing of an installation date, the City Engineer
may revoke the permit. The city will use the permit bond to engage another
contractor to finish the work.
         (f)   The city has the right to determine in the field that a full
street-width (edge-of-pavement to edge-of-pavement) overlay is required due to
changes in the permit conditions such as, but not limited to the following:
            1.   There has been damage to the existing asphalt surface due to
the contractor's equipment.
            2.   The trench width was increased significantly, or the existing
pavement is undermined or damaged.
            3.   Any other construction related activities that require
additional pavement restoration.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.031 HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT; LIMITATIONS ON CITY LIABILITY.
   (A)   The permittee agrees to hold the city, its officers, employees, and
agents harmless from any and all costs, damages, and liabilities which may
accrue or be claimed to accrue by reason of any work performed under any permit
issued under authority of this chapter. The issuance and acceptance of any
permit under this chapter shall constitute such an agreement by the permittee
to this section.
   (B)   This chapter shall neither be construed as imposing upon the city, or
its officers, employees, and agents, any liability or responsibility for
damages to any person injured by or by reason of the performance of any work
within the public way, or under a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter,
nor shall the city, its officers, officials, employees, agents, volunteers, or
assigns thereof be deemed to have assumed any such liability or responsibility
by reason of inspection authorized hereunder, the issuance of any permit, or
the approval of any work.
   (C)   The hold harmless agreement shall remain in force during the permit
warranty period.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.032 TAMPERING WITH TRAFFIC BARRICADES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or wantonly, or without
authorization and legal cause, extinguish, remove, or diminish any light
illuminating any barricade or excavation, or to tear down, remove, or in any
manner alter any rail, fence, or barricade protecting any excavation or other
construction site.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.033 CONFLICT WITH GOVERNING PROVISIONS.
   Should there be a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any other ordinance, agreement, franchise, or other document
governing the excavation of a public right-of-way, the more restrictive
provisions of the aforesaid documents shall apply.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.090 ENFORCEMENT: NOTICE OF VIOLATION, CORRECTIVE ACTIONS, AND STOP WORK
ORDERS.
   (A)   The City Engineer and Public Works Director shall have the authority
to issue notices of violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Notices of violation may be issued, and fines and penalties imposed
for:
      (1)   Violation of any condition of the permit, the bond, or of any
provision of this chapter;
      (2)   Violation of any provision of any other ordinance of the city or
law relating to the work;
      (3)   Existence of any condition, or the doing of any act, which does
constitute, may constitute, or causes a condition endangering life or property;
      (4)   Failure to conform to city design standards; and/or
      (5)   Excavating in the right-of-way without a permit.
   (C)   Other enforcement actions that may be imposed include:
      (1)   Revocation or suspension of permit;
      (2)   Full stop work order;
      (3)   Conditional stop work order;
      (4)   Order removal and replacement of faulty work or restoration; and/or
      (5)   Require an extension of the warranty period.
   (D)   Nothing shall preclude the Code Enforcement Officer from issuing
notices of violation and imposing finds under their jurisdiction, including
City Code, Chapter 90: Health and Sanitation; Nuisances.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.091 EFFECT OF ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   (A)   A suspension or revocation of the permit shall have the same effect as
the issuance of a stop work order.
   (B)   A stop work order shall take effect immediately upon entry thereof by
the Public Works Director or the City Engineer, and notice given to the person
performing the work in the public right-of- way.
   (C)   Notice shall be accomplished when the Public Works Director or City
Engineer has posted a stop work order at the location of the work and written
notice has been mailed, return receipt requested, to the address indicated by
the permittee on the permit.
   (D)   A stop work order shall take effect without notice having been mailed
if in the opinion of the Public Works Director or City Engineer that with the
violation there exists any condition, or act undertaken by the permittee, which
does constitute, may constitute, or causes a condition endangering life or
property.
   (E)   Whenever the Public Works Director or City Engineer finds that a
default has occurred in the performance of any term or condition of the permit,
written notice thereof may be given to the principal and to the surety on the
bond, if there is a surety bond. Such notice shall state the work to be done,
the estimated cost thereof, and the period of time deemed to be reasonably
necessary for the completion of the work.
   (F)   In the event that the surety (or principal), within a reasonable time
following the giving of such notice (taking into consideration the exigencies
of the situation, the nature of the work, the requirements of public safety,
and for the protection of persons and property), fails either to commence and
cause the required work to be performed with due diligence, or to indemnify the
city for the cost of doing the work, as set forth in the notice, the city may
perform the work, at the discretion of the Public Works Director or City
Engineer with city forces or contract forces or both, and suit may be commenced
by the City Attorney against the contractor and bonding company, and such other
persons as may be liable, to recover the entire amount due to the city,
including attorney's fees, on account thereof.
      (1)   In the event that cash has been deposited, the cost of performing
the work may be charged against the amount deposited, and suit brought for the
balance due, if any.
   (G)   Any damage to city-owned facilities or damages resulting from the
interruption of services caused by any person working without a permit shall be
the sole responsibility of that person. The city shall employ whatever
resources necessary, city personnel and equipment, contractors, or both, to
repair damage and/or re-establish services and the entire cost of those
resources shall be borne by the person.
   (H)   A stop work order may be lifted after the permittee has made all
corrective actions to the satisfaction of the City Engineer.
   (I)   Fines, penalties, or cost of damages must be paid in full before the
city will issue a permit to commence the suspended work.
   (J)   A stop work order may be lifted conditionally before or during the
implementation of corrective actions, in the judgment of the City Engineer, as
long as resumption of the work does not continue, not constitute, nor cause a
condition endangering life or property.
   (K)   The city reserves the right to revoke a permit and issue no further
permits to any person who has failed to correct any default that has occurred
in the performance of any term or conditions of this chapter.
   (L)   The permittee may appeal a stop work order pursuant to the appeal
procedure set forth in § 152.021(F).
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a violation of any
provision of this chapter, or failure to comply with an order of suspension,
revocation or stop work, shall be a class B misdemeanor with corresponding
fines and jail penalties.
   (B)   Each day any permit violation exists shall be a separate offense. No
criminal conviction shall excuse the person from otherwise complying with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person owning or maintaining facilities or structures in the
public way who fails to alter, modify, or relocate such facilities or structure
upon notice by the city shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, with
corresponding fines and jail penalties. All costs of alteration, modification,
or relocation shall be borne by the person owning or maintaining the facilities
or structures involved.
   (D)   Violators may also be subject to penalties that may be imposed by the
state, county, or federal government.
(Ord. 06-2024, passed 3-6-2024)
CHAPTER 153: TREES
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Tree Board
   
153.04   Public trees
   
153.05   Private trees
   
153.06   City authority
   
153.07   Licensing of private tree care firms
   
153.08   Enforcement of code
   
153.09   State code
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies, regulations, and
standards necessary to ensure that the city will continue to realize the
benefits provided by its urban forest. The provisions of this chapter are
enacted to establish the Tree Board as part of the Parks and Recreation
Committee; provide guidance to the Tree Board; establish requirements of tree
care personnel working on public trees; coordinate maintenance of public trees;
promote education for all citizens on proper tree care practices and encourage
tree diversity; and nurture community participation in tree care and planting.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.010) (Ord. 18-2008, passed 11-5-2008)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ARBORICULTURAL. Having to do with the accepted practices of tree care.
   CITY FORESTER. A person designated in writing by the City Manager to manage
the city urban tree forestry program.
   CITY STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any city-owned roadway, street, lane, or right-of-
way used or available for public transportation.
   FLUSH. Cutting within the branch bark collar or ridge of a branch when
pruning.
   PARK. A parcel of land dedicated to the public or owned by the city, either
in fee simple absolute, or implied or expressly dedicated to the public for the
primary purpose of recreation and/or green space.
   PARK TREE. Any tree or shrub, or other woody vegetation, on park property.
   PRIVATE TREE. Any tree, shrub, or other woody vegetation not on public
property.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The record owner or contract purchaser of any parcel of
land.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property owned by the city either in fee simple absolute,
or implied or expressly dedicated to the public for the present or future use,
for purposes of pedestrian, or vehicular traffic, or for public easements.
   PUBLIC TREE. Any tree, shrub, or other woody vegetation on public property.
   SHRUB. A perennial, multiple-stemmed woody plant often formed by a number of
vertical or semi-upright branches arising from close to, or at, ground level
and whose height at maturity is usually between three and 15 feet.
   STREET TREE. Any tree, shrub, or other woody vegetation on lands with the
city street rights-of-way.
   TOPPING. Lopping, rounding over, or leaving long branch stubs when pruning;
not pruning to an auxiliary branch.
   TREE. A woody perennial plant, generally with one main stem and usually over
ten feet tall at maturity.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.020) (Ord. 18-2008, passed 11-5-2008)
§ 153.03 TREE BOARD.
   The City Parks and Recreation Committee will function in addition as the
Tree Board. The Tree Board will be noted as the “Tree Board” in this chapter.
The additional functions, duties, and authority of the Tree Board is limited by
this chapter.
   (A)   The Tree Board shall draft and recommend necessary amendments to the
tree ordinance.
   (B)   The Tree Board shall create, draft, and recommend the West Haven City
Tree Specifications Manual, which will have guidelines for tree selection,
planting, maintenance, and removal of trees in the city public areas. The Board
will present the manual to the Mayor and City Council, for approval by
resolution. The Tree Board will review the Tree Specifications Manual annually.
   (C)   The Board may assist the city as needed with fundraising, Arbor Day
celebrations, and educational programs and materials. The Board may also assist
the city with preparing a community forestry plan.
   (D)   The Board will keep the Council appraised of its activities.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.030) (Ord. 18-2008, passed 11-5-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Tree Board duties, membership, regulations, see §
32.01
§ 153.04 PUBLIC TREES.
   (A)   Duties of adjacent property owner; planting and removal.
      (1)   No person shall plant or remove trees in or upon parking strips or
public grounds without first obtaining an encroachment permit from the city.
      (2)   A condition of the encroachment permit shall be the acceptance by
the permittee of responsibility for the repair and replacement of any damage to
sprinkling systems or adjacent property caused during the work under the
permit.
      (3)   No tree shall be planted in the city rights-of-way except of the
species recommended in the West Haven Tree Specifications Manual, unless in
writing approved by the City Forester. If an existing tree is not on the
current tree list, but the City Forester does not consider it an immediate
concern due to pests, disease, or hazard, current removal of the tree is not
required.
      (4)   No tree shall be planted so as to cause, in the opinion of the City
Forester or a law enforcement officer, a traffic hazard, and all trees shall be
planted according to the guidelines.
      (5)   In parking strips of four and one-half feet or less in width, trees
must be centered when planted. In parking strips wider than four and one-half
feet, no tree shall be planted closer than three feet from the curb.
      (6)   Tree damage to curbs, and/or sidewalks, will be the home owner’s
responsibility for the cost of removal and/or repair.
   (B)   Tree maintenance. It shall be the duty of any person growing a tree
within a public street right-of-way or responsible for trees growing on
property abutting on public grounds supporting trees or plants to provide
adequate maintenance:
      (1)   Sufficient water, mulching, and protection from compaction or
injury by vehicles or other causes;
      (2)   Prune the public trees so as to not cause a hazard to public places
or interfere with the proper lighting of public streets by the street lights,
and so that the minimum clearance of any overhanging portion thereof shall be
nine feet. The trees shall be at least 50 feet from any intersection and shall
be so pruned as to not block any traffic signs. See West Haven City Tree
Specifications Manual for acceptable pruning methods; and
      (3)   Treat or remove any tree or plant that has died or that is diseased
or insect-infested as to constitute a hazard to trees or plants in public
grounds. If there is a new invasive pest or disease that is considered a great
threat, the tree will be removed or treated immediately. The stump should be
ground or dug out if required by the City Forester.
   (C)   Unlawful to abuse public tree.
      (1)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to neglect,
abuse, poison, or mutilate any public tree or shrub.
      (2)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to top any public tree or
to flush cut any branch on public trees, except in an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.040) (Ord. 18-2008, passed 11-5-2008) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 PRIVATE TREES.
   (A)   Order to preserve or remove procedure. When the City Forester shall
find it necessary to order the trimming, preservation, or removal of trees or
plants upon private property due to serious epidemic, disease, or pest, or to
hazardous conditions which pose a threat to public safety or the welfare of the
urban forest, the City Forester shall serve a written order to correct the
dangerous condition upon the owner, operator, occupant, or other person
responsible for the tree’s existence within the time provided.
   (B)   Method of service. The order may be served in one of the following
ways:
      (1)   By making personal delivery of the order to the person responsible;
      (2)   By affixing a copy of the order to the door at the entrance of the
premises in violation; or
      (3)   By mailing a copy of the order to the last known address of the
owner of the premises by registered mail.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.050) (Ord. 18-2008, passed 11-5-2008)
§ 153.06 CITY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Forester shall have jurisdiction and supervision over all
trees, shrubbery, plants, and grassy areas planted or growing in public
grounds. The powers and duties of the City Forester shall be established by
regulation, which powers shall include, but not be limited to, the power to
direct planting, irrigating, pruning, spraying, or the removing of shade and
ornamental trees and shrubbery now growing or which may hereafter be planted on
any public grounds.
   (B)   The city is authorized to do the following with respect to conditions
caused by trees or shrubs on city tree planting strips, public parks, or other
city property:
      (1)   Remove dead limbs or trees, or trees or limbs that have already
fallen across city property;
      (2)   Remove diseased or dying trees that are beyond reclamation, or that
are a hazard as determined by the City Forester;
      (3)   Remove trees or roots directly in the way of street widening
projects, new curbs, and gutter or sidewalk and curb repairs; and
      (4)   Prune all trees and shrubs.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.060) (Ord. 18-2008, passed 11-5-2008)
§ 153.07 LICENSING OF PRIVATE TREE CARE FIRMS.
   Any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of trimming or
removing public trees shall carry public liability and property damage
insurance in an amount to be determined by the City Council, and policies or
certificates thereof shall be filed with the City Clerk. They will also acquire
and maintain a license from the city to perform tree work on trees in the
rights-of-way or public locations. Such license shall be revocable for cause
including, but not limited to, failure to maintain the required insurance, and
shall terminate upon its stated date of expiration. Such license may be renewed
pursuant to city policies provided the applicant has fully complied with all
licensing terms and conditions.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.070) (Ord. 18-2008, passed 11-5-2008)
§ 153.08 ENFORCEMENT OF CODE.
   (A)   Interference with planting, maintenance, and removal unlawful. No
person, firm, or corporation shall interfere with city personnel while engaged
in planting, mulching, pruning, or removing any tree, shrub, or plant in any
street or public place within the city.
   (B)   Enforcement. Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall
be punishable by a fine equal to the monetary value of the tree as assessed by
a certified arborist or tree appraiser using the guidelines established by the
International Society of Arboriculture and the degree of damage to the tree.
Penalty for violation to be enforced by the City Forester or Code Enforcement
Officer.
   (C)   Resolution of conflicts between trees and structures. Where sidewalk
or curb damage due to tree roots occur, every effort shall be made to correct
the problem without removing or damaging the tree. The City Forester shall be
responsible for developing or approving corrective measures in consultation
with the City Engineer. The city shall not be liable for costs incurred by a
property owner for resolution of any such conflict.
   (D)   Liability. Nothing in this chapter or within the Tree Specifications
Manual shall be deemed to impose any liability for damages or a duty of care
and maintenance upon the city or upon any of its officers or employees, nor to
relieve the owner of any private property from the duty to keep the trees,
shrubs, or plants upon their property or on street tree area under the private
property owner’s control in a safe, healthy condition.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.080) (Ord. 18-2008, passed 11-5-2008) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 STATE CODE.
   UCA § 41-6a-216, “Removal of Plants or Other Obstructions Impairing
View–Notice to Owner–Penalty:”
   (A)   The owner of real property shall remove from his or her property any
tree, plant, shrub, or other obstruction, or part of it, which, by obstructing
the view of any operator, constitutes a traffic hazard.
   (B)   The failure of the owner to remove the traffic hazard within ten days
is an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.100) (Ord. 18-2008, passed 11-5-2008) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter is a Class C misdemeanor and shall, at the
discretion of the city, also subject the offender to other civil remedies
available to the city for its reasonable costs to restore, or replace, any such
damage, neglected, abused, poisoned, mutilated, topped, or flush cut public
tree.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.040) (Ord. 18-2008, passed 11-5-2008)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE AND PREVENTION
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   General provisions
   
154.04   Administration
   
154.05   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the State of Utah in Utah
Code Ann. § 10-3-701 delegated the responsibility to local governmental units
to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the
governing body of West Haven City, Utah, does ordain as follows:
      (1)   The City of West Haven elects to comply with the requirements of
the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-488, as amended). The
National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) is a voluntary program administered by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The National Flood Insurance
Program, established in the aforesaid act, provides that areas of the city
having a special flood hazard be identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and that floodplain management measures be applied in such flood hazard
areas. The National Flood Insurance Program was broadened and modified with the
passage of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 and other legislative
measures. It was further modified by the National Flood Insurance Reform Act of
1994. The National Flood Insurance Program is administered by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, a component of the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas located within the boundaries of the city,
and as identified on applicable Federal Floodplain Maps, as currently adopted,
are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property,
health, and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
and extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of
which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These potential flood losses are caused by:
         (a)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains that are
known to cause increases in flood heights and velocities;
         (b)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by structures vulnerable to
floods because they are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages; and
         (c)   Uses deemed unsuitable for floodplain areas or that do not
account for the increased flood risk.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize the expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Protect and safeguard the welfare and safety of first responders
should an emergency response is needed;
      (5)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions caused by flooding;
      (6)   Minimize damage to public infrastructure and facilities including,
but not limited to, utilities such as water mains, sanitary sewers, streets,
and bridges, as well as natural gas, electric, and telephone lines, streets,
and bridges susceptible to flooding;
      (7)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      (8)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
   (D)   Methods of reducing flood losses. To accomplish the purposes outlined
in §
154.01(C), this chapter applies the following methods:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development that may
increase flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.010) (Ord. 16-2005, passed 11-16-2005; Ord. 22-2023,
passed 11-1-2023)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and
cause the most reasonable application of the terms and requirements herein.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. A flood having a recurrence interval that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded during any given year (1% annual chance flood). The
terms 100-YEAR FLOOD  and "1% annual chance flood" are synonymous. The term
does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every 100 years.
Mandatory flood insurance requirements may apply.
   500-YEAR FLOOD. A flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded during any given year (0.2% annual chance flood).
The term does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every 500
years and mandatory flood insurance requirement generally does not apply.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure that is on the same parcel of property as a
principal structure. Its use is incidental to the use of the principal
structure; the ownership of the ACCESSORY STRUCTURE is the same owner as of the
principal structure. An ACCESSORY STRUCTURE is a non-residential structure of
low value that is used solely for the parking of vehicles and storage of tools,
materials, or equipment. No human habitation is allowed within an ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE.
   ADDITION. Any improvement that expands the enclosed footprint or increases
the square footage of an existing structure. This includes lateral ADDITIONS
added to the side, front, or rear of a structure; vertical ADDITIONS added on
top of a structure; and enclosures added underneath a structure.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar land form which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. See “accessory structure.”
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and
“alluvial fan flooding” can occur.
   AREA OF FUTURE-CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood, based on future-conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO or AR/AH Zone on a
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% chance or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable,
and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by
ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD-RELATED EROSION HAZARD. The land within a community
that is most likely to be subject to severe flood-related erosion losses. The
area may be designated as Zone E on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After
the detailed evaluation of the special flood-related erosion hazard area, in
preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone E may be further refined.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed
rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, A1-30, AE, AI-99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A or Vi 30, VE, or V.
   ASCE. The American Society of Civil Engineers.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the 1% annual
chance flood event. It is the height in relation to mean sea level expected to
be reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in the
floodplains of coastal and riverine areas. It is also the elevation shown on
the FIRM and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones A,
AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that
level in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BEST AVAILABLE DATA. The existing flood hazard information adopted by a
community and reflected on an effective FIRM, FBFM, and/or within an FIS
report; or draft or preliminary flood hazard information supplied by FEMA or
from another source. Other sources may include, but are not limited to, the
state, other federal agencies, or local studies, the more restrictive of which
would be reasonably used by the community.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system. Any walls below the lowest
floor in a building in a V or VE Zone should give way under wind and water
loads without causing collapse, displacement, or other damage to the elevated
portion of the building of the supporting pilings or columns. Breakaway walls
apply only to V or VE Zones.
   BUILDING. See “structure.”
   CHANNELIZATION. The artificial creation, enlargement, realignment, or
alteration of a stream channel's slope, shape, or alignment. Stream bank
restoration may be deemed as CHANNELIZATION.
   CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS (CFR). The codification of the general and
permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the executive departments
and agencies of the federal government.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). FEMA's comment on a proposed
project that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic and/or hydraulic
characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the
existing regulatory floodway, the effective BFEs, and/or the SFHA. This letter
does not revise an effective map; it indicates whether the project, if built as
proposed, would be recognized by FEMA.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F). FEMA's comment
on a proposed structure or property. The letter does not revise an effective
map; it indicates whether the project, if built as proposed, would be removed
from the floodplain.
   CRAWLSPACE. An under-floor space that has its interior floor area (finished
or not) no more than four feet from the bottom floor joist the next higher
floor elevation, designed with proper openings that equalize hydrostatic
pressures of flood water, and is not used for habitation.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility or building where even a slight chance of
flooding is too great a threat. Typical critical facilities include hospitals,
fire stations, police stations, schools, storage of critical records, assisted
living and similar facilities.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEED RESTRICTION. A clause in a deed that limits the future use of the
property in some respect. Deed restrictions may impose a vast variety of
limitations and conditions. For example, they may limit the density of
buildings, dictate the types of structures that can be erected, or prevent
buildings from being used for specific purposes or from being used at all.
   DETACHED GARAGE. A building that is used solely for storage of materials or
vehicle parking for up to four housing occupants. If a DETACHED GARAGE is
designed or used for habitation or conducting business, or has multiple
stories, then the building is not considered a DETACHED GARAGE under the NFIP.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations, or temporary or
permanent storage, equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building:
      (1)   In the case of a building in Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99, AR, AO, AH, B,
C, X and D, to have the top of the elevated floor above the ground level by
means of pilings, columns (post and piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow
of the water and adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural
integrity of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base
flood.
      (2)   In the case of a building in Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99, AR, AO, AH, B,
C, X and D, an ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of
fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate
the unimpeded movement of floodwaters.
   ENCLOSURE. An enclosed walled-in area below the lowest floor of an elevated
building. ENCLOSURES below the BFE may only be used for building access,
vehicle parking, and storage.
   EROSION. The process of the gradual wearing away of land masses by wind,
water, or other natural agents.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as “existing structures.”
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXISTING STRUCTURES. See “existing construction.”
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL. The placement of materials, such as dirt, sand, or rock to elevate a
structure, property, or portion of a property above the natural elevation of
the site, regardless of where the material was obtained from. The common
practice of removing unsuitable material and replacing with engineered material
is not considered fill if the elevations are returned to the existing
conditions. Any fill placed or used prior to the area being mapped as a flood
hazard area is not deemed as fill.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. Means:
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
      (2)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) that are proximately caused by flooding
as defined in this chapter and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on
the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current
of water and deposited along the path of the current.
      (3)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding, as defined herein.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard areas (SFHAs) and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS) or FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination,
evaluation, and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
corresponding water surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation, and
determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A community issued permit or document that is
used for any development that occurs within an SFHA identified by FEMA or the
community. It is used to address the proposed development to ensure compliance
with the community's ordinance.
   FLOOD OPENING. An opening in the wall of an enclosed structure that allows
floodwaters to automatically enter and exit the enclosure. Refer to FEMA
Technical Bulletin 1.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Physical structural works for which funds have been
authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a special flood hazard area (SFHZ) and to reduce
the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane
tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized flood-
modifying works are constructed in conformance with sound engineering
standards.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of “flooding”).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion-control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents. FLOODPROOFING can either be accomplished in the
form of dry FLOODPROOFING in which the structure is watertight below the levels
that need flood protection, or wet FLOODPROOFING in permanent or contingent
measures applied to a structure that prevent or provide resistance to damage
from flooding, while allowing floodwaters to enter the structure or area.
   FLOODWAY. See “regulatory floodway.”
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT. The lines marking the limits of floodways on federal,
state, and local floodplain maps.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of
the watershed. The State of Utah adopted the most recent IBC and ASCE 24
standard "Flood Resistant Design and Construction" which established a
FREEBOARD standard of one foot and the city thereby adopts.
   FUNCTIONALLY-DEPENDENT USE. A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. In AO Zones,
the HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE is utilized by comparing the lowest floor elevation
to that of the HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE and the depth of the AO Zone. Reference:
Article V, Section D, “Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones).”
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   IBC. International Building Code, most recent edition.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter, to an
effective FIRM. A LOMA establishes a property's location in relation to the
SFHA. It is usually issued because a property or structure has been
inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain when the property or structure
is actually on natural high ground above the BFE.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). FEMA's modification or revision to an entire
or portion of the effective FIRM, or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, or both.
LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective BFEs, or the SFHA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). FEMA's amendment, by letter,
to an effective FIRM where fill was brought in or used to elevate a property,
portion of property or structure above the BFE.
   LEVEE. A-man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. For an
existing structure, it means the lowest point where the structure and ground
touch, including but not limited to attached garages, decks, stairs, and
basement windows.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for the
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations, being 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. MANUFACTURED
HOME does not include a recreational vehicle; however, a MANUFACTURED HOME may
be used for both residential and non-residential use.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The FHBM or the FIRM for a community issued by FEMA.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP),
the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical
Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88), or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown
on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
the purposes of determining insurance rates, structures for the start of
construction commenced on or after the effective date of an initial FIRM or
after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or
SUBDIVISION for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NO-RISE CERTIFICATIONS. Formal certifications signed and stamped by a
professional engineer licensed to practice in the state, demonstrating through
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard
engineering practice that a proposed development will not result in any
increase (zero feet) in flood levels within the community during the occurrence
of a base flood event.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). FEMA's action whereby one or more map panels
are physically revised and republished.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily, not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, creek, etc., which can be intermittent or
perennial.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which provides for the denial of flood insurance coverage for any
property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly constituted
state or local authority to be in violation of state or local floodplain
management regulations. SECTION 1316 is issued for a property, not a property
owner, and remains with the property even after a change of ownership.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). See “area of special flood hazard.”
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501
et seq.) Includes substantial improvement and means the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basements, footings, piers, or foundations, or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE.
      (1)   For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a culvert, bridge, dam, or a gas or liquid storage tank, that is
principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
      (2)   For insurance purposes:
         (a)   A building with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully
secured roof, which is affixed to a permanent site;
         (b)   A manufactured home ("a manufactured home," also known as a
mobile home, is a structure built on a permanent chassis, transported to its
site in one or more sections, and affixed to a permanent foundation); or
         (c)   A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed
to a permanent foundation, that is regulated under the community's floodplain
management and building ordinances or laws.
      (3)   For insurance purposes, STRUCTURE does not mean a recreational
vehicle or a park trailer or other similar vehicle, except as described in
division (2)(c) above or a gas or liquid storage tank.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This includes structures that have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the community from the requirements of a
floodplain management regulation.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required with the National Flood Insurance
Program regulations in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(S), (c)(4), (c)(l0), (d)(3), (e)(2),
(e)(4), or (e)(S) is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88), of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies, such as the 1% annual chance flood event, in the floodplains of
coastal or riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. The channel and banks of an identifiable water in a creek,
brook, stream, river, ditch, or other similar feature.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.020) (Ord. 16-2005, passed 11-16-2005; Ord. 22-2023,
passed 11-1-2023)
§ 154.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard (SFHAs) identified by FEMA and areas of
identified and documented flood risk supported using best available data within
the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard.
      (1)   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled
"The Flood Insurance Study for West Haven City, Weber County, State of Utah,"
with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Boundary Floodway Maps
(FIRM and FBFM), dated November 30, 2023, and any revisions thereto are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
      (2)   Where base level engineering is available, base level engineering
data shall be reviewed and reasonably used in FEMA-identified special flood
hazard areas where base flood elevation and floodway data have not been
identified and in areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard
areas.
         (a)   Base flood elevations, floodway, and floodplain boundaries
delineated by base level engineering shall take precedence over base flood
elevations, floodway, and floodplain boundaries delineated by effective FIRMs
and in flood insurance studies (FIS) if the base level engineering shows
increased floodplain or floodway boundaries and/or higher base flood
elevations.
         (b)   Base flood elevations and designated floodway boundaries on
effective FIRMs and in flood insurance studies shall take precedence over base
flood elevation and floodway boundaries delineated by base level engineering if
the FIRMs and/or flood insurance studies show reduced floodway width and/or
lower base flood elevations.
   (C)   Establishment of development permit. A development permit shall be
required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (E)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (F)   Warning and disclaimer or liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions,
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by human-
made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas
of special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter, or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
   (G)   Compliance. No structures or developments including buildings,
recreation vehicles, or manufactured homes or land shall hereafter be located,
altered, or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations. Nothing herein shall prevent the
community or governing body from taking such lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violations.
   (H)   Stop work order.
      (1)   Authority. Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other community
official discovers any work or activity regulated by this chapter being
performed in a manner contrary to the provision of this chapter, the Floodplain
Administrator is authorized to issue a stop work order.
      (2)   Issuance. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be
given to the owner of the property involved, or to the owner's agent, or to the
person doing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall
immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order,
and the conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to resume.
      (3)   Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject
to penalties as prescribed by local or state law including but not limited to
the penalties outlined in §
154.03(I).
   (I)   Penalties for noncompliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be
constructed, located, extended, converted, or altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Violation of
the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of its
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a Class B misdemeanor. Any person
who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall
upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not
more than six months, or both, for each violation assessed daily, and in
addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.030) (Ord. 16-2005, passed 11-16-2005; Ord. 22-2023,
passed 11-1-2023)
§ 154.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator. The City Engineer is
hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter and other appropriate sections of 44 C.F.R.
(National Flood Insurance Program regulations) pertaining to floodplain
management.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. Duties
and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Uphold the goals of the community and the NFIP to reduce risk when
possible and increase the community's resistance to future disasters.
      (2)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter, including the actual elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement or crawlspace) of all new or substantially improved
structures and any floodproofing certificates, including the data supporting
such certificates.
      (3)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection maps that identify and
locate the boundaries of the SFHAs to which this chapter applies, including,
but not limited to, the FIRM.
      (4)   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed
building site, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      (5)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
      (6)   Ensure that all necessary permits have been obtained from those
federal, state, or local governmental agencies (including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334 and the
Endangered Species Act of 1973) from which prior approval is required.
      (7)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained. The applicant shall be
responsible for providing the necessary maintenance for the altered or
relocated portion of the water course so that the flood carrying capacity will
not be diminished.
      (8)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency which is prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notification to FEMA.
      (9)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation.
      (10)   When BFE data has not been provided by FEMA, the Floodplain
Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data and
floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source including data
provided by the applicant, in order to administer the provisions of this
chapter.
      (11)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, no new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development (including fill)
shall be permitted within Zones A1-30, AE, and AH on the community's FIRM,
unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one
foot at any point within the community.
      (12)   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, § 65.12 of the NFIP
Regulations, a community may approve certain development in Zones A1-30, AE,
and AH on the community's FIRM, which increases the water surface elevation of
the base flood by more than one foot, provided that the community first meets
the requirements of § 65.12 of the NFIP Regulations for a conditional FIRM
revision through FEMA's CLOMR process.
   (C)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   The property owner or developer shall notify FEMA by submittal of a
LOMR within six months of project completion when an applicant has obtained a
CLOMR from FEMA or when development altered a watercourse, modified floodplain
boundaries, or modified BFE.
      (2)   The property owner or developer shall be responsible for preparing
technical data to support the CLOMR or LOMR application and paying any
processing or application fees to FEMA. The property owner or developer is
responsible for submitting the CLOMR and LOMR to FEMA and shall provide all
necessary data to FEMA if requested during the review process to ensure the
CLOMR or LOMR is issued.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign
the Community Acknowledgment Form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application,
until the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met the
requirements of this chapter and all applicable state federal, and local laws.
   (D)   Permit procedures. Application for a development permit shall be
presented to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and
may include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions,
and elevation of proposed landscape alterations.
      (2)   Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions,
and elevation of existing and proposed structures, including the placement of
manufactured homes.
      (3)   Location of the foregoing in relation to SFHAs.
      (4)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement and crawlspace) of all new and substantially improved
structures, if applicable;
      (5)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), to which any
nonresidential structure (if applicable) shall be floodproofed.
      (6)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure (if applicable) shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of this chapter and the NFIP Regulations.
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated because of proposed development, if
applicable.
      (8)   At the community's discretion, the community may charge a fee for
issuance of floodplain development permits.
      (9)   Copies of all floodplain development permits and the associated
documents shall become property of the community and a permanent record.
   (E)   Approval, denial of permit. Approval or denial of a development permit
by the Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage, and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters, and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
   (F)   Variance procedures.
      (1)   The Appeal Board or Variance Board, as established by the
community, shall hear and render judgment on requests for variances from the
requirements of this chapter after a floodplain development permit has been
denied.
      (2)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      (3)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
      (4)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
      (5)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of 1/2 acre or less in size contiguous to
and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood elevation, providing the relevant factors in this §
154.04(F) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the 1/
2 acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
      (6)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
      (7)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter.
      (8)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (9)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure, and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure. The term “substantial
improvement” does not include any alteration of a structure or facility listed
on the National Register of Historic Places or a state inventory of historic
places.
      (10)   Prerequisites for granting variances are:
         (a)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, conflict with existing local laws or ordinances, considers the
need of ingress and egress during times of floods, and does not jeopardize
first responders' health and welfare.
         (c)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation (BFE), and that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (11)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements, and for other development necessary for the conduct
of a functionally dependent use, provided that:
         (a)   The criteria outlined in §
154.04(F) above are met; and
         (b)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.040) (Ord. 16-2005, passed 11-16-2005; Ord. 22-2023,
passed 11-1-2023)
§ 154.05 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all areas of special flood hazards, the
following provisions are required for all new construction and substantial
improvements:
      (1)   Design. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   Minimize flood damage. All new construction or substantial
improvements shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage;
      (3)   Resistant to flood damage. All new construction or substantial
improvements shall be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (4)   Service facilities. All new construction or substantial
improvements shall be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding;
      (5)   Water supply systems. All new and replacement water supply systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
system;
      (6)   Infiltration of floodwaters. New and replacement sanitary sewage
systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
      (7)   Waste disposal systems. On-site waste disposal systems shall be
located to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (B)   Substantial improvement. Any combination of repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of a building or structure, if the
cumulative cost of the entire project equals or exceeds 50%, unless a higher
standard option is selected below, of the market value of the structure only
(not of the structure and land value combined) before the improvement or repair
is started then the work shall be considered as substantial improvement. If the
structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered
substantial improvements regardless of the actual repair work performed. For
substantial damage, refer to §
154.05(C). The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the Building
Official and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions;
or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   (C)   Substantial damage. Substantial damage means damage of any origin
sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its
pre-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure only, unless a higher standard option is selected, before the damage
occurred. This term also applies to structures which have incurred any damage
that equals or exceeds 50% of the structure's market value regardless of the
actual repair work performed. When a structure or building has been determined
as substantially damaged, any work or repair on said structure or building will
be considered as substantial improvement and will be required to meet the
development requirements set forth within this chapter for substantial
improvement.
   (D)    Substantial improvement and substantial damage determination. For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, and any other improvement
of or work on such buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in
coordination with the applicable community officials and staff, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure only, not of land and building, before the start of
construction of the proposed work. In the case of repair, the market value of
the building or structure shall be the market value before the damage occurred
and before any repairs are made.
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure.
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in §
154.05(B).
      (4)   If elected, utilize FEMA's Substantial Improvement/Substantial Desk
Reference when making any determination on substantial improvement and/or
substantial damage.
      (5)   The substantial improvement regulations apply to all of the work
that is proposed as the improvement, even if multiple permits are issued.
Therefore, the determination of the cost of the improvement should consider all
costs of all phases of the work before issuance of the first permit.
      (6)   Notify the applicant that if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood, this chapter is required.
   (E)   Specific standards. In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in this chapter, the
following provisions are required:
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated to one foot above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this chapter are
satisfied.
      (2)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to one foot
above the base flood elevation, or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level, the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural
design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall certify that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice as outlined in this section. A record of such
certification that includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the
Floodplain Administrator. If the use or occupancy of the building changes in
the future to residential, then the dry floodproofing of the structure cannot
be used when determining compliance of the structure to the residential
construction of §
154.05(E)(1). As such, the building will not be grandfathered into compliance
and will be required to be brought into compliance with the residential
construction requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are to be used solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement, and are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect, or must meet or
exceed the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. The development and construction of the structure must conform
with the provision in FEMA/Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) Technical
Bulletins 1 and 2. Certification and documentation from a professional,
licensed engineer or architect is required if the structure's lowest floor is
built below the BFE.
      (4)   Crawlspace. New construction and substantial improvements built on
a crawlspace or sub-grade (below grade) crawlspace may be permitted if the
development is designed and meets or exceeds the standards found in FEMA's
Technical Bulletins 1, 2, and 11, which include but are not limited to the
following:
         (a)   The structure must be affixed to a permanent foundation,
designed and adequately anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy. Because of hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace
construction is not allowed in areas with flood velocities greater than five
feet per second unless the design is reviewed by a qualified design
professional, such as a registered architect or professional engineer.
         (b)   The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such,
must have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. The bottom of each flood vent opening
can be no more than one foot above the LAG.
         (c)   The crawlspace enclosure must have proper openings that allow
equalization of hydrostatic pressure by allowing automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. To achieve this, a minimum of one square inch of flood opening is
required per one square foot of the enclosed area subject to flooding.
         (d)   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation, piers, or other materials that extend below the BFE. Ductwork, in
particular, must either be placed above the BFE or sealed from floodwaters.
         (e)   Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be
elevated above the BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or
accumulate within the system components during flood conditions.
         (f)   The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be
more than two feet below the LAG.
         (g)   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the
lowest interior grade of the crawlspace floor to the bottom of the floor joist
of the next higher floor cannot exceed four feet at any point.
         (h)   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should
be drained within a reasonable time after a flood event.
         (i)   Buildings with below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood
insurance premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace
construction, with the interior elevation at or above the LAG.
      (5)   Manufactured homes. All manufactured homes shall conform to the
following requirements:
         (a)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A
on a community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices
which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured
homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         (b)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved FIRM on sites:
            1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   On a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the BFE, unless a higher standard
option was selected, and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (c)   A1-30, AH, AO, and AE Zones, require that manufactured homes to
be placed or substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park to be
elevated so that:
            1.   The lowest floor is at or above the BFE plus freeboard of one
foot; or
            2.   The chassis is supported by reinforced piers no less than 36
inches in height above grade and securely anchored.
      (6)   Recreational vehicles. In all areas of special flood hazard,
recreational vehicles, must either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and have no permanently attached structures or addition;
or
         (c)   The recreational vehicle must meet all the requirements for §
154.04(D), including the anchoring and elevation requirements of manufactured
homes of this chapter.
   (F)   Standards for subdivision proposals.
      (1)   Development permit requirements. All proposals for the development
of subdivisions, including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, shall meet development permit requirements of this chapter to
minimize flood damage.
      (2)   All subdivision preliminary plats/development plans shall include
the mapped flood hazard zones from the effective FIRM.
      (3)   Base flood elevation. Base flood elevation data shall be generated
for subdivision proposals and other proposed developments, including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, which is greater than 50
lots or five acres, whichever is lesser.
      (4)   Adequate drainage. All subdivision proposals, including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall have adequate
drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (5)   Public utilities and facilities. All subdivision proposals,
including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
   (G)   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO/AH Zones). Located within
the SFHAs established in §
154.03 et seq. are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow. Therefore, the following provisions
apply:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community's FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified)
plus the free board height of one foot.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community's FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified)
plus the free board height of one foot; or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
designed so that below the base flood elevation the structure is watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads of effects of buoyancy.
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section are satisfied.
      (4)   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (H)   Floodways. Floodways located within SFHAs are extremely hazardous
areas due to the velocity of floodwaters that carry debris, potential
projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply:
      (1)   Designate a regulatory floodway that will not increase the base
flood elevation more than one foot.
      (2)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase greater than zero feet,
unless higher standard option is selected, in flood levels within the community
during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, § 65.12, of the NFIP
Regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory
floodway that would result in an increase in BFEs, provided that the community
first applies for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision through FEMA.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.050) (Ord. 16-2005, passed 11-16-2005; Ord. 22-2023,
passed 11-1-2023)
CHAPTER 155: STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   General
   
155.002   Definitions
Stormwater Drainage Regulations
   
155.015   Prohibited obstructions
   
155.016   Prohibited discharges
   
155.017   Best management practices
   
155.018   Damage to storm sewer system or irrigation lines
   
155.019   Drinking water protection
   
155.020   Compliance with federal and state law
Stormwater Permit
   
155.040   Stormwater construction activity permit
   
155.041   Inspection and entry
   
155.042   Long-term maintenance agreement
   
155.043   Stormwater facilities ownership, operation, and maintenance
Impact Fee
   
155.075   Stormwater impact fee service area established
   
155.076   Stormwater impact fee enacted
   
155.077   Adjustment of standard impact fee
   
155.078   Impact fee credits
   
155.079   Fee schedule
Enforcement
   
155.090   Authority to inspect
   
155.091   Enforcement/notice of violation
   
155.092   Stop work order
   
155.093   Appeal
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 GENERAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Protect, maintain, and enhance the environment of West Haven City;
      (2)   Establish responsibilities for controlling and managing stormwater
runoff;
      (3)   Protect the public health, safety and the general welfare of the
citizens of the city by controlling discharges of pollutants to the city's
stormwater system and to maintain and improve the quality of the receiving
waters into which the stormwater outfalls flow, including, without limitation,
lakes, rivers, streams, ponds, wetlands, and groundwater of the city and state;
      (4)   Enable the city to comply with the National and Utah Pollution
Discharge Elimination System permits (NPDES/UPDES) and applicable regulations
in 40 CFR § 122.26 for stormwater discharges;
      (5)   Allow the city to exercise the powers granted by Utah State Code,
which provides that, among other powers municipalities have with respect to
stormwater facilities, the city may:
         (a)   Regulate construction projects disturbing one acre or more and
construction projects that are part of a larger common plan of development or
sale which collectively disturbs land greater than or equal to one acre in
accordance with the city's MS4 permit and state regulations and requirements;
         (b)   Regulate construction projects that disturb less than one acre
or are not part of a common plan of development as permitted by the state;
         (c)   Exercise general regulation over the planning, location,
construction, and operation and maintenance of stormwater facilities in the
municipality, whether or not owned and operated by the municipality;
         (d)   Adopt any rules and regulations deemed necessary to accomplish
the purposes of this statute, including the adoption of a system of fees for
services and permits;
         (e)   Establish standards to regulate the quantity of stormwater
discharged and to regulate stormwater contaminants as may be necessary to
protect water quality;
         (f)   Review and approve plans and plats for stormwater management in
proposed subdivisions or commercial developments, and other projects whether
public or private;
         (g)   Authorize stop work orders when it is determined that the
permittee has violated any applicable section of this chapter, or condition of
the permit; and
         (h)   Regulate and prohibit discharges into stormwater facilities of
sanitary, industrial, or commercial sewage or waters that have otherwise been
contaminated.
   (B)   The City Engineer or his/her designee are authorized to administer,
implement, interpret and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 155.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). A wide range of management procedures,
schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and
other management practices which have been demonstrated to effectively control
the quality and/or quantity of stormwater runoff and which are compatible with
the planned land use. BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating
procedures, and practices to control site runoff, spillage, or leaks, sludge,
or water disposal, or drainage from raw material storage. Example BMPs and
their effectiveness ratings can be found in the City Stormwater Management Plan
dated March 2021, or the most recent update approved by the City Council.
   BUSINESS DAYS. A day other than Friday, Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday
as based on the current designated hours of operation for West Haven City as
determined by the City Council.
   CATCH BASIN. A drain inlet designed to keep out large or obstructive matter.
   CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer appointed by the City Council or his/her
duly appointed deputy, agent, or representative.
   COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A plan to subdivide a parcel of land
into separate parts for separate sale. This can be for residential, commercial,
or industrial development. The plan originates as a single parcel that is
separated into parts. This usually goes through an approval process by a local
governmental unit, but in some cases, it may not require that process. The
original plan is considered the COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE, whether
phased or completed in steps. Additional information related to COMMON PLAN OF
DEVELOPMENT for permit purposes: For UPDES stormwater permit purposes, a common
plan must have been initiated after October 1992. A COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT
OR SALE remains so until each lot or section of the development has fulfilled
its planned purpose (for example, in a residential development as homes are
completed, stabilized, and sold or occupied). As lots or separated sections of
the development are completed, the lot or section is stabilized, and as the
plan purposes are fulfilled for that area, lot, or section, it is no longer
part of the COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE (for example, if a home is sold
in a development and the owner decides to add a garage somewhere on the lot,
that garage project is not part of the common plan of development or sale). In
this process, a COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OF SALE may become reduced in size
and/or separated by completed areas which are no longer part of the common plan
of development or sale, but all unfinished lots remain part of the same common
plan of development or sale until they are completed, stabilized, and fulfilled
according to the purpose of the plan.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including, but not limited to, site preparation, excavation, grubbing,
clearing, filling, grading, paving, excavation, and construction of buildings
or other structures that will disrupt or cause a change in the natural
landscape on a public or private property within the city.
   CORRECTIVE ACTION. Directive that a stormwater control needs a significant
repair or a new or replacement control is needed and is not routine
maintenance.
   DEBRIS. Any dirt, rock, sand, vegetation, rubbish, or litter.
   DETENTION BASIN. A depression designed to detain stormwater runoff until
downstream storm sewer resources are less heavily taxed. A DETENTION BASIN
contains an inlet and an outlet, allows debris to settle out, and regulates
water flow. A DETENTION BASIN may be either publicly or privately owned,
operated, and maintained.
   DEVELOPMENT (MAJOR). Any construction project that will disturb greater than
or equal to one acre or construction projects that are part of a larger common
plan of development or sale and/or require the removal or import of less than
20 cubic yards of material to a developed or undeveloped site regardless of
other construction. This may also include the installation, modification,
alteration, or any new connection to the stormwater system (public or private).
   DEVELOPMENT (MINOR). Any construction project that will disturb land surface
area more than 500 square feet and less than one acre and/or require the
removal or import of less than 20 cubic yards of material to a developed or
undeveloped site regardless of other construction. This may also include the
installation, modification, alteration or any new connection to the stormwater
system (public or private).
   DEVELOPMENT (NEW). Land development activity on a previously undeveloped
site.
   DISCHARGE. Dispose, deposit, spill, pour, inject, seep, dump, leak, or place
by any means, or that which is disposed, deposited, spilled, poured, injected,
seeped, dumped, leaked, or placed by any means, including any direct or
indirect entry of any solid or liquid matter into the municipal separate
stormwater system. A DISCHARGE can occur with or without precipitation.
   DISTURB. To alter the physical condition, natural terrain, or vegetation of
land by clearing, grubbing, grading, excavating, filling, building, or other
construction activity.
   DRAIN INLET. A point of entry into a sump, detention basin, or storm drain
system.
   EXCEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES. Circumstances that include, but are not limited
to, situations which involve a risk of injury to persons, damage to storm drain
facilities, or damage to other property or the environment.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which, because of its quantity, concentration, or
physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics, may cause, or significantly
contribute to, a substantial presence or potential hazard to human health,
safety, property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored,
transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed. HAZARDOUS MATERIAL includes,
but is not limited to, any hazardous substance designated under 40 C.F.R. part
116 pursuant to § 311 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1321.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Illegal and/or unauthorized connections to the
municipal separate stormwater system, whether or not such connections result in
discharges into that system. These also include any drain or conveyance
connected to or discharging to the storm drain system, which has not been:
      (1)   Documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records submitted to the
city; and
      (2)   Permitted or otherwise authorized by the city.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE.
      (1)   Any non-stormwater discharge of pollutants to the municipal
separate stormwater system or WATERS OF THE STATE. ILLICIT DISCHARGES includes
both direct discharges and indirect discharges that occur due to deliberate or
inadvertent actions. Examples include, but are not limited to, any conveyances
which allow non-stormwater discharge such as sewage, process wastewater, or
wash water to enter the storm drain system, and any discharges to the storm
drain system from indoor drains or sinks, regardless of whether said drain or
discharge had been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by a government
agency; or discharge directly to any collection or conveyance structures or
appurtenances.
      (2)   A discharge of pollutants into the stormwater system or WATERS OF
THE STATE resulting from direct or indirect stormwater or non-stormwater
runoff.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT. Any development of a parcel, lot, subdivision plat, or
site plan. If there is more than one lot in the subdivision plat or site plan,
all lots in the subdivision plat or site plan shall jointly be considered to be
part of the LAND DEVELOPMENT.
   LONG-TERM MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT. A document recorded in the land records
that acts as a property deed restriction, and which provides for long-term
maintenance of stormwater management practices.
   LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT (LID). An approach to land development (or re-
development) that works with nature to more closely mimic pre-development
hydrologic functions. LID employs principles, such as preserving and recreating
natural landscape features, and minimizing effective imperviousness to create
functional and appealing site drainage, that treat stormwater as a resource
rather than a waste product. There are many practices that have been used to
adhere to these principles, such as bio retention facilities, rain gardens,
vegetated rooftops, rain barrels, and permeable pavements. LID must comply with
the requirements in the city stormwater management plan dated March 2021, or
the date of the most recent update approved by the City Council, which is
incorporated herein by reference.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). The system of stormwater
collection and conveyance structures and appurtenances (such as catch basins,
detention/retention basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, human-made channels,
sumps, storm drains, and groundwater) owned and operated by the city. A MS4 is
regulated under the State of Utah General Permit for Discharges from Small
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems (MS4s) UPDES PERMIT NUMBER UTR090000.
   NON-STORMWATER RUNOFF. Any overland flow generated from any water source
other than stormwater.
   PERMITTEE. Any person issued an approved stormwater construction activity
permit in accordance with this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, company,
private or public utility or infrastructure provider or body politic, including
any agency of the state, county, and the United States government.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid wastes, sewage, garbage, munitions, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, pesticides, herbicides,
fertilizers, sewage, dissolved and particulate metals, animal wastes, wastes
and residue that results from construction, rocks, sand, cellar dirt,
industrial, municipal and agricultural wastes, paints, varnishes, and solvents,
oil and other automotive fluids, nonhazardous liquid, and refuse, garbage,
litter, floatables, lawn clippings, leaves, branches, plant material, or other
discarded or abandoned objects, articles, and accumulations that may
contaminate otherwise clean water, cause or contribute to pollution.
   PUBLIC WAY. All public rights-of-way and easements, public footpaths,
walkways and sidewalks, public streets, public roads, public highways, public
alleys, and public drainage ways.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Alterations of a property that change the footprint of a site
or building in such a way that disturbs one-tenth of an acre of land or more.
   RETENTION BASIN. A depression designed to hold stormwater runoff that will
drain to the underlying soil and does not have any outlet. A RETENTION BASIN
may be either publicly or privately owned, operated, and maintained.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Minor repairs or other upkeep performed to ensure the
site's stormwater controls remain in effective operating condition, not
including significant repairs or the need to install a new or replacement
control.
   STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveyance of collected stormwater.
   STORM SEWER SYSTEM (PRIVATE). The system of stormwater collection and
conveyance structures and appurtenances (such as catch basins, detention/
retention basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, human-made channels, sumps, storm
drains, and groundwater) owned, operated, and maintained by non-municipal
entities, including HOAs. Aspects of a private storm sewer system may be
operated and maintained by the city.
   STORM SEWER SYSTEM (PUBLIC). The system of stormwater collection and
conveyance structures and appurtenances (such as catch basins, detention/
retention basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, human-made channels, sumps, storm
drains, and groundwater) owned and operated by the city. Aspects of a public
storm sewer system may be operated and maintained by a non-municipal entity.
See also MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORMWATER SYSTEM (MS4).
   STORMWATER. Any flow that occurs during or following any form of natural
precipitation. STORMWATER includes only the portion of such flow that is
composed of precipitation.
   STORMWATER CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY PERMIT (MAJOR). City permit required before
any person or entity may excavate, grub and clear, grade, or perform any major
development.
   STORMWATER CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY PERMIT (MINOR). City permit required before
any person or entity may excavate, grub and clear, grade, or perform any minor
development.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. A plan developed by the city that serves as the
implementation requirements for city compliance with its obligations and
responsibilities under the MS4 permit and provide guidance and standards for
construction projects regulated under the city's MS4 permit as well as certain
construction projects that disturb less than one acre regulated under this
chapter. The SWMP is adopted by reference under this chapter and may be updated
from time to time. The most recent version of the SWMP adopted by the City
Council shall control.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. Any overland flow that occurs by or from natural
precipitation, including snow melt.
   SUMP. An underground structure, surrounded by drain rock, that is designed
to retain water to allow the slow release into the surrounding subsoil.
   SURFACE WATER. All open water bodies, streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
wetlands, watercourses, waterways, springs, drainage systems, and all other
bodies or accumulations of water on the surface only and can be designated as
WATERS OF THE STATE.
   SWPPP (STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN). A site-specific, written
document that:
      (1)   Identifies potential sources of stormwater pollution at the
construction site;
      (2)   Describes practices to reduce pollutants in stormwater discharges
from the construction site and to maintain pre-development runoff quantity; and
      (3)   Identifies procedures the operator will implement to comply with
the terms and conditions of a construction general permit or stormwater
construction activity permit.
   UTAH POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (UPDES). The state's program for
issuing, modifying, revoking and reissuing, terminating, monitoring, and
enforcing permits, and for imposing and enforcing pretreatment requirements,
under §§ 307, 102, 318, and 405 of the Clean Water Act (CWA), being 33 U.S.C.
§§ 1317, 1252, 1328, and 1345, respectively, for the discharge of pollutants to
waters of the state. This program is specifically designed to be compatible
with the federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
program established and administered by the EPA.
   WATERS OF THE STATE (UCA TITLE 19 CHAPTER 5 SECTION 102). All streams,
lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, irrigation
systems, drainage systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water,
surface and underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are
contained within, flow through, or border upon this state or any portion
thereof, except that bodies of water confined to and retained within the limits
of private property, and which do not develop into or constitute a nuisance, or
a public health hazard, or a menace to fish and wildlife, shall not be
considered to be "waters of the state" under this definition.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
STORMWATER DRAINAGE REGULATIONS
§ 155.015 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Obstruct the flow of water in the storm sewer system;
      (2)   Contribute to the obstruction of the flow of water in the storm
sewer system; or
      (3)   Cover or obstruct any drain inlet.
   (B)   The city may direct any person who installs, owns, or maintains
facilities or structures or obstruction within the city right-of-way or any
public drainage or public utility easement that impede the free flow of
stormwater and/or creates flooding or impoundment within the right-of-way or
other public or private property to remove such obstructions. Such actions are
subject to notices of violation and stop work orders in accordance with §§
155.091 and 155.092.
   (C)   The following obstructions are exempt from the prohibitions of this
section:
      (1)   Street and/or storm sewer improvement projects authorized by the
city;
      (2)   Flood control and prevention activities performed by the city;
      (3)   Obstructions approved by the city as part of a site's stormwater
drainage plan; and
      (4)   Obstructions occurring during cleanup periods established by the
city; provided that the materials are placed according to city directions and
do not obstruct drain inlets.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.016 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to cause or allow an illicit discharge,
as defined in §
155.002 to the city storm sewer system or waters of the state. Illicit
discharges include, but are not limited, to the additional following specific
actions:
      (1)   Wastewater from washout of concrete, unless managed by an
appropriate control;
      (2)   Wastewater from washout and cleanout of stucco, paint, form release
oils, curing compounds and other construction materials;
      (3)   Fuels, oils, or other pollutants used in vehicle and equipment
operation and maintenance; and
      (4)   Soaps or solvents are used in vehicle and equipment washing.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain, store, keep, deposit, or
leave any pollutant or hazardous material, or any item containing a pollutant
or hazardous material, in a manner that is likely to result in the discharge of
the pollutant or hazardous material to the storm sewer system as a result of a
precipitation event, including snowmelt or non-stormwater runoff.
   (C)   The following discharges to the storm sewer system are exempt from the
prohibitions of this section:
      (1)   Discharges regulated under a valid UPDES storm discharge permit,
provided that the discharge complies with the terms of the permit;
      (2)   Water line flushing;
      (3)   Landscape irrigation;
      (4)   Diverted stream flows;
      (5)   Rising groundwaters;
      (6)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
      (7)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
      (8)   Discharges from potable water sources;
      (9)   Uncontaminated water from foundation/footing, land and yard drains;
      (10)   Air conditioning condensate;
      (11)   Uncontaminated irrigation water, including uncontaminated lawn-
watering runoff;
      (12)   Individual residential car washing, provided there is no discharge
of soaps, solvents, or other substances used for such purposes;
      (13)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
      (14)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
      (15)   Residual sidewalk, driveway, or street wash water;
      (16)   Dechlorinated water reservoir discharges; and
      (17)   Discharges from emergency firefighting activities.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.017 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   Structural and/or non-structural BMPs that may be applied depending on
the needs of the site are detailed in the City's Stormwater Management Plan
(SWMP), the most recent version adopted by the City Council is incorporated
herein by reference.
   (B)   The BMPs shall be designed to ensure that the quality and quantity of
stormwater released to the city's storm sewer system meets the requirements of
federal, state, and local laws and regulations, the city's MS4 permit, site-
specific approved SWPPP and the state construction general permit and the city
construction activity permit and will not exceed the designed capacity of the
storm sewer system or jeopardize the integrity of the storm sewer system.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 155.018 DAMAGE TO STORM SEWER SYSTEM OR IRRIGATION LINES.
   (A)   Any person who damages any portion of the storm sewer system, a city-
owned irrigation line, or a city-maintained irrigation line shall be
responsible for repairing the damages.
   (B)   Any damages shall be repaired by a licensed contractor bonded to do
work in the city and shall be repaired in accordance with the city's most
recently adopted engineering standards, specifications, and practices.
   (C)   It is unlawful to remove or alter any portion of the storm sewer
system without authorization from the City Engineer.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to open any storm sewer manhole or other storm
sewer fixture (such as grates, lids, or inlets) without permission from the
City Engineer.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.019 DRINKING WATER PROTECTION.
   All stormwater and non-stormwater discharges shall comply with the Weber-
Morgan Health Department's drinking water source protection ordinance.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 155.020 COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL AND STATE LAW.
   Nothing in this chapter should be interpreted to relieve any person from an
obligation to comply with an applicable federal, state, or local law relating
to stormwater discharges or drinking water protection.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
STORMWATER PERMIT
§ 155.040 TORMWATER CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY PERMIT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate certain construction
activities to prevent the discharge of sediment and other construction-related
pollutants.
   (B)   Stormwater construction activity permit, when required.
      (1)   A city stormwater construction activity permit is required before
any person may excavate, grub and clear, grade, export or import soil or
materials, or perform any type of construction activity that will disrupt or
cause a change in the natural landscape upon any of the following types of
property located within the city:
         (a)   A major stormwater construction activity permit is required for:
            1.   Any construction project that will disturb greater than or
equal to one acre or construction projects that are part of a larger common
plan of development or sale;
            2.   Require the import or export of 50 or more cubic yards of soil
to a developed or undeveloped site regardless of other construction;
            3.   The installation, modification, alteration, or any new
connection to the stormwater system (public or private) that meets the
conditions of (B)(1)(a)1. or (B)(1)(a)2.; or
            4.   Any project or activity that must comply with the requirements
of the Utah construction general permit.
         (b)   A minor stormwater construction activity permit is required for:
            1.   Any construction project that will disturb more than 500
square feet of land surface area and less than one acre; or
            2.   Require the import or export of at least 20 and less than 50
or more cubic yards of soil to a developed or undeveloped site regardless of
other construction.
         (c)   The installation, modification, alteration, or any new
connection to the city stormwater system that meets the requirements of (B)(1)
(b)1. or (B)(1)(b)2.
         (d)   Permits for the import and/or export of soil only shall not be
required for:
            1.   The moving of 20 cubic yards or less of soil on any lot within
a 12-month period;
            2.   The moving of soil for the installation of underground utility
lines, provided that all necessary permits have been issued;
            3.   The moving of soil for landscape planting, farming, and
gardening by homeowners, provided it does not substantially alter the drainage
patterns of the lot; or
            4.   Soil movement associated with valid building permits that have
been issued, provided the topography and elevation of the property is not
altered.
         (e)   The City Engineer shall have the discretion that any parcel,
lot, or land development, because of the nature or type of the parcel, lot, or
development, disturbance of the land is likely to result in erosion or the
transport of sediment off of the site by stormwater to a degree substantially
greater than that which would occur under natural landscape conditions.
         (f)   Any permit required under §
155.040(B)(1)(a)2. or §
155.040(B)(1)(b)2. must also comply with the requirements of
Chapter 152.
   (C)   Stormwater construction activity permit, application.
      (1)   Any person desiring a stormwater construction activity permit must
first file an application on forms furnished by the City Engineer.
      (2)   Content. A complete application shall include:
         (a)   An application form that includes information regarding site
ownership; contractor(s) that will conduct construction activities; contact
information for someone that will be available 24 hours a day; and other
relevant information such as nature of work, area to be disturbed, etc.;
         (b)   Submission of plans, specifications, stormwater management plan,
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP), and any items required under the
terms of the State General Stormwater Construction or approved by a City Land
Use Authority, City Engineer, or Building Official; and
         (c)   Remittance of fees.
      (3)   Review of application - completeness.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an initial application submission, the City
Engineer shall have five business days to review the application for
completeness.
            1.   If there are any items that are missing or incomplete based on
the application checklist, the submittal shall be deemed incomplete. The City
Engineer shall notify the applicant in writing detailing deficiencies.
            2.   The City Engineer will have five business days to review any
resubmittal that addresses initial deficiencies.
      (4)   Review of application - technical.
         (a)   The City Engineer shall have five business days or ten business
days to conduct a technical review of a complete application for a minor permit
or major permit, respectively.
         (b)   On or before the technical review period closes, the City
Engineer shall provide to the applicant in writing:
            1.   Approval of permit; or
            2.   Deem the application as technically incomplete and provide
comments and/or additional information requests that in the City Engineer's
discretion and judgment are required to fully evaluate the scope and impact of
the proposed construction activity.
         (c)   The applicant shall provide written responses to the City
Engineer's comments and revisions to any previous submittals or additional
materials as that may be required.
            1.   The City Engineer shall have up to five or ten business days
to conduct a technical review of the applicant's resubmittal for minor permits
or major permits, respectively.
            2.   Once the applicant has addressed all technical deficiencies,
the City Engineer shall approve the permit.
   (D)   Permit term. A stormwater construction activity permit shall be for
six months or for the full period of the construction activity whichever is
later. The permittee shall file for an extension no later than 30 days prior to
the initial permit expiration date. Each renewal will extend the term of the
permit an additional six months.
   (E)   Construction activity permits issued in connection with approved
subdivisions, site plans, or building permits will not be considered complete
and the permit closed until the following:
      (1)   Subdivisions:
         (a)   All construction and landscaping based on the approved
subdivision development plans are completed; and
            1.   The city has accepted all public improvements;
            2.   Individual stormwater construction activity permits have been
issued for each lot in the subdivision not having a final certificate of
occupancy; or
            3.   The site has been revegetated or landscaped in a manner that
eliminates erosion and sediment discharge, or that brings the property back to
its natural state.
      (2)   Site plans:
         (a)   All construction and landscaping based on the approved site plan
are substantially completed; and
         (b)   The site has been revegetated or landscaped in a manner that
eliminates erosion and sediment discharge or brings the property back to its
natural state.
      (3)   Building permits:
         (a)   The building official issues certificate of occupancy to the
structure covered by the building permit; or
         (b)   The site has been revegetated or landscaped in a manner that
eliminates erosion and sediment discharge or brings the property back to its
natural state.
      (4)   Other:
         (a)   For permits issued for projects other than for subdivisions,
site plans or certain building permits, the date that the permittee has
completed all construction activity associated with the permit; and
         (b)   The site has been revegetated or landscaped in a manner that
eliminates erosion and sediment discharge or brings the property back to its
natural state.
   (F)   Stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP).
      (1)   Major stormwater construction activity permits shall require
preparation and submittal of a SWPPP in accordance with the UPDES/CGP/MS4
requirements and the most recent City Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP)
approved by the City Council.
         (a)   The goals and criteria of a SWPPP include:
            1.   Prevent or minimize discharge. The proposed measures and
controls shall be designed to prevent or minimize, to the maximum extent
practicable, the discharge of sediment, debris, and other construction-related
pollutants from the construction site by stormwater runoff into the storm
drainage system.
            2.   Prevent or minimize construction debris. The proposed measures
and controls shall be designed to prevent or minimize, to the maximum extent
practicable, the deposit, discharge, tracking by construction vehicles, or
dropping of mud, sediment, debris, or other potential pollutants onto public
streets and rights-of-way. Any such discharge shall be cleaned up and removed
immediately upon notification to the permittee or when it otherwise comes to
the attention of the permittee. At a minimum, the deposit or discharge shall be
cleaned by sweeping and removed within four hours or the end of the work shift
in which the deposit occurred, or at the end of the workday, whichever comes
first.
            3.   Stabilization. Appropriate measures and controls shall be
designed to preserve existing vegetation, where possible, after construction
activities are concluded. All disturbed portions of the site shall be
stabilized. Stabilization practices shall be as described in the SWMP or as
otherwise approved by the City Engineer. Use of impervious surfaces for
stabilization should be avoided. Stabilization measures shall be initiated as
soon as practicable in disturbed portions of the site where construction
activities have temporarily or permanently ceased, but in no case more than 14
days after the construction activity in that portion of the site has
temporarily or permanently ceased, unless:
               a.   Implementation of stabilization measures is precluded by
snow cover or frozen ground conditions, after which stabilization measures
shall be initiated as soon as practicable.
               b.   If construction activity on a portion of the site is
temporarily ceased, the City Engineer may require temporary stabilization
measures be required for that portion of the site so there is no potential for
precipitation induced runoff to discharge sediment or other materials to any
water course, onto a public street, into the city storm sewer system or onto an
adjacent property.
            4.   Minimize risk of discharge of other materials. The proposed
measures and controls shall be employed to minimize the risk of discharge of
construction-related pollutants (such as paint thinners, solvents, and other
chemicals) from the construction site as well as any other material that shall
be specifically stated in the CGP or in regulations. Such measures may include
implementation of storage practices to minimize exposure of the material to
stormwater as well as spill prevention and response.
         (b)   Plan contents. The SWPPP shall contain but is not limited to:
            1.   General physical description of the site, location,
topographical features, including a map with spot elevations and contour lines;
            2.   A description of the nature and location of the construction
activity, a description of the intended sequence of major activities which will
disturb soils for major portions of the site (for example, grubbing,
excavation, grading, utilities, infrastructure installation, etc.), and
estimates of the total area of the site and the total area of the site that is
expected to be disturbed by excavation, grading, or other activities;
            3.   Stormwater management. Description and details of proposed
stormwater measures and controls (BMPs) that will be implemented during
construction activity and/or while the site is not stabilized against erosion.
The plan must clearly describe the times during the construction process that
the measures will be implemented for each major activity, and schedule for
maintenance and self-inspections; and
            4.   Traffic control plan and/or designation of soil movement
routes within the city if required by the City Engineer.
      (2)   Minor stormwater construction activity permits do not require a
SWPPP as outlined in (D)(1)(b) of this section.
         (a)   The permittee will be required to ensure that minimum BMPs are
installed and operational, as applicable, prior to the initiation of any
construction activities to address:
            1.   Construction track out;
            2.   Silt fencing or barrier for stockpiled materials;
            3.   Staking for temporary portable bathroom facilities;
            4.   Concrete washout; and
            5.   The City Engineer may require other applicable BMPs based on
the complexity and duration of the project.
         (b)   The permittee is responsible to maintain or cause to be
maintained such required BMPs for the duration of the project.
         (c)   The city will conduct one pre-construction inspection to verify
if the required BMPs have been installed and are operational. A final
inspection will be required once construction is completed, and the permit is
closed out.
      (3)   Major permits limited just to the import or export of more than 50
cubic yards of soils are subject to additional requirements, which are:
         (a)   The purpose or reason for the moving of soil;
         (b)   The quantity of soil for which the soil-moving permit is sought,
together with the calculations used to arrive at such determination of
quantity. The quantity shall be calculated by accepted earthmoving
computations, such as the average end area method;
         (c)   The proposed date of commencement and completion of the work;
         (d)   A description of equipment to be used in the soil movement
operations;
         (e)   Estimated number and size of trucks and other vehicles and
frequency;
         (f)   Proposed route(s) to be used by the vehicles in the moving and
installing of the soil;
         (g)   The source including the address of any soil imported from
outside the city. The city may require that soil be tested and certified safe
for its intended use based upon the historical survey of the source site and
the potential for contamination;
         (h)   Method of abating noise and dust in the soil moving operations;
and
         (i)   Topographical map prepared by a licensed professional land
surveyor. The map shall be prepared at a scale not to exceed 30 feet to the
inch. The topographical map shall include the following:
            1.   Boundary limits of the entire lot, including metes and bounds
information;
            2.   Limits of the area to be disturbed or graded;
            3.   The present grades at two-foot intervals of the area to be
disturbed or graded and the area 25 feet outside the limits of the area to be
disturbed or graded;
            4.   The proposed grades at one-foot intervals of the area to be
disturbed or graded and the area 25 feet outside the limits of the area to be
disturbed or graded, using a designation different than those used for the
present grades;
            5.   The present grades at two-foot intervals of all adjacent
properties to a distance of at least 15 feet from the lot in question,
including the location of any structures within such 15 feet if the area to be
disturbed or graded is within 25 feet of the property line;
            6.   Existing surface and subsurface drainage conditions and
patterns of the lot and surrounding area; and
            7.   Location of any freshwater wetlands and water body, on the lot
or within 50 feet of the area to be disturbed.
      (4)   Permitted site(s) may be subject to additional inspections if a
notice of violation is issued (see §
155.090).
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 155.041 INSPECTION AND ENTRY.
   The permittee and/or the property owner shall allow any authorized employees
and representatives of the city, representatives of the State Division of Water
Quality, and representatives of the EPA to enter the site to which a permit
applies at any time to inspect the erosion and sediment control measures
maintained by the permittee. The permittee shall also allow inspection of any
records pertaining to the conditions of the permit or related to ensuring
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 155.042 LONG-TERM MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Permittees holding a major stormwater construction activity permit may
be required that the property owner enter a long-term inspection and
maintenance agreement with the city if permanent private infrastructure or
stormwater management facilities are installed.
   (B)   The agreement acts as a deed restriction and is binding on all
subsequent owners of land served by private stormwater management facilities.
The executed agreement shall be recorded by the applicant and/or owner in the
land records of the county/municipality.
   (C)   The agreement shall include the following:
      (1)   Detail the post-construction operation, maintenance, and inspection
requirements for any permanently installed privately owned infrastructure
related to stormwater management of the site.
      (2)   Assign responsibility for the maintenance and repair of the
stormwater facility to the owner of the property upon which the facility is
located and be recorded as such on the plat for the property by appropriate
notation.
      (3)   Provide a requirement for annual inspections by the property owner
for the purpose of documenting maintenance and repair needs and ensure
compliance with the purpose and requirements of this chapter. The property
owner will arrange for this inspection to be conducted by a Registered
Stormwater Inspector (RSI) or registered professional engineer licensed to
practice in the State of Utah who will submit a sealed report of the inspection
to the city.
      (4)   Provide for a schedule to ensure maintenance needs shall be
addressed in a timely manner.
      (5)   Require that after notice by the city to correct a violation
requiring maintenance work or repairs that such violations shall be
satisfactorily addressed within the time frames in §
155.091. If the required work is not completed within the required time, the
city shall perform or cause to have performed the required maintenance or
repairs.
         (a)   The city's direct or indirect cost of performing the
maintenance/repairs shall be a lien against the property if the property owner
does not submit reimbursement to the city within 45 days.
      (6)   If exceptional circumstances are cited by the City Engineer, the
owner shall take immediate action to address the situation and/or the city will
direct and cause to have required actions taken. The city's direct or indirect
cost of performing the maintenance/repairs shall be a lien against the property
if the property owner does not submit reimbursement to the city within 45 days.
      (7)   Self-inspection reports shall be conducted monthly or more often if
necessary and maintained on site by the owner and available to the city for all
stormwater management systems. Inspection reports for stormwater management
systems shall include the following:
         (a)   The date, time and conditions at the time of inspection.
         (b)   Name of the inspector.
         (c)   The condition of (as applicable):
            1.   Vegetation or filter media;
            2.   Fences or other safety devices;
            3.   Spillways, valves, or other control structures;
            4.   Embankments, slopes, and safety benches;
            5.   Reservoir or treatment areas;
            6.   Inlet and outlet channels or structures;
            7.   Underground drainage;
            8.   Sediment and debris accumulation in storage and forebay areas;
            9.   Any nonstructural practices to the extent practicable;
            10.   Any other item that could affect the proper function of the
stormwater management system; and
            11.   Detailed description of needed maintenance and schedules.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 155.043 STORMWATER FACILITIES OWNERSHIP, OPERATION, AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Stormwater facilities dedicated to the city:
      (1)   Dedication. The city shall have the discretion to require the
dedication of any existing or future stormwater management facility, provided:
         (a)   Such facility(ies) meets the requirements of this chapter;
         (b)   Includes adequate and perpetual access and sufficient areas, by
easement or otherwise, for inspection and regular maintenance;
         (c)   Shall meet the city's engineering standards and any other as
applicable;
         (d)   Operation and maintenance of stormwater facilities within the
city shall be in conformance with the requirements of the MS4 permit;
         (e)   The stormwater facility, easement, and/or land on which the
facility is constructed shall be dedicated by recorded plat, easement, and/or
deed; and
         (f)   All stormwater facilities shall be designed in accordance with
City Engineering standards and specifications, such as:
            1.   Release rate no greater than 0.2 cfs/acre.
            2.   Low impact development requirements as applicable.
            3.   Eightieth percentile storm event.
            4.   Submission of as-built construction drawings.
   (B)   Stormwater facilities/infrastructure under private ownership and/or
operation:
      (1)   All stormwater infrastructure located on private land or that is to
be accessed through private land, must have easements for the purpose of
access, inspection, maintenance, and repair. These easements must be binding on
the current property owner and all subsequent owners, heirs and successors of
the property and must be properly recorded in the land record.
      (2)   The city may enter all private properties through which the city
holds an easement for the purposes of inspecting, observing, measuring,
sampling, repairing, or maintaining any portion of the storm sewer facilities
installed within the easement, or the performance of any other duties pertinent
to the operation of the storm sewer system. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on an easement shall be completed according to any special terms of the
easement.
      (3)   The responsibility for the maintenance and repair of stormwater
facilities shall be assigned to the owner of the property upon which the
facility is located and be recorded against the property by appropriate
notation.
      (4)   Where stormwater infrastructure is not maintained or repaired
within the prescribed schedule, the city may perform the maintenance and repair
at its expense and bill the same to the property owner. In the event that
payment is not made within 45 days, the city's cost of performing the
maintenance shall be a lien against the property.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
IMPACT FEE
§ 155.075 STORMWATER IMPACT FEE SERVICE AREA ESTABLISHED.
   The Stormwater Service Area will coincide with the current and future
boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 155.076 STORMWATER IMPACT FEE ENACTED.
   Based on and in consideration of the findings of the City Council, the data
contained in the City's General Plan, and the most recently adopted Impact Fee
Analysis, the City Council enacted Stormwater Impact Fees, the applicability of
which to the categories indicated in the adopted ordinance were confirmed, for
the established Stormwater Impact Service Area. The fee outlined in the
ordinance having been determined to comport as required with applicable law and
the findings of the Impact Fee Analysis is the Stormwater Impact Fee adopted by
the City Council.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 155.077 ADJUSTMENT OF STANDARD IMPACT FEE.
   (A)   If after an applicant has paid the standard impact fee, the City
Council may adjust the standard impact fee, upon written notice to the City
Manager by the appellant:
      (1)   Unusual circumstances in specific cases; or
      (2)   A request for a prompt and individualized impact fee review for the
development activity of the state, a school district, or a charter school and
an offset or credit for a public facility for which an impact fee has been or
will be collected and to ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly.
   (B)   The City Council may also adjust the calculation of the amount of an
impact to be imposed on a particular development based upon studies and data
submitted by the developer.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 155.078 IMPACT FEE CREDITS.
   (A)   The City Council shall ensure that a developer, including a school
district or a charter school, shall receive a credit against or proportionate
reimbursement of an impact fee if the developer:
      (1)   Dedicates land for a system improvement.
      (2)   Builds or dedicates some or all of a system improvement; or
      (3)   Dedicates a public facility that the local political subdivision or
private entity and the developer agrees will reduce the need for a system
improvement.
   (B)   The City County shall give a credit against impact fees for any
dedication of land for, improvement to, or new construction of, any system
improvements provided by the developer if the facilities:
      (1)   Are system improvements; or are dedicated to the public; and
      (2)   Offsets the need for an identified system improvement.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 155.079 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Any fees, except for the impact fee which is controlled by the most
recently adopted impact fee ordinance, imposed by the requirements of this
chapter shall be in accordance with the most recently adopted Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
   (B)   Where existing fees differ from any fees established in this chapter,
the former are hereby repealed to the extent of that difference and the fees
adopted herein are now placed in the Consolidated Fee Schedule instead.
   (C)   Where fees established in this chapter are not listed in the City's
Consolidated Fee Schedule, the fees adopted herein are now placed in the
Consolidated Fee Schedule and the same are hereby adopted as part of the
official fee schedule for West Haven City.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.090 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.
   (A)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any provision of
this chapter, or whenever the city has cause to believe that there exists, or
potentially exists, a condition which constitutes a violation of this chapter,
the city may enter the premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same and
to inspect and copy records related to stormwater compliance.
   (B)   In the event the owner or occupant refuses entry after a request to
enter and inspect has been made, the city is hereby empowered to seek
assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in obtaining such entry.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 155.091 ENFORCEMENT/NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The City Engineer, Public Works Director, and/or Stormwater Manager
shall have the authority to issue notices of violations under this chapter.
   (B)   A person or permittee may be issued a notice of violation for:
      (1)   Failure of a permittee to comply with any provision of this chapter
or any other applicable law, ordinance, rule, or regulation related to
stormwater.
      (2)   A determination by the City Engineer, Public Works Director,
Stormwater Manager, or Registered Stormwater Inspector that the erosion and
sediment control measures implemented by a permittee pursuant to the permit are
inadequate to prevent or minimize, to the maximum extent practicable, the
discharge of sediment, debris, or other pollutants from the construction site
by stormwater.
      (3)   The city may require without limitation:
         (a)   Direct immediate action be taken if an illicit discharge has
occurred or is likely to occur if there is a precipitation event;
         (b)   Issue a fine based on violation and in accordance with the most
recent consolidated fee schedule adopted by the City Council; or
         (c)   Require the permittee to submit, implement and execute an
abatement or remediation plan of stormwater pollution or contamination,
hazards, and the restoration of any affected property and modify the project
SWPPP as needed.
            1.   If the city tests or inspections indicate that a site is
causing or contributing to stormwater pollution, illegal discharges, and/or
non-stormwater discharges to the storm sewer system or waters of the United
States; and
            2.   If the violations continue after notice from the city, the
city may require any person engaged in the illicit activity and/or the owner/
operator of the site to provide, at his or her own expense, to require
additional/continual monitoring and analyses required by the city to determine
compliance with this chapter.
         (d)   The permittee shall be responsible for the payment to cover
administrative, clean-up, remediation, monitoring, analysis, reporting costs
and related expenses as well as for any costs incurred by the city.
         (e)   Issue a stop work order in conformance with §
155.092.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a notice of violation, the person or permitee shall
immediately take all reasonable steps to address the condition, including
cleaning up any contaminated surfaces so the material will not discharge in
subsequent storm events:
      (1)   If the violation creates a condition where sediment, debris, or
other pollutants could reasonably be illicitly discharged to the city storm
sewer system or waters of the state, action shall be immediately taken to
prevent or mitigate a discharge. Corrective actions shall be taken no later
than two
hours after initial notification by a city official;
      (2)   When the problem does not require a new or replacement control or
significant repair, the corrective action must be completed by the close of the
next business day; or
      (3)   When the problem requires a new or replacement control or
significant repair:
         1.   Install the new or modified control and make it operational;
         2.   Complete the repair, by no later than seven calendar days from
the time of discovery;
         3.   If it is infeasible to complete the installation or repair within
seven calendar days, the person or permittee must document in their records why
it is infeasible to complete the installation or repair within the seven-day
timeframe and document a schedule for installing the stormwater control(s) and
making it operational as soon as feasible after the seven-day timeframe;
            4.   Where these actions result in changes to any of the stormwater
controls or procedures documented in your SWPPP, you must modify your SWPPP
accordingly within five business calendar days of completing this work.
   (D)   The city may defer the notice requirements set forth in this section
and immediately proceed with criminal and/or civil action against the violator
if:
      (1)   The violation, in the opinion of the city, creates a serious risk
to persons, the environment, or property;
      (2)   The city deems the violation to constitute an emergency; or
      (3)   The violator was previously cited for the same violation.
   (E)   Notices of violation may also identify associated penalties in
addition to fines in accordance with §
155.999.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 155.092 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The City Engineer, Public Works Director, Stormwater Manager, or City
Registered Stormwater Inspectors shall have the authority to impose an
immediate stop work order of on-going construction activities.
   (B)   A stop work order may be imposed without previous notice if there is:
      (1)   Evidence that contaminated stormwater is or has the potential to be
discharged to any waters of the state, onto a public street, into the city
storm sewer system or onto an adjacent property; or
      (2)   That the erosion and sediment control measures implemented by a
permittee pursuant to the permit are inadequate to prevent or minimize, to the
maximum extent practicable, the discharge of sediment, debris, or other
pollutants from the construction site by stormwater.
   (C)   If exceptional circumstances are cited by the Building Official which
may include, but are not limited to, situations which involve a risk of injury
to persons, damage to storm drain facilities, or damage to other property or
the environment, the city may take any steps deemed necessary to immediately
alleviate any such exceptional circumstances and may bill the owner, developer,
or contractor responsible for all direct and indirect costs incurred by the
city.
   (D)   If a stop work order is issued by a Registered Stormwater Inspector,
then the Stormwater Manager, Public Works Director, or City Engineer must be
notified and approve the order prior to the issuance of the order or prior to
releasing the order.
   (E)   The stop work order will remain in effect until the permittee has
satisfactorily addressed all CORRECTIVE ACTION and brings the site back into
compliance.
   (F)   The Building Official shall have the authority to stop all work
permitted under the building code if the stop work order was imposed by a City
Official under the conditions of §
155.092(B).
   (G)   A stop work order could be lifted conditionally if restarting work
will not result in a new or continued violation.
   (H)   Being placed under a stop work order does not remove the permittee's
responsibilities and obligations to continually operate and maintain compliance
during the stop work order duration.
   (I)   Notice of violation(s) may be issued because of or due to a stop work
order and impose penalties and fines, in accordance with the nature of the
violation. Fines imposed shall be in accordance with the most recent
Consolidated Fee Schedule adopted by the City Council. Penalties may be imposed
in accordance with §
155.999 of the City Code.
   (J)   The permittee may appeal a stop work order pursuant to the appeal
procedure set forth in §
155.093.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 155.093 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person or permittee may appeal any decision or directive made by
the city under this chapter to the City Manager or his/her designee. The party
desiring to appeal shall file a notice of appeal at the city office within
three business days of the decision or directive being appealed.
   (B)   The notice of appeal shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The appellant's name, address, and daytime telephone number;
      (2)   A short statement describing the basis for the appeal;
      (3)   Copies of any executed stormwater construction activity permit and
supporting documents; and
      (4)   The relief sought by the appellant.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the City Manager shall set a
date for an informal hearing to consider the appeal.
   (D)   At the informal hearing, the appellant shall present all evidence and/
or witnesses that they have regarding the issue that they are appealing. The
City Manager shall examine the presented evidence and/or be allowed to question
any witness presented.
   (E)   The City Manager shall render a decision on the appeal within five
business days of the informal hearing with the appellant. The City Manager
shall uphold the decision or directive being appealed unless the City Manager
finds that there has been an error in the interpretation or implementation of
this chapter.
   (F)   The permittee shall implement required corrective actions during the
duration of the appeal process and maintain overall compliance with this
chapter.
   (G)   The permittee may elect not to implement corrective actions; however,
no site work shall be conducted during the duration of the appeal period.
   (H)   A finding in favor of an appellant does not hold the city responsible
for direct or indirect costs incurred by the permittee during the time the stop
work order was imposed.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of §
155.001 or any of the provisions of §§
155.020 through
155.027 is a Class C misdemeanor. Each day that a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   If, as the result of the violation of any provision of §
155.001 or any of the provisions of §§
155.015 through
155.020, the city or any other party suffers damages and is required to make
repairs and/or replace any materials, the cost of repair and/or replacement
shall be borne by the violating party and shall be in addition to any criminal
or civil fines and/or penalties.
   (C)   Violators of § 155.001 or any of the provisions of §§
155.015 through
155.020 may also be subject to prosecution, fines, and penalties from the State
of Utah and the United States EPA.
   (D)   The violation of any of the provisions of §§
155.040 through
155.043 shall be a Class C misdemeanor. Each day that a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Violators of §§
155.040 through
155.043 are also subject to any penalties that may be imposed by the state,
under the authority of the state's Water Quality Act, UCA Title 19, Chapter 5.
   (F)   In addition to any criminal fines and/or penalties which may be
assessed for a violation of any of the provisions §§
155.040 through
155.043, the city shall have the right to issue a stop work order or to install
and/or maintain appropriate erosion and sediment control measures on any site
which is required to have such measures in the event that construction activity
is commenced or continued without such measures having been installed as
required by §§
155.040 through
155.043. The city shall have the right to have such measures installed or
maintained by city personnel or to hire a private contractor to perform such
work, and the contractor and/or the property owner shall be liable for any and
all expenses related to performing such work plus a 25% penalty charge. The
city may assess said charges against the financial guarantee posted by the
contractor and/or property owner.
   (G)   Any person owning or maintaining facilities or structures in the
public way who fails to alter, modify, or relocate such facilities or structure
upon notice by the city shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor. All costs of
alteration, modification or relocation shall be borne by the person owning or
maintaining the facilities or structures involved.
(Ord. 05-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Purpose and intent
   
156.002   Scope of chapter
   
156.003   Definitions
   
156.004   Conditions, covenants, restrictions
   
156.005   Stamped by licensed engineer
   
156.006   Bond for curb, gutter damage
   
156.007   New Development Planning, Inspection, and Escrow Release Report
Preliminary Plan
   
156.020   Preliminary information
   
156.021   Subdivision information form
   
156.022   Preliminary plan filing
   
156.023   Preliminary plan application fee
   
156.024   Preliminary plan requirements
   
156.025   Preliminary plan approval
   
156.026   Time limitation
   
156.027   Grading limitation
   
156.028   Submittal criteria
Final Plat
   
156.040   Final plat required
   
156.041   Final plat requirements
Subdivision Standards
   
156.055   Related to adjoining street systems
   
156.056   Street and alley widths, cul-de-sacs, easements
   
156.057   Blocks
   
156.058   Lots
   
156.059   Parks, school sites, and other public places
   
156.060   Cluster subdivisions; special provisions
   
156.061   Identification of floodplain
   
156.062   Power and telephone utilities
   
156.063   Public works standards
Condominium Projects
   
156.075   Definitions
   
156.076   Condominium projects; subdivisions
   
156.077   Condominium projects to comply with local ordinances
   
156.078   Approval of condominium declaration
   
156.079   Installation of improvements
Subdivision Improvements Required
   
156.090   Owner of subdivision responsible for costs
   
156.091   Improvements required
   
156.092   Guarantee of improvements
   
156.093   Inspection of improvements
Enforcement and Permits
   
156.105   Subdivision approval required for permit
   
156.106   Subdivision processing; schedule
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The underlying purpose and intent of this chapter is to promote the
health, safety, convenience, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the
incorporated city in the matter of the subdivision of land and related matters
affected by such subdivision.
   (B)   Any proposed subdivision and its ultimate use shall be in the best
interests of the public welfare and the neighborhood development of the area
concerned, and the subdivider shall present evidence to this effect when
requested to do so by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Any proposed subdivision with 31 or more lots will require a minimum
of two roads.
   (D)   In cases where unusual topographical or other exceptional conditions
exist, variations and exceptions from this chapter may be made by the City
Council, after recommendation by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   If an exception is being considered, a public hearing must be held
prior to approval.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.010) (Ord. 3-92, passed 1-15-1992; Ord. 3-93-A, passed 4-
14-1993)
§ 156.002 SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   No person shall subdivide any tract of land which is located wholly in
the city, except in compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall sell or exchange, or offer to sell or exchange, any
parcel of land which is a part of a subdivision of a larger tract of land, nor
offer for recording in the office of the County Recorder any deed conveying
such a parcel of land, or any interest therein, unless such subdivision has
been created pursuant to, and in accordance with, the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of a
subdivision created and recorded prior to the effective date of the subdivision
regulations adopted in the city on March 1992.
   (D)   No lot within a subdivision approved by the city and recorded in the
County Recorder’s office, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be further divided, rearranged, added to, or reduced in area, nor shall
the boundaries of any lot be altered in any manner so as to create more lots
than initially recorded or any nonconforming lot, without first petitioning the
city to amend the subdivision plat and obtaining the approval of the Planning
Commission. All subdivision amendments shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter, the underlying zoning standards, and standards set within UCA §§ 10-
9a-608 and 10-9a-609 as amended.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.020) (Ord. 3-92, passed 1-15-1992; Ord. 01-25, passed 2-
19-2025) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare less than 26 feet wide.
   AVERAGE PERCENT OF SLOPE. An expression of rise or fall in elevation along a
line perpendicular to the contours of the land connecting the highest point of
land to the lowest point of land within a parcel or lot. A vertical rise of 100
feet between two points 100 feet apart measured on a horizontal plane in a 100%
grade.
   BLOCK. The land surrounded by streets and other rights-of-way other than an
alley, or land which is designated as a BLOCK on any recorded subdivision plat.
   BONA FIDE DIVISION OR PARTITION OF AGRICULTURAL LAND FOR AGRICULTURAL
PURPOSES.
      (1)   The division of agricultural land into lots or parcels of five
acres or more in area whose principal use is the raising and grazing of animals
or agriculture as that use is defined in the city zoning ordinance.
      (2)   Provided that:
         (a)   No dedication of any streets shall be required to serve any such
lots or parcels of agricultural land so created;
         (b)   The agricultural lots or parcels so created shall not thereafter
be further divided into parcels of less than five acres without being
subdivided in accordance with the subdivision regulations of the city; and
         (c)   No dwellings shall be permitted unless all subdivision and
zoning requirements of the city, and health requirements of the county, are
met.
   CITY. The City of West Haven, Utah.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of West Haven, Utah.
   COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER. The Administrative and Executive Officer of the
County Health Department and Local Registrar of Vital Statistics, or his or her
duly-authorized representatives.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor terminal street provided with a turnaround.
   EASEMENT. The portion of a lot or lots reserved for present or future use by
a person or agency other than the legal owner or owners of said property or
properties. The EASEMENT may be for use under, on, or above said lot or lots.
   HALF STREET. The portion of a street within a subdivision comprising of one-
half the required right-of-way width upon which improvements in accordance with
one-half of an approved typical street cross section are constructed.
   MARGINAL ACCESS (STREET). A minor street which is parallel to and adjacent
to a limited access major street and which provides access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
   PRIVATE STREET. A thoroughfare within a subdivision which has been reserved
by dedication unto the subdivider or lot owners to be used as private access to
serve the lots platted within the subdivision and complying with the adopted
street cross section standards of the city and maintained by the subdivider or
other private agency.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of any tract, lot, or parcel of land owned, at the
time of the adoption of this chapter as an undivided tract by one individual,
or by joint tenants or tenants in common, or by tenants by the entirety, into
three or more lots, plots, sites, or other divisions of land for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of sale or of building development.
      (2)   Provided that said term SUBDIVISION shall not include a bona fide
division or partition of agricultural land for agricultural development
purposes, nor a division of land into three or more parcels, each of which is
80 acres or more in area.
      (3)   The word SUBDIVISION, and any derivative thereof, shall have
reference to the term SUBDIVISION as herein defined.
      (4)   For the purpose of these regulations, a SUBDIVISION OF LAND shall
include:
         (a)   The dedication of a road, highway, or street through a tract of
land, regardless of area, which may create a division of lots or parcels
constituting a subdivision; and
         (b)   Re-subdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into lots,
sites, or parcels.
   SUBDIVISION CLUSTER.
      (1)   A subdivision of land in which the lots have areas less than the
minimum lot area of the zone in which the subdivision is located, but which
comply with the cluster subdivision provisions of the zoning ordinance.
      (2)   A significant part of the land is privately reserved or dedicated
as permanent common open space to provide an attractive low-density character
for the residential lots in the subdivision.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The uniform zoning ordinance of the city as adopted by the
City Council, as amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.030) (Ord. 3-92, passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.004 CONDITIONS, COVENANTS, RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Each developer/owner of any subdivision development within the city
shall, as a condition of that development, cause to be drafted, issued, and
placed on file with the city, prior to the issuance of any building permit,
excavation, or other construction permit for said subdivision, CCRs that
adequately address the ongoing management and enforcement of the development
conditions imposed by the developer on that development as a condition of
approval by the city.
   (B)   At a minimum, such CCRs shall make provision for some form of
perpetual maintenance and management process either through an effective home
owners’ association, a dedicated trust fund of sufficient initial size that it
may reasonably be expected, as determined by sound actuarial principles, to
provide ongoing funding for maintenance of common area facilities, and
management and enforcement of the conditions of development as set out in the
CCRs, or establish and set out such other arrangements as the city may
reasonably find acceptable.
(Ord. 20-2004, passed 9-1-2004)
§ 156.005 STAMPED BY LICENSED ENGINEER.
   (A)   Approval of preliminary and final plans. Any other provision of this
chapter or any other city ordinance notwithstanding, each preliminary or final
subdivision, or other development, plan submitted for review to the city shall,
from the effective date of this chapter, be required to be stamped or otherwise
bear a legible indicia of approval of a licensed engineer or surveyor as
appropriate to the plan submitted.
   (B)   Costs of City Engineer reviews. Any other provision of this chapter,
or any other city ordinance notwithstanding, from the effective date of this
chapter, developers submitting preliminary or final subdivision, or other
development, plans for review by the City Engineer shall be required to pay the
cost of those plan reviews. The City Engineer will provide the city with a
documented billing record of such reviews, and the city will provide that
billing information to the responsible developer. The developer will pay the
billing directly to the city.
(Ord. 26-98, passed 11-18-1998)
§ 156.006 BOND FOR CURB, GUTTER DAMAGE.
   (A)   Each builder of a home shall be required to post a bond in the amount
of $500 to ensure that any damage done to the city’s curbs and gutters during
the building construction on adjacent lots will be able to be repaired at no
cost to citizens.
   (B)   Upon inspection by, and approval of, the City Engineer, either:
      (1)   The funds posted under the bond required above shall be utilized to
repair damage done to curbs and gutters during construction, if any, with:
         (a)   Any monies not used for those repairs to be returned to the
individual who posted the bond; or
         (b)   If the money posted under the bond is insufficient to cover the
cost of repairs as determined to be required by the City Engineer, the builder
will be contacted and shall provide such additional sums as shall reasonably be
necessary to complete the repairs.
      (2)   If there is no damage identified by the City Engineer, the bond
shall be released to the party who provided the bond.
(Ord. 16-99, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 156.007 NEW DEVELOPMENT PLANNING, INSPECTION, AND ESCROW RELEASE REPORT.
   The city’s New Development Planning, Inspection, and Escrow Release Report,
as contained in Ord. 18-2005, along with the ordinance’s “Addendum A,” is
hereby adopted by reference as if incorporated into this code in full.
(Ord. 18-2005, passed 12-7-2005)
PRELIMINARY PLAN
§ 156.020 PRELIMINARY INFORMATION.
   Each person who proposes to sub-divide land within the city limits shall
confer with the Planning Commission staff before preparing any plats, charts,
or plans in order to become familiar with the city subdivision requirements and
existing master plans for the territory in which the proposed subdivision lies,
and to discuss the proposed plan of development of the tract.
(Prior Code, § 15.02.010) (Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.021 SUBDIVISION INFORMATION FORM.
   A subdivision information form supplied to the subdivider by the Planning
Commission shall be filled out and submitted to the Planning Commission with
the preliminary plan.
(Prior Code, § 15.02.020) (Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.022 PRELIMINARY PLAN FILING.
   A preliminary plan shall be prepared in conformation with the standards,
rules, and regulations contained herein, and 12 black and white prints thereof
shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for approval or disapproval. One
print shall be delivered by the Planning Commission to each of the following
for their information and recommendations of such officials and departments:
County Recorder, City Engineer, City Fire Department, County Health Officer,
County School Board, and companies furnishing telephone, electric, water or gas
service, and the canal company.
(Prior Code, § 15.02.030) (Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.023 PRELIMINARY PLAN APPLICATION FEE.
   At the time of filing the preliminary plan, the subdivider shall deposit
with the Planning Commission a non-refundable fee made payable to the city. The
City Council shall, by resolution from time to time, prescribe the amount of
such fee, which shall be for the purpose of reimbursing the city for the
expense incidental in connection with the checking and approving of such
subdivision plans. Such fees are hereby made a part of the West Haven City
Consolidated Fee Schedule. The West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule is
hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 15.02.040) (Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992; Ord. 26-2023, passed 1-
3-2024)
§ 156.024 PRELIMINARY PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The preliminary plan shall be drawn to a scale not smaller than 100
feet to the inch and shall show:
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
      (2)   The location as forming a part of a larger tract or parcel, where
the plat submitted covered only a part of a larger vacant area. In such case, a
sketch of the prospective future street system of the unplatted parts shall be
submitted, and the street system of the part submitted shall be considered in
the light of adjustments and connections with the future street system of the
larger area;
      (3)   Sufficient information to locate accurately the property shown on
the plan;
      (4)   The individual or company names and addresses of the subdivider,
the engineer and the registered land surveyor of the subdivision, and the
owners of the land immediately adjoining the land to be subdivided;
      (5)   Contour map at intervals of two feet, five feet, or ten feet, as
determined by the Planning Commission;
      (6)   The boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided;
      (7)   The location, widths, and other dimensions of all existing or
platted streets and other important features, such as railroad lines, water
courses, exceptional topography, and buildings within or immediately adjacent
to the tract to be subdivided;
      (8)   Existing sanitary sewers, storm drains, water supply mains, water
wells, and culverts within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto;
      (9)   The location, widths, and other dimensions of proposed public
streets, private streets, or private access rights-of-way, alleys, utility
easements, parks, other open spaces, and lots with proper labeling of spacing
to be dedicated to the public, or designated as private streets or private
access rights-of-way; and
      (10)   North point, scale, and date.
   (B)   Plans or written statements prepared by a licensed civil engineer
regarding the width and type of proposed pavement, location, size, and type of
proposed sanitary sewers or other sewage disposal facilities, proposed water
mains and hydrants, and other proposed stormwater drainage facilities, and
other proposed improvements such as sidewalks, plantings, and parks, and any
grading of individual lots.
(Prior Code, § 15.02.050) (Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.025 PRELIMINARY PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   Following a review of the preliminary plan, the Planning Commission
shall act on the plan as submitted or modified. If approved, the Planning
Commission shall express its written approval with whatever conditions are
attached and by returning one copy of the preliminary plan, signed by the
Planning Director, to the subdivider. If the preliminary plan is disapproved,
the Planning Commission shall indicate its disapproval in writing and reasons
therefor by similarly-signed copies.
   (B)   Notification of approval of the preliminary plan shall be
authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of the final
plat and specifications for the minimum improvements required in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15.02.060) (Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.026 TIME LIMITATION.
   (A)   Approval of the preliminary plan by the Planning Commission shall be
valid for a maximum period of 18 months after approval, unless, upon
application of the subdivider, the Planning Commission grants an extension.
   (B)   If the final plat has not been submitted within the 18 months or
approved extended period, the preliminary plan must again be submitted to the
Planning Commission for re-approval; however, preliminary approval of a large
tract shall not be voided; provided, that the final plat of the first section
is submitted for final approval within the 18-month period.
(Prior Code, § 15.02.070) (Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.027 GRADING LIMITATION.
   No large scale excavation, grading, or regarding as determined by the
Planning Commission shall take place on any land for which a preliminary
subdivision plan has been submitted until such plan has been given preliminary
approval by the Planning Commission, and then only in accordance with the
excavation ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 15.02.080) (Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.028 SUBMITTAL CRITERIA.
   All preliminary subdivision plats (24 by 36 sheet size) must contain the
following:
   (A)   A subdivision name;
   (B)   A north arrow, scale, not less then one to one hundred (1:100), and
reparation date;
   (C)   A vicinity map to locate the property to be subdivided;
   (D)   The boundary lines and dimensions of the parcel to be subdivided;
   (E)   The location, widths, areas, and other dimensions of proposed lots,
streets, easements, detention basins, and other features of the subdivision;
   (F)   The location of existing and proposed improvements such as curbs and
gutters, sanitary sewers, storm drains, and drainage plan, water supply lines,
and culverts within 100 feet of the subdivision;
   (G)   The location, widths, and other dimensions of existing or platted
streets, or other features, such as water courses, buildings, or railroad lines
within 200 feet of the proposed subdivision;
   (H)   Existing ground contours of intervals not less than two feet; and
   (I)   The names and addresses of the property owner of record, developer,
engineer, or surveyor, and the owner’
(Ord. 17-98, passed 6-3-1998)
FINAL PLAT
§ 156.040 FINAL PLAT REQUIRED.
   (A)   After compliance with the provisions of §§
156.020 through
156.028, the subdivider shall submit a final plat with four copies thereof to
the Planning Commission. Such plat shall be accompanied by a letter of
certification by the subdivided registered land surveyor, indicating that all
lots meet the requirements of the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   The final plat and accompanying information shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission at least five days prior to a regularly-scheduled Planning
Commission meeting in order to be considered at said meeting.
(Prior Code, § 15.04.010) (Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.041 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The final plat shall consist of a sheet of approved tracing linen or
Mylar to the outside or trim dimensions of 24 by 36 inches, and the border line
of the plat shall be drawn in heavy lines leaving a space of at least one-half
inch margin on all four sides of the sheet. The final plat shall be signed and
stamped by a registered land surveyor. The plat shall be so drawn that the top
of the sheet faces either north or east, whichever accommodates the drawing
best. All lines, dimensions, and markings shall be made on the tracing linen
with approved waterproof, black India drawing ink. The plat shall be made to
scale large enough to clearly show all details, and in any case not smaller
than 100 feet to the inch and the workmanship on the finished drawing shall be
neat, clean-cut, and readable. The plat shall be signed by all parties
mentioned in division (A)(8) below, duly authorized and required to sign, and
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A subdivision name, approved by the County Recorder, and the
general location of the subdivision in bold letters at the top of the sheet.
The township, range, and quarter section shall be shown on the top of the plat;
      (2)   Where a subdivision complies with the cluster subdivision
provisions of the zoning ordinance, the final plat shall indicate underneath
the subdivision name the words, “cluster subdivision;”
      (3)   A north point and scale of the drawing and the date;
      (4)   Accurately drawn boundaries, showing the proper bearings, basis of
bearings, and dimensions of all boundary lines of the subdivision. These lines
should be slightly heavier than street and lot lines. The state plane grid
bearings (where available) shall be noted on the linen, and the basis of
bearing sufficient for retracement shall also be noted on the final plat;
      (5)   The names, widths, lengths, bearings, and curve data on centerlines
of proposed streets, alleys, and easements; also the boundaries, bearings, and
dimensions of all portions within the subdivision as intended to be dedicated
to the use of the public; the lines, dimensions, bearings, areas, and numbers
of all lots, blocks, and parts reserved for any reason within the subdivision.
All lots are to be numbered consecutively under a definite system approved by
the City Engineer. All proposed streets shall be named or numbered
consecutively under a definite system approved by the City Engineer and conform
as far as practicable to the adopted street naming and numbering system of the
city;
      (6)   A house number indicating the street address for each lot in the
subdivision shall be assigned by the City Engineer marked on each lot so as to
face the street frontage. Corner lots shall have a house number assigned for
frontage;
      (7)   Parcels of land to be dedicated as public parks or to be
permanently reserved for private common open space shall be included in the lot
numbering system and shall also be titled “Public Park” or “Private Common Open
Space,” whichever is applicable;
      (8)   The standard forms approved by the Planning Commission for all
subdivision plats lettered for the following, and as shown in §
156.004:
         (a)   Description of land to be included in subdivision;
         (b)   Registered land surveyor’s certificate of survey;
         (c)   Owner’s dedication certificate;
         (d)   Notary public’s acknowledgment;
         (e)   City Planning Commission’s certificate of approval;
         (f)   City Engineer’s certificate of approval;
         (g)   City Attorney’s certificate of approval;
         (h)   City Council’s certificate of acceptance;
         (i)   City Clerk’s certificate of attest; and
         (j)   City Surveyor’s certificate of approval.
      (9)   A three-inch by three-inch space in the lower right-hand corner of
the drawing for recording information; and
      (10)   The subdivision boundary corners shall be set on the site prior to
recording of the final plat. The subdivision boundary corners and centerlines
street monuments shall be noted on the final plat. For subdivisions that are
located in the city which are zoned for agriculture (A-1 and A-2), the
following statement shall be required on each page of the final plat:
 
“Agriculture is the preferred use in the agricultural zones. Agricultural
operations as specified in the Zoning Ordinance for a particular zone are
permitted at any time including the operation of farm machinery and no allowed
agricultural use shall be subject to restriction on the basis that it
interferes with activities of future residents of this subdivision.”
 
   (B)   For subdivisions that include lots which will be partially or
completely in the base floodplain (see §§
157.390 through
157.395) of any river, stream, watercourse, lake, or other body of standing
water, a boundary and elevations of the floodplain shall be required on the
final plat. The lowest elevation of any inhabitable floor in any structure for
each lot shall also be shown on the final plat.
   (C)   The subdivider shall furnish to the City Engineer a complete set of
drawings signed and stamped by a licensed civil engineer of engineering designs
for all streets, existing and proposed, and all utilities to be constructed
within the subdivision together with the final plat. All such utility and road
construction shall be in accordance with the adopted public works standards of
the city.
   (D)   (1)   After approving and signing the final plat, the Planning
Commission shall submit the plat for approval of the City Engineer, who shall
check the engineering requirements of the drawing and determine the amount of
the bend to assure construction of the improvements where necessary.
      (2)   After approval and signature by the City Engineer, the plat and
bond agreement shall be submitted to the City Attorney and the City Council,
respectively, for their approval. The final plat, bearing all official
approvals as above required, shall be deposited in the offices of the County
Recorder for recording at the expense of the subdivider, who shall be notified
of such deposit by the office of the County Recorder.
      (3)   Any final plat not so approved and signed, or which shall not be
offered for recording within one year after the date of final approval, unless
the time is extended by the Planning Commission, shall not be recorded or
received for recording, and shall have no validity whatsoever.
      (4)   No street improvements or utilities shall be installed until after
approval of the improvement plans by the City Engineer. No lots included in
such plat shall be purchased, sold, exchanged, or offered for sale, and no
construction of buildings upon such lots shall begin until the final plat is so
approved and recorded.
      (5)   The subdivider shall deposit with the city, at the time of final
plat approval, an amount of money equal to the estimated cost of purchase and
installation of the traffic-control and street name signs required for proper
completion of subdivision traffic direction.
      (6)   The subdivider shall deposit with the city, at the time of final
plat approval, an amount of money equal to the estimated cost of the street
monuments required for the subdivision so that the city may install such
monuments as soon as practical by giving the first opportunity to the
subdividing surveyor, or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 15.04.020) (Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992; Ord. 2-96, passed 3-20-
1996)
SUBDIVISION STANDARDS
§ 156.055 RELATED TO ADJOINING STREET SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision
for the continuation of the existing streets in adjoining areas (or their
proper protection where adjoining land is not subdivided) insofar as such may
be deemed necessary by the Planning Commission for public requirements. The
street arrangement must be such so as to cause no unnecessary hardship to
owners of adjoining property when they plat their own land and seek to provide
for convenient access to it.
   (B)   Minor streets shall approach the major or collector streets at an
angle of not less than 80 degrees.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.056 STREET AND ALLEY WIDTHS, CUL-DE-SACS, EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Streets in subdivisions shall be dedicated to the city as public
streets, except that private streets improved to city public street standards
may be approved in planned residential unit developments (PRUDs).
   (B)   Major and collector streets shall conform to the width designated on
the master street plan wherever a subdivision falls in an area for which a
master street plan has been adopted. For territory where such street plan has
not been completed at the time the preliminary plan is submitted to the
Planning Commission, major or collector streets shall be provided as required
by the Planning Commission, with minimum widths of 80 or 100 feet for major
streets and 66 feet for collector streets.
   (C)   Standard residential streets shall have a minimum width of 60 feet,
except that minor terminal streets and loop streets, or minor private streets,
may have widths of not less than 50 feet.
   (D)   Minor terminal streets (cul-de-sacs) proposed in the subdivision of
flat land where topography presents no barriers to development shall have a
maximum length of 650 feet to the beginning of the turnaround or may serve a
maximum of 14 lots, whichever is greater. Where a street is designated to
remain only temporarily as a dead end street, an adequate temporary turning
area shall be provided at the dead-end thereof to remain and be available for
public use so long as the dead end conditions exists.
   (E)   Marginal access streets of not less than 40 feet in width shall be
required paralleling all limited access major streets, unless the subdivision
is so designed that lots back onto such major streets.
   (F)   Half-streets proposed along a subdivision boundary or within any part
of a subdivision shall not be approved.
   (G)   All proposed streets, whether public or private, shall conform to the
city street cross-section standards as recommended by the Planning Commission
and adopted by the City Council.
   (H)   Except where due to special circumstances, street grades over
sustained lengths shall not exceed the following percentages: on major public
streets, 8%; on collector streets, 10%; on minor streets, 12%; and on private
streets, 15%.
   (I)   Alleys shall have a minimum width of 20 feet. Alleys may be required
in the rear of business lots, but will not be accepted in residential blocks
except under unusual conditions where such alleys are considered necessary by
the Planning Commission.
   (J)   Where subdivision streets parallel contiguous property of other
owners, the subdivider may retain a protection strip of not less than one foot
in width between said street and adjacent property; provided that an agreement
with the city and approved by the City Attorney has been made by the
subdivider, contracting to dedicate the one foot or larger protection strip
free of charge to the city for street purposes upon payment by the then owners
of the contiguous property to the subdivider of a consideration named in the
agreement, such consideration to be equal to the fair cost of the street
improvements properly chargeable to the contiguous property, plus the value of
one-half the land in the street at the time of the agreement.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.057 BLOCKS.
   (A)   The maximum length of blocks generally shall be 1,300 feet and the
minimum length of blocks shall be 500 feet. Blocks over 800 feet in length may,
at the discretion of the Planning Commission, be provided with a dedicated
walkway through the block at approximately the center of the block. Such
walkway shall be not less than six feet in width.
   (B)   The width of blocks shall be sufficient to allow two tiers of lots, or
as otherwise approved by the Planning Commission because of design, terrain, or
other unusual conditions.
   (C)   Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be designed
specifically for such purposes with adequate space set aside for off-street
parking and delivery facilities.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.058 LOTS.
   (A)   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that lots will provide
satisfactory and desirable sites for buildings, and be properly related to
topography and to existing and probable future requirements.
   (B)   All lots shown on the subdivision plat must conform to the minimum
area and width requirements of the zoning ordinance for the zone in which the
subdivision is located, or:
      (1)   Except as otherwise permitted by the Board of Adjustments;
      (2)   Where in accordance with the cluster subdivision provisions of the
zoning ordinance; or
      (3)   As required by the County Health Officer as being the minimum area
necessary for septic tank disposal and water, and well protection, if greater
than the above area requirements.
   (C)   Each lot shall abut on a public street, private street, or private
access right-of-way dedicated by the subdivision plat or an existing publicly-
dedicated street, or on a street which has become such by right of use and is
more than 26 feet wide, except as provided in division (D) below. Interior lots
having frontage on two streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
conditions make other design undesirable.
   (D)   Where approved by the Board of Adjustments, lots not having frontage
on a street as required by the zoning ordinance for the zone in which the
subdivision is located but upon a right-of-way may be included within a
subdivision, provided the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The Planning Commission determines that it is impractical to extend
streets to serve such lots;
      (2)   The area of the right-of-way shall be in addition to the minimum
lot area requirements of the zone in which the lot is located;
      (3)   The grade of any portion of the right-of-way or fee title access
strip shall not exceed 15%; and
      (4)   Lots so created shall be large enough to comply with all yard and
area requirements of the zone in which the lot is located.
   (E)   Corner lots shall have extra width sufficient for the maintenance of
required building lines on both sides.
   (F)   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at a right angle, or radial,
to the street line.
   (G)   All remnants of lots below the minimum size left over after
subdividing a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots, rather than allowed
to remain as unusable parcels.
   (H)   Where the land covered by a subdivision includes two or more parcels
in separate ownership and the lot arrangement is such that a property ownership
line divides one or more lots, the land in each lot so divided shall be
transferred by deed to either single or joint ownership before approval of the
final plat, and such transfer certified to the Planning Commission by the
County Recorder.
   (I)   The Planning Commission may require that easements for drainage
through adjoining property be provided by the subdivider, and easements of not
less than ten feet in width for water, sewers, drainage, power lines, and other
utilities shall be provided in the subdivision when required by the Planning
Commission.
   (J)   (1)   No mailbox or other receptacle may be installed within
developments within the city unless such installation and equipment has been
reviewed and approved by the postmaster responsible for the delivery of mail to
that property.
      (2)   Regulations promulgated by the United States Postal Service
relating to mailboxes and similar receptacles, including, but not limited to,
the installation and approved types of said receptacles, are hereby
incorporated by this reference as if fully set out herein, and a violation of
said regulations shall constitute a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992; Ord. 09-2001, passed 8-1-2001) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.059 PARKS, SCHOOL SITES, AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   In all subdivisions and subdivisions where there are no public
streets, the Planning Commission may require the dedication to the city of not
more than 3% of the gross area of the subdivision for parks, open spaces, or
other public uses in such locations as approved by the Planning Commission as
indicated on the approved preliminary plan.
   (B)   Where it is determined that a greater amount of land is required for
parks and open spaces to meet the master plan requirements for that area of the
city, or a school site is required, the Planning Commission, after so apprising
the appropriate agency, shall so indicate the open space or school site
requirements to the subdivider on the approved preliminary plan.
   (C)   The subdivider, at the time of filing the final plat with the Planning
Commission, must offer to sell at a fair market price to the city or other
appropriate public agency, within one year immediately following the recording
of the final plat, any land so designated for school sites or any land
designated for park or open space in excess of the 3% of land area required to
be dedicated in accordance with division (A) above.
   (D)   If any such proposed public areas or school sites have not been
purchased by the appropriate public agency within one year after the recording
of the final plat, such areas may be subdivided into lots and blocks in
accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.060 CLUSTER SUBDIVISIONS; SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Design standards.
      (1)   The design of the preliminary and final plats of the subdivision in
relation to streets, blocks, lots, common open spaces, and other design factors
shall be in harmony with the intent of zoning regulations, elements of the
master plan that have been adopted by the Commission, and design standards
recommended by the Planning Commission and approved by the City Council.
      (2)   Streets shall be so designed as to take advantage of open space
vistas and to create drives with a rural or open space character.
      (3)   Cluster subdivisions, in areas of the city where year-round living
is normally expected or proposed, shall use the following design elements in
preparation of the preliminary plat of the cluster subdivision.
         (a)   A majority of the proposed lots shall have direct access to the
common open space. The remaining lots shall be connected to the common space by
a trail system or by a sidewalk system in urban-type subdivisions.
         (b)   The proposed common open space shall consist of land which,
under normal circumstances, could be considered for subdivision. Land which
could normally not be developed but provides an amenity may also be a part of
the common open space. This may include riding arenas, lakes, developed play
areas, golf courses, or other similar such amenities.
         (c)   The number of lots in any cluster shall be approved by the
Planning Commission. The design of the clusters shall generally be such that
open space vistas or developed open spaces intercede between clusters.
   (B)   Provision of common open space.
      (1)   The subdivider of a cluster subdivision shall submit plans of
landscaping and improvements for the common open spaces. He or she shall also
explain the intended use of the open space and provide detailed provisions of
how the improvements thereon are to be financed and the area maintained. A
cluster subdivision must meet the requirements of the zoning ordinance, must
assure proper use, construction, and maintenance of open space facilities, and
must result in a development superior to conventional development in terms of
its benefits to future owners of the subdivision, surrounding residents, and
the general public.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may place whatever additional conditions or
restrictions it may deem necessary to ensure development and maintenance of the
desired character, including plans for deposition or re-use of property if the
open space use is not maintained in the manner agreed upon or is abandoned by
the owners.
   (C)   Guarantee of common open space improvements. As assurance of
completion of common open space improvements, the subdivider may be required to
file with the City Council a surety or cash bond guaranteeing such completion
in a manner satisfactory to the City Council, within two years of such filing.
Upon completion of the improvements for which a surety or cash bond has been
filed, the subdivider shall call for inspection by the Planning Commission,
such inspection to be made within 14 days from the date of request. If
inspection shows that landscaping and construction have been completed in
compliance with the approved plan, the bonds therefor shall be released within
seven days from the time of inspection. If the bonds are not released, refusal
to release and reasons therefor shall be given to the subdivider in writing,
also within seven days from the time of inspection.
   (D)   Continuation of common open space. As assurance of continuation of
common open space use, in accordance with the plans approved by the Planning
Commission, the subdivider shall grant to the city an open space easement on
and over the common open space prior to the recording of the final plat, which
easement will not give the general public right of access but will provide that
the common open space remains open.
   (E)   Maintenance of common open space, and the like.
      (1)   As assurance of maintenance of the common open space and other
improvements where so required, the subdivider shall cause to be formed, prior
to the recording of the final plat, a Lot Owners’ Association, and shall
establish articles of incorporation of the Association, bylaws, and covenants
outlining the purpose, organization, and operation of the Association.
      (2)   Such articles of incorporation and covenants shall, among other
things, provide:
         (a)   Membership shall be mandatory for each lot purchased and each
successive buyer;
         (b)   Common open space restrictions must be permanent, not just for a
period of years;
         (c)   The Association must be responsible for liability insurance,
local taxes, and the maintenance of recreational and other facilities;
         (d)   Lot owners must pay their prorate share of the costs;
         (e)   The assessment levied by the Association can become a lien on
the property;
         (f)   The Association must be able to adjust the assessment to meet
changed needs; and
         (g)   In the event the Lot Owners’ Association does not maintain the
common open space and improvements as proposed and indicated at the time of
subdivision, the city may, at its option, do or contract to have done the
required maintenance and recover the costs incident thereto by means of a lien
against the involved properties of the members of the Lot Owners’ Association.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.061 IDENTIFICATION OF FLOODPLAIN.
   (A)   The FLOODPLAIN, as used herein, shall mean the relatively flat area or
lowlands adjoining a river stream, watercourse, lake, or other body of standing
water that has or may be covered by floodwater. The boundaries of the
floodplain are the boundaries of the base flood (100-year flood) as identified
by the Federal Flood Insurance Administration in its flood hazard boundary map
(FHBM) (#490187A) dated May 2, 1978, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   In subdivisions of at least nine lots, base flood and ground elevation
data shall be provided for each lot by the developer and approved by the City
Engineer.
      (1)   Such data shall appear on the final subdivision linen. In
subdivisions of fewer than nine lots, the base elevation shall be determined by
the City Engineer.
      (2)   Any existing base flood elevation from federal, state, or local
sources shall be utilized to determine such flood elevations.
   (C)   In accordance with guidelines set by the Federal Flood Insurance
Administration, the elevations of the lowest inhabitable floor for any building
or structure shall be equal to or higher than the base flood elevation as
determined by the flood hazard boundary map and the City Engineer.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.062 POWER AND TELEPHONE UTILITIES.
   All electric power and telephone utility extensions to and in new
subdivisions shall be installed underground to utility company specifications,
except in those locations where the utility companies determine, and the
Planning Commission concurs, that it is impractical due to steep terrain,
inaccessible location, and the like.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.063 PUBLIC WORKS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public works standards.
      (1)   Modified high-back curb. Any other provision of this, or any other,
city ordinance notwithstanding, modified high-back curb shall, from the
effective date of this chapter, be required as a part of all future development
within the city as specified in the public works standards.
      (2)   TV and flush of storm drains and sewers. Any other provision of
this chapter or any other city ordinance notwithstanding, from the effective
date of this chapter, developers shall be required to provide TV and flush
services to storm drains and sewers installed in the city as a part of all
future development within the city as specified in the public works standards.
   (B)   Public works diagrams.
[IMAGE]
(Ord. 23-98, passed 10-7-1998)
CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS
§ 156.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   CONDOMINIUM PROJECT. A real estate condominium project, a plan, or a project
whereby two or more units, whether contained existing or proposed apartment,
commercial, or industrial buildings, or structures or otherwise, are separately
offered, or proposed to be offered, for sale. CONDOMINIUM PROJECT shall also
mean the property where the context so requires.
   UNIT. A separate physical part of the property intended for any type of
independent use, including one or more rooms or spaces located in one or more
floors (or part or parts of floors) in a building or a time period unit, as the
context may require. A convertible space shall be treated as a UNIT in
accordance with UCA § 57-8-13.4, as amended.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.076 CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS; SUBDIVISIONS.
   A condominium project shall be considered to be a subdivision, and a record
of survey map or supplement thereto prepared pursuant to the Condominium
Ownership Act, UCA § 57-8, as amended, shall be considered to be a subdivision
map or plat with respect to such real property or improvements that are to be
dedicated to the use of the public, and to those units which are not contained
existing or proposed buildings.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.077 CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS TO COMPLY WITH LOCAL ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Condominium projects shall comply with all the provisions of the city
uniform zoning ordinance, the building, health, and similar development
regulations and ordinances of the city, and with the city subdivision
regulations, and shall follow the procedures outlined in such regulations for
processing subdivisions.
   (B)   The standards and criteria for geographical layout of a condominium
project, the facilities of utility lines and roads, and the percentage of the
project to be devoted to common or recreational use shall comply with the
provisions of the ordinances and regulations in division (A) above.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.078 APPROVAL OF CONDOMINIUM DECLARATION.
   A copy of the preliminary condominium declaration prepared pursuant to UCA §
57-3, as amended, shall be submitted to the Planning Commission, along with the
preliminary record of survey, for review approval with respect to the standards
for the maintenance, upkeep, and operations of roads and the facilities of
utility lines.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.079 INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The developer of a condominium project shall, at his or her own expense,
install the improvements listed in §§
156.090 and
156.091. In addition, proposed recreation facilities, clubhouses, recreational
vehicle parking areas, and landscaping materials in accordance with an approved
plan shall be included in the guarantee of improvements provided by the
developer to the city prior to final approval by the city, or except as
provided in §§
156.090 and
156.091, in accordance with the plans and specifications as approved by the
city.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED
§ 156.090 OWNER OF SUBDIVISION RESPONSIBLE FOR COSTS.
   (A)   The owner of any land to be platted as a subdivision shall, at his or
her own expense, install the following improvements prior to recording the
final plat, or except as provided in §
156.091(A)(2)(b), according to the specifications and standards contained in
the West Haven City Engineering Design Standards and Specifications, and by
this reference made a part of these, except for septic tanks, which must be
installed according to the specifications of, and under the inspection of, the
County Health Officer. This document, adopted by reference, is the document of
“Public Works Standards and Technical Specifications” previously adopted and
utilized by the county. References in this document to “county,” “the county,”
“County Engineer,” “County Standards,” and the like shall, in all cases, be
interpreted to mean “city,” “the city,” “City Engineer,” “city standards,” and
the like.
   (B)   The owner or developer of any land to be platted as a subdivision of
one lot or more will be required, prior to recording the final plat, to provide
a minimum of one-half acre of water, or the equivalent thereof, per acre, if
water is currently available with the land being sold.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992; Ord. 4-95, passed 3-15-1995)
§ 156.091 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Water supply.
      (1)   Where an approved public water supply is reasonably accessible or
procurable, the subdivider shall install waterlines, or shall contract with the
local water distributing agency to make the water supply available to each lot
within the subdivision, including laterals to the property line of each lot.
The subdivider shall furnish to the County Health Officer three copies of plans
showing the location and size of proposed waterlines and fire hydrants, and
also existing waterlines to which a connection is to be made. Information
concerning the residual water pressure in the existing mains at the approximate
point of connection shall also be furnished. The County Health Officer shall
determine the adequacy of the existing water system to provide culinary water
and fire protection to the State Board of Health Requirements to the lots in
the subdivision. Written approval by the County Health Officer for the proposed
water supply shall be submitted to the Planning Commission before consideration
of the final plan.
      (2)   Where an approved public water supply or system is not reasonably
accessible nor procurable, the subdivider shall install a water distribution
system and provide a water supply to each lot from a source meeting the
requirements of the State Board of Health rules and regulations relating to
public water supplies and with the approval of the County Health Officer;
provided, that the Planning Commission shall permit the water supply to be
provided by means of individual wells if, in its determination, the subdivision
is not an extension or continuation of an existing or approved subdivision of
related property and the subdivision is in a location where water supply
pollution is not considered to be a significant problem or factor as follows:
         (a)   In subdivisions of ten or more, but less than 20, lots where
each lot has a minimum area of two and one-half acres and a minimum width of
300 feet; or
         (b)   In subdivisions of less than ten lots, evidence shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission prior to the final approval of the
subdivision that an adequate water supply meeting State Board of Health
requirements is available in sufficient quantity to serve the subdivision.
      (3)   If individual well permits will not be issued by the State Division
of Water Rights, one well permit must be obtained along with a letter of
feasibility from the Division of Water Rights which states that well permits
can be issued in the proposed area by the Division of Water Rights for exchange
purposes. If well permits cannot be obtained, the lot will no longer be deemed
a buildable lot as herein defined. The owner of record of the proposed
subdivision property shall record a covenant to run with the land which advises
the new lot owner of the requirements to be fulfilled before a building permit
can be obtained. This shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   A well permit must be obtained;
         (b)   The time it may take to obtain the permit;
         (c)   The well must be drilled;
         (d)   Water quality to be satisfactory; and
         (e)   Water quantity to be sufficient, as required by the County
Health Department, before a building permit can be obtained from the City
Inspector.
   (B)   Sewage disposal.
      (1)   Where a public sanitary sewer is within 500 feet, or is close
enough in the opinion of the County Health Officer and Planning Commission to
require a connection, the subdivider shall connect with such sanitary sewer and
provide adequate lateral lines to the property line of each lot. Such sewer
connections and subdivision sewer systems shall comply with the regulations and
standards of the city, and shall be approved by the City Engineer. Where the
construction of a city trunk sewer is required to serve the subdivision, the
subdivider shall be required to construct such trunk line in accordance with
plans and specifications approved by the city and Sewer Improvement District as
part of the normal subdivision improvements. Such trunk line shall be designed
with sufficient capacity to serve the entire drainage area, as determined by
the City Engineer, with the subdivider being entitled to reimbursement for such
oversize costs through additional sewer connection fee assessments to
developing properties within said drainage area for a period of ten years from
the date of acceptance by the city.
      (2)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not reasonably accessible, the
subdivider shall obtain approval from the County Health Officer for individual
sewage disposal for each of the lots. Subdividers shall furnish to the County
Health Officer a report of percolation tests completed on the property proposed
for subdivision in accordance with the regulations of the State Department of
Public Health governing individual sewage disposal systems. Three copies of the
subdivision plan showing appropriate contours shall accompany the report and
show thereon the location of test holes used in completing the tests.
Percolation tests shall be completed and reports prepared and signed by a
qualified registered sanitarian or a licensed engineer not in the employ of the
city. Written approval from the County Health Officer shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission before consideration of the final plat.
      (3)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not presently or reasonably
accessible, the subdivider shall, nevertheless, and not withstanding anything
herein to the contrary, be required to provide adequate lateral lines to the
property line of each lot and shall provide for a connection for said laterals
as though a sanitary sewer were reasonably accessible. Such sewer connections
and subdivision sewer systems shall comply with the “Public Works Standards and
Technical Specifications” for the city, as set out in Exhibit A, as well as the
“Public Works Standards and Technical Specifications” for the City Wastewater
Special Service District as promulgated, and as directed by the City Engineer.
Where the construction of a trunk line is required, it shall be constructed in
accordance with the terms set out in division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   Stormwater.
      (1)   The City Engineer may require the subdivider to dispose of
stormwater, if such provision is deemed necessary, and provide drainage
structures so that runoff from the subdivision does not exceed the runoff under
undeveloped or natural conditions. If easements are required across abutting
property to permit drainage of the subdivision, it shall be the responsibility
of the subdivider to acquire such easements.
      (2)   When drainage structures, such as stormwater detention facilities,
are required by the City Engineer, the city, at its option, may require the
facility to be dedicated or otherwise transferred to the city or its designate.
The city may also require the developer of the subdivision which the detention
facility serves to form a Homeowners’ Association of all homes proposed in the
subdivision. The purpose of the Association shall be to own and maintain the
detention facility in satisfactory condition as specified by the City Engineer.
In such cases, the city shall be granted an easement over the detention
facilities to guarantee such facilities will remain and be used as intended for
stormwater detention purposes.
   (D)   Street grading and surfacing. All public and private streets and
private access rights-of-way shall be graded and surfaced in accordance with
the standards and rules and regulations of the City Engineer.
   (E)   Curbs and gutters.
      (1)   Curbs and gutters shall be installed on existing and proposed
streets by the subdivider where, in the opinion of the Planning Commission and
City Engineer, they will be necessary to remove surface water, or for safety or
other reasons.
      (2)   After recommendation by the Planning Commission and City Engineer,
the City Council may waive curb and gutter improvements on non-state highway
streets in subdivisions:
         (a)   Which are located in a primarily agricultural or rural area;
         (b)   Where, because of excessive topography and other reasons, runoff
from a curb and gutter collection system could not easily and economically be
disposed of; or
         (c)   Of an estate-type nature where the average lot width is 150 feet
or more and the average lot is 40,000 square feet or more.
   (F)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be required by the Planning Commission for
reasons of safety or public welfare, except that in subdivisions where the
average lot width is 150 feet or more, sidewalks may not be required.
   (G)   Monuments. Permanent monuments shall be accurately set and established
at such points as are necessary to definitely establish all lines of the plat
except those outlining individual lots. Monuments shall be of a type specified
in the “City Public Works Standards and Technical Specifications” approved by
the City Engineer.
   (H)   Street trees. Street trees shall be planted by the subdivider when so
required by the Planning Commission and of a variety and location as approved
by the Planning Commission.
   (I)   Street signs. Street signs shall be installed by the subdivider at all
locations as designated by the City Engineer. Such signs shall be of such a
type and of such material as shall be prescribed by the City Engineer. The City
Council shall have the option to install such signs and charge such costs to
the subdivider.
   (J)   Fencing of canals, and the like. The city recognizes that canals both
provide a vital service to the community while at the same time presenting a
possible hazard to certain of our citizens. While the city does not have any
direct responsibility for the fencing and maintenance of these canals, in order
to facilitate the required maintenance and operation of these facilities, the
following procedures shall apply to all development within the city where that
development abuts a canal.
      (1)   All developers proposing to develop or subdivide adjacent to a
canal must provide written documentation to the city demonstrating that the
canal company responsible for that canal has satisfied itself that the
development will not encroach on the canal company’s maintenance right-of-way
or otherwise impede canal operations; and, evidencing agreement on the part of
the developer, to abide by the requirements of the canal company as those
requirements may effect the proposed adjacent development.
      (2)   The city will not grant final approval to any subdivision or
development without the documentation set out in division (J)(1) above having
been placed in the development file.
      (3)   Each developer will be required to record the agreement with the
canal company set out in division (J)(1) above, together with the finalized
subdivision or development plat, in the office of the County Recorder, which
plat must clearly show any canal easements or rights-of-way.
      (4)   The City Planner shall, on an automatic basis, and as a part of the
subdivision permit and approval process, provide any canal company with a site
plan of any proposed subdivision or development work adjacent to that company’s
canal.
   (K)   Staking of lots. Survey stakes shall be placed at all lot corners so
as to completely identify the lot boundaries on the ground.
   (L)   Peripheral fencing. The Planning Commission may require appropriate
type fencing along the periphery of a subdivision in an agricultural zone so as
to provide protection to adjacent farming lands from the adverse effects of
residential living, and vice versa.
   (M)   Secondary water.
      (1)   Where a subdivision is proposed covering real property which is
located within an existing culinary water district or the service area of an
existing water corporation, or public secondary water system operator or
provider, or within a water district or water corporation service area created
to serve such subdivision, the Planning Commission shall, as part of the
approval of the subdivision, require the subdivider to furnish adequate
secondary water to the subdivided parcel and to do so in conjunction with the
water provider as set out herein.
         (a)   Additionally, the Planning Commission shall, as a part of the
subdivision approval process, require the subdivider to install a secondary
water delivery system to the lots in said subdivision sufficient to conform to
the public works standards of the city or, in the case of a public secondary
water system, to the public works standards of said public water provider (when
this situation applies, the standards of the public water supplier shall be
deemed, for the purposes of this part, to be the standards of the city).
         (b)   If such water district or company files or has filed a written
statement with the City Planning Commission which specifies that the policy of
such water district or company is to the effect that its water is not to be
used for other than culinary purposes and will not permit culinary water
connections unless secondary water is provided by the subdivider, a certified
copy of the minutes of the Board of Trustees of such water district or company
showing the enactment of such policy must be furnished to the City Planning
Commission.
         (c)   Notwithstanding the above, all new development shall be provided
with connections to a public secondary water system consistent with the above
policy as follows.
            1.   All new development within one-fourth mile (1,320 feet) of a
public secondary water system is required to hook up to the system.
            2.   New development not within one-fourth mile of a public
secondary water system can choose to do one of the following:
               a.   Postpone development until a public secondary water system
is within one-fourth mile of the development; or
               b.   Develop and construct the necessary secondary waterlines
and infrastructure to hook the development to a public secondary system
according to the capital facilities plan of the system’s provider (this is
consistent with the city’s current development requirements).
            3.   Lines constructed by the developer in accordance with this
policy and that are, or become, part of the public secondary water provider
entity’s master plan shall be reimbursed by the public entity to the developer.
         (d)   SECONDARY WATER shall mean water furnished for other than
culinary purposes.
      (2)   Where the city, on behalf of a culinary water agency, requires
irrigation water to be provided to each lot in a subdivision as part of the
required improvements, the subdivider shall provide for the transfer of
irrigation water rights by either of the following methods, as determined by
the Planning Commission.
         (a)   The subdivider shall cause to be formed a Lot Owners’
Association as a non-profit corporation for the purpose of owning the
irrigation water rights or stock for the lots in the subdivision. The
subdivider shall transfer to the Association, at the time of subdivision
recording, sufficient rights or stock, as required by the irrigation agency for
the number of lots in the subdivision. The Articles of Incorporation of the
Association shall provide, in addition to the Association owning the required
water rights or shares on behalf of each and every lot owner, that each lot
owner shall automatically be a member of the Association, that he or she is
entitled to a pro rata share of irrigation water, that he or she is subject to
a water distribution schedule and procedure established by the Association, and
that he or she is responsible for his or her share of the costs of ditch and
system maintenance, and assessments, as made by the Association from time to
time.
         (b)   The subdivider shall provide the county with evidence that he or
she holds sufficient irrigation water rights or shares for all of the lots in
the subdivision. At the time of recording the approved subdivision plat, he or
she shall record a covenant to run with the land in the subdivision,
acknowledging that he or she holds sufficient irrigation water rights or shares
for the lots in the subdivision, that these rights or shares will not be
disposed of except to the lots in the subdivision, and that with the sale of
each lot, he or she will transfer, at no cost, the required water rights or
shares needed to properly irrigate the lot to the lot purchaser who is to be
responsible for the proper use of the water as outlined in the irrigation water
district or company’s distribution schedule and procedures.
   (N)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants of a type recommended by the County Fire
Service Area and the City Engineer shall be required in all subdivisions of
four lots or greater in number. The County Fire Service Area shall recommend
the location of all fire hydrants in each subdivision, however, general
locations shall be one hydrant for each 500 feet of street length.
   (O)   Private land drains.
      (1)   Where a subdivider finds it necessary to install private subsurface
land drains in a subdivision to lower the groundwater table in order to receive
County Health Department approval for the operation of septic tank drainfields
in certain lots, he or she shall be required to record a deed covenant and
restriction to run with the land stating that the city accepts no liability or
responsibility for maintenance, repair, replacement, operation, or use of any
consequence resulting from the operation or failure of operation of said land
drains.
      (2)   The deed covenant shall provide that the owners of lots serviced by
the land drains shall bear an equal responsibility to share all costs relative
to the maintenance, repair, or replacement of said drains and also place said
owners on notice that no building permit will be issued for said lots until the
land drains have been constructed and found to function properly by the County
Health Department.
      (3)   The design of private subsurface land drains shall be approved by
both the City Engineer and the County Health Department.
(Ord. 3-92, passed 1-15-1992; Ord. 21-92, passed 12-16-1992; Ord. 1-96, passed
2-7-1996; Ord. 9-98, passed 5-6-1998; Ord. 11-2000, passed 11-15-2000)
§ 156.092 GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In lieu of actual installation of the improvements required by this
chapter, the subdivider may guarantee the installation thereof by one of the
methods specified as follows:
      (1)   The subdivider may furnish and file with the City Council a bond
with corporate surety, in an amount equal to the future cost of the
installation of the improvements at the termination of the bonding period, as
estimated by the City Engineer, to assure the installation of such improvements
within a two-year, or shorter or longer, period if otherwise established by the
City Council from the approval date of the subdivision plat by the City
Council, which bond shall be approved by the City Council; and
      (2)   The subdivider may deposit in escrow, with an escrow holder
approved by the City Council, an amount of money equal to the future cost of
the improvements at the termination of the escrow period estimated by the City
Engineer, as foresaid, under an escrow agreement to assure the installation of
said improvements within a two-year, or shorter or longer, period if otherwise
established by the City Council, from the approval date of the subdivision plat
by the City Council, and shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   The documents aforesaid shall be approved as to form by the City
Attorney. The Planning Commission is authorized to prescribe by administrative
ruleS or regulations, forms, and procedures to ensure the orderly, regular, and
efficient processing of applications for the approval of a proposed subdivision
and the guarantee of improvements in strict compliance with the requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Whenever the subdivider develops a subdivision a portion at a time,
such development shall be in an orderly manner and in such a way that the
required improvements will be made available for the full, effective, and
practical use and enjoyment thereof by the lessees or grantees of any of the
lands subdivided within the time hereinbefore specified.
   (D)   The City Council is authorized and directed from time to time, at the
request of the subdivider or his or her successors in interest, to execute a
release of record from the burden of the aforesaid bond, or escrow agreement,
when all obligations as to which have been fully performed by the installation
of the improvements.
(Ord. 3-92, passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.093 INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Engineer, Building Inspector, and County Health Officer shall
inspect, or cause to be inspected, all buildings, structures, streets, fire
hydrants, and water supply and sewage disposal systems in the course of
construction, installation, repair, and the like. Excavation for fire hydrants,
water, and sewer mains, and laterals shall not be covered over or back filled
until such installations shall have been approved by the City Engineer. If any
such installation is covered before being inspected and approved, it shall be
uncovered after notice to uncover has been issued to the responsible person by
the City Engineer.
(Ord. 3-92, passed 1-15-1992)
ENFORCEMENT AND PERMITS
§ 156.105 SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR PERMIT.
   The City Building Inspector shall not issue any permit unless the plans for
the proposed erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, or use fully
conform to all provisions of this chapter. No city officer shall issue any
permit or license for the use of any building, structure, or land when such
land is a part of a subdivision, as defined herein, until such subdivision has
been approved and recorded in the County Recorder’s Office. Any license or
permit issued in conflict with this chapter shall be null and void.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
§ 156.106 SUBDIVISION PROCESSING; SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      ENGINEERING CHECKING AND IMPROVEMENT INSPECTION. The work performed by
the City Engineer in checking the plans for road construction and utility
installation as proposed by the subdivider and the in-site inspection of the
actual construction to ensure conformance with city standards.
      PLANNING PROCESSING. The procedure followed by the staff of the Planning
Commission in accordance with the city subdivision ordinance in checking and
reviewing proposed subdivisions leading to final approval by the city.
      RURAL SUBDIVISIONS. Subdivisions in a primarily agricultural or rural
area and in which the requirements of curbs, gutters, and sidewalks have been
waived by the city in accordance with § 156.091.
   (B)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   A subdivider proposing a subdivision in the city shall deposit with
the city a non-refundable fee for planning processing at the time of submission
of the preliminary plan to help defray the planning costs incurred by the city.
      (2)   The subdivider shall also deposit with the city a non-refundable
fee for engineering checking and improvement inspection at the time of final
approval of the subdivision by the city to help defray the engineering costs
incurred by the city.
      (3)   Both of these fees shall be in accordance with the West Haven City
Consolidated Fee Schedule. The West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule is
hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992; Ord. 26-2023, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000 or
imprisonment in the County Jail for a period not exceeding six months, or by
both fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 3-92 passed 1-15-1992)
CHAPTER 157: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Title
   
157.002   Purpose
   
157.003   Interpretations
   
157.004   Definitions
Administration
   
157.015   Building Official to enforce
   
157.016   Permits to comply with code
   
157.017   Powers and duties of Building Official
   
157.018   Fees for processing zoning petitions and planned residential unit
developments
   
157.019   Licensing
   
157.020   Validity
Appeal Authority; Hearing Officer
   
157.035   Appointment, term, removal
   
157.036   Organization and meetings
   
157.037   Appeals
   
157.038   Stay of proceedings pending appeal
   
157.039   Notice of meeting on appeal; rights of appearance
   
157.040   Powers of Hearing Officer on appeal
   
157.041   Decision of appeal
   
157.042   Acts necessary for reversal
   
157.043   Judicial review of Appeal Authority’s decision
   
157.044   Time limitation of variance
   
157.045   Filing fee
   
157.046   Compensation of Appeal Authority
   
157.047   Definitions
   
157.048   Additional changes
Zones and Districts
   
157.060   Boundaries
   
157.061   Height-limiting zones
   
157.062   Boundaries of zones
   
157.063   Maps of districts
   
157.064   Title of zoning map
   
157.065   Filing of subchapter and maps
   
157.066   Rules for locating boundaries
   
157.067   Conditions to zoning map amendment
R-3 Zone
   
157.080   Purpose and intent
   
157.081   Permitted uses
   
157.082   Conditional uses
   
157.083   Site development standards
   
157.084   Sign regulations
   
157.085   Regulations for temporary storage units, containers, and structures
   
157.086   Enforcement and fines
RE-15, RE-20 Zones (Residential)
   
157.100   Purpose and intent
   
157.101   Permitted uses
   
157.102   Permitted uses requiring 40,000 square foot minimum lot area
   
157.103   Permitted uses requiring five acre minimum lot area
   
157.104   Conditional uses
   
157.105   Site development standards
   
157.106   Sign regulations
   
157.107   Regulations for temporary storage units, containers, and structures
   
157.108   Enforcement and fines
R-2 Zone (Residential Low-Moderate Density)
   
157.120   Purpose and intent
   
157.121   Permitted uses
   
157.122   Conditional uses
   
157.123   Building lot requirements
   
157.124   Location of structures
   
157.125   Maximum structure height
   
157.126   Off-street parking
   
157.127   Permitted signs
   
157.128   Regulations for temporary storage units, containers, and structures
   
157.129   Enforcement and fines
R-2.5 Zone (Residential)
   
157.140   Purpose and intent
   
157.141   Permitted uses
   
157.142   Conditional uses
   
157.143   Building lot requirements
   
157.144   Location of structures
   
157.145   Maximum structure height
   
157.146   Off-street parking
   
157.147   Permitted signs
   
157.148   Regulations for temporary storage units, containers, and structures
   
157.149   Enforcement and fines
R-1 Zone (Residential Low Density)
   
157.160   Purpose and intent
   
157.161   Permitted uses
   
157.162   Conditional uses
   
157.163   Building lot requirements
   
157.164   Location of structures
   
157.165   Maximum structure height
   
157.166   Off-street parking
   
157.167   Permitted signs
   
157.168   Regulations for temporary storage units, containers, and structures
   
157.169   Enforcement and fines
R-4 Zone (Residential Moderate to Higher Density)
   
157.180   Purpose and intent
   
157.181   Permitted uses
   
157.182   Conditional uses
   
157.183   Building lot requirements
   
157.184   Location of structures
   
157.185   Maximum structure height
   
157.186   Off-street parking
   
157.187   Permitted signs
   
157.188   Regulations for temporary storage units, containers, and structures
   
157.189   Enforcement and fines
S-1G Zone (Suburban Residential Gravel)
   
157.200   Use regulations
   
157.201   Area, width, yard, and height regulations
S-2G Zone (Suburban Residential Gravel)
   
157.215   Use regulations
   
157.216   Area, width, yard, and height regulations
A-1 Zone (Agricultural)
   
157.230   Purpose and intent
   
157.231   Agriculture preferred use
   
157.232   Permitted uses
   
157.233   Permitted use requiring two acre minimum lot area
   
157.234   Permitted uses requiring five acre minimum lot area
   
157.235   Conditional uses
   
157.236   Site development standards
   
157.237   Subdividing lots in a platted subdivision
   
157.238   Sign regulations
   
157.239   Regulations for temporary storage units, containers, and structures
   
157.240   Enforcement and fines
A-2 Zone (Agricultural)
   
157.255   Purpose and intent
   
157.256   Agriculture preferred use
   
157.257   Permitted uses
   
157.258   Permitted uses requiring five acre minimum lot area
   
157.259   Conditional uses
   
157.260   Site development standards
   
157.261   Subdividing lots in a platted subdivision
   
157.262   Permitted signs
   
157.263   Regulations for temporary storage units, containers, and structures
   
157.264   Enforcement and fines
Residential Mobile/Manufactured Home Park Zone (RMHP)
   
157.275   Purpose and intent
   
157.276   Permitted uses
   
157.277   Site development standards
   
157.278   Sign regulations
C-1, C-2, C-3 Zones (Commercial)
   
157.290   Purpose and intent
   
157.291   Site development standards
   
157.292   Sign regulations
   
157.293   Special regulations
   
157.294   Uses
   
157.295   Regulations for temporary storage units, containers, and structures
   
157.296   Enforcement and fines
Mixed Use/Medium/Low Density Residential, Commercial Zone
   
157.310   Purpose; definition
   
157.311   Density; districts
   
157.312   Mixed-Use rezone
   
157.313   Mixed-Use development agreement
   
157.314   Site development standards
   
157.315   Commercial overlay and commercial uses in Mixed-Use
   
157.316   Regulations for temporary storage units, containers, and structures
   
157.317   Enforcement and fines
M-1 Zone (Manufacturing)
   
157.330   Purpose and intent
   
157.331   Permitted uses
   
157.332   Conditional uses
   
157.333   Site development standards
   
157.334   Sign regulations
   
157.335   Storage unit restrictions
   
157.336   Regulations for temporary storage units, containers, and structures
M-2 Zone (Manufacturing)
   
157.350   Purpose and intent
   
157.351   Permitted uses
   
157.352   Conditional uses
   
157.353   Site development standards
   
157.354   Sign regulations
   
157.355   Storage unit restrictions
   
157.356   Regulations for temporary storage units, containers, and structures
O-1 Zone (Open Space)
   
157.370   Purpose and intent
   
157.371   Permitted uses
   
157.372   Conditional uses
   
157.373   Site development standards
   
157.374   Sign regulations
   
157.375   Regulations for temporary storage units, containers, and structures
   
157.376   Enforcement and fines
FP-1 Zone (Floodplain Overlay)
   
157.390   Purpose and intent
   
157.391   Permitted uses
   
157.392   Conditional uses
   
157.393   Site development standards
   
157.394   Sign regulations
   
157.395   Definitions
PH Zone (Residential Patio Home Zone)
   
157.410   Purpose
   
157.411   Permitted uses
   
157.412   Conditional uses
   
157.413   Building lot requirements
   
157.414   Location of structures
   
157.415   Zero lot lines
   
157.416   Maximum structure height
   
157.417   Landscaping
   
157.418   Off-street parking
   
157.419   Permitted signs
Planned Residential Unit Development (PRUD)
   
157.430   Definitions
   
157.431   Purpose and intent
   
157.432   Permitted zones
   
157.433   Use requirements
   
157.434   Area regulations
   
157.435   General requirements
   
157.436   Building permit issuance
   
157.437   Time limit
   
157.438   Submission of application
   
157.439   Planning Commission and City Council consideration and action
   
157.440   Procedures for processing a planned residential unit development
(PRUD)
   
157.441   Master development agreement (MDA) requirements
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)
   
157.455   Definition
   
157.456   Purpose and intent
   
157.457   Owner occupied
   
157.458   Dwelling unit occupancy
   
157.459   Zones
   
157.460   Number of accessory dwelling units
   
157.461   Location and type
   
157.462   Appearance
   
157.463   Size
   
157.464   Lot coverage
   
157.465   Building entrances
   
157.466   Address
   
157.467   Parking
   
157.468   Separate living areas
   
157.469   Building code
   
157.470   Utility meters
   
157.471   Interior access
   
157.472   Not intended for sale
   
157.473   Accessory dwelling unit permit
   
157.474   Exceptions to standards
   
157.475   Failure to complete and obtain a land use permit
   
157.476   Home occupation businesses
   
157.477   Reserved
   
157.478   Manufactured homes
   
157.479   Use regulations
   
157.480   Area of accessory buildings
Residential Short-Term Rental (STR)
   
157.495   Purpose and intent
   
157.496   Residential short term rental
   
157.497   Business license; room tax
   
157.498   General standards and requirements
   
157.499   Violations
   
157.500   Enforcement and fines
   
157.501   Definition
Conditional Uses
   
157.515   Purpose and intent
   
157.516   Authority
   
157.517   Conditional use permit
   
157.518   Review procedure
   
157.519   Planning Commission action
   
157.520   Conditional use standards
   
157.521   Notice of decision
   
157.522   Appeal of decision
   
157.523   Effect of approval
   
157.524   Amendment
   
157.525   Transfer of permit
   
157.526   Enforcement of permit requirements
   
157.527   Periodic review
   
157.528   Revocation
   
157.529   Expiration
Sexually-Oriented Businesses
   
157.540   Purpose and intent
   
157.541   Location of businesses; restrictions
   
157.542   Effect on nonconforming businesses
   
157.543   Signs
   
157.544   Definitions
Standards for Single-Family Dwellings
   
157.555   Codes and standards
   
157.556   Additional requirements
Cluster Subdivision Special Provisions
   
157.570   Intent; definitions
   
157.571   General regulations
   
157.572   Lot area regulations
   
157.573   Width, yard, height and parking regulations
   
157.574   Open space substitution
   
157.575   Open space preservation
   
157.576   Procedure
   
157.577   Master development agreement (MDA) requirements
Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations
   
157.590   Effect of subchapter
   
157.591   Public/private road standards
   
157.592   Lots in separate ownership
   
157.593   Yard space for one building only
   
157.594   Every dwelling to be on a lot
   
157.595   Separately-owned lots; reduced yards
   
157.596   Sale or lease of required space
   
157.597   Creation of lots below minimum space requirements
   
157.598   Providing for discretionary density bonuses
   
157.599   Yards to be unobstructed; projections permitted into required yards
   
157.600   Wall, fence, or hedge may be maintained
   
157.601   Area of accessory structures
   
157.602   Additional height allowed
   
157.603   Exceptions to height limitations
   
157.604   Minimum height of main buildings
   
157.605   Additional accessory structure requirements
   
157.606   Clear view of intersecting streets
   
157.607   Animals and fowls
   
157.608   Water and sewage requirements
   
157.609   Effect of official map
   
157.610   Signs and lighting
   
157.611   Lots and dwellings on private rights-of-way; special provisions
   
157.612   Required building setback from designated collector or arterial
street
   
157.613   Group dwelling special regulations
   
157.614   Zero-side yards
   
157.615   Dish antennas
   
157.616   Towers
   
157.617   Flag lots
   
157.618   Mailbox regulations
Parking and Loading Space, Vehicle Traffic, and Drive-Through Regulations
   
157.630   Purpose and applicability
   
157.631   Parking space for residential, commercial, institutional,
recreational and other land uses
   
157.632   Drive-through design standards
   
157.633   Drop-off and pick-up lanes
   
157.634   Adjustments for unusual and unique conditions
   
157.635   Parking space/lot design and maintenance
   
157.636   Off-street truck loading space
   
157.637   Business requiring automobile access
   
157.638   Vehicular traffic to Commercial or Manufacturing Zones
   
157.639   Regulations governing accessory vehicle off-street parking within
required side yard areas
   
157.640   Off-site improvements required
Public Buildings and Public Utility Substations and Structures
   
157.655   Location
   
157.656   Minimum lot area; utility substations
   
157.657   Minimum yards; utility substations
   
157.658   Street access; utility substations
   
157.659   Minimum lot area; public buildings
   
157.660   Minimum yards; public buildings
   
157.661   Width of lot; public buildings
   
157.662   Frontage; public buildings
Airport Zones and Height Regulations
   
157.675   Height limits
   
157.676   Use restrictions
   
157.677   Hazard markings and lighting
   
157.678   Most restrictive limitation prevails
   
157.679   Airport master plan provisions
Land Use Permit, Building Permit, and Certificate of Occupancy
   
157.690   Building permit required
   
157.691   Certificate of occupancy required
   
157.692   Changes to building permit issuance and management process
Petitioner Requirements; Rezoning Procedure Development Agreement; Conditional
Zoning
   
157.705   Purpose and intent
   
157.706   Development to be linked to rezoning a city policy
   
157.707   Petition procedure
   
157.708   Concept development plan
   
157.709   Concept development plan attached to rezoning
   
157.710   Procedure for processing development proposals
   
157.711   Development to take place only in accordance with approved plans
   
157.712   Revision to original zoning designation
   
157.713   Development agreement
   
157.714   Development agreement to constitute to covenant running with the land
   
157.715   City zoning alternative actions
Design Review
   
157.730   Purpose
   
157.731   Application; review and approval
   
157.732   Exceptions
   
157.733   Standards of review
   
157.734   Design requirements
   
157.735   Agreement for improvements
   
157.736   Time limitations on approval
   
157.737   Modification
Sign Regulations
   
157.755   Purpose and intent
   
157.756   Enforcement; appeals
   
157.757   Definitions
   
157.758   Prohibited signs
   
157.759   Permitted signs
   
157.760   Application process
   
157.761   Violations
Outdoor Lighting
   
157.775   Purpose and intent
   
157.776   Definitions
   
157.777   General requirements
   
157.778   Commercial and multi-residential lighting
   
157.779   Residential lighting; new construction
   
157.780   Existing lighting; commercial and residential
   
157.781   Special standards
   
157.782   Enforcement
   
157.783   Examples of light shielding
   
157.784   Examples of light trespassing
   
157.785   Lumen conversion chart
Motor Vehicle Access
   
157.800   Business requiring access
   
157.801   Roadways and curbs
   
157.802   Location of gasoline pumps
   
157.803   Location of service station canopies
Non-Conforming Buildings and Uses
   
157.815   Maintenance permitted
   
157.816   Repairs, alterations
   
157.817   Additions and enlargements
   
157.818   Alteration where parking insufficient
   
157.819   Moving nonconforming buildings
   
157.820   Restoration of damaged buildings
   
157.821   One-year vacancy or abandonment
   
157.822   Continuation of use
   
157.823   Occupation within one year
   
157.824   Change of use
   
157.825   Expansion of use permitted
   
157.826   Nonconforming use of land
Mobile Home Parks
   
157.840   Title
   
157.841   Purpose and intent
   
157.842   Definitions
   
157.843   Mobile home permit and application to construct or improve
   
157.844   Licensing
   
157.845   General requirements
   
157.846   Special limitations and provisions
   
157.847   Sanitation requirements
   
157.848   Location and general layout of mobile home parks
   
157.849   Electrical service, wiring, fuel, and fire protection
   
157.850   Administration and enforcement
   
157.851   Public camps
Animal Keeping
   
157.865   Animal keeping
   
157.866   Animals for animal keeping
   
157.867   [Reserved]
   
157.868   Beekeeping
Home Occupation
   
157.880   Purpose and intent
   
157.881   Use
   
157.882   Required conditions
   
157.883   Fees
Day Care Residential
   
157.895   Purpose and intent
   
157.896   Use
   
157.897   Required conditions
   
157.898   Other
   
157.899   Fees
Preschool Residential
   
157.910   Purpose and intent
   
157.911   Use
   
157.912   Required conditions
   
157.913   Other
   
157.914   Fees
Personal Wireless Telecommunications Facilities
   
157.925   Purpose and intent
   
157.926   Definitions
   
157.927   Policy statement
   
157.928   Industry site selection criteria
   
157.929   City site selection criteria
   
157.930   Priorities
   
157.931   Co-location
   
157.932   Design criteria
   
157.933   Other permitted uses
   
157.934   Inspection requirements
   
157.935   Landscaping/screening
   
157.936   Non-use; abandonment
   
157.937   Application requirements
   
157.938   Third-party review
   
157.939   Remedies
Residential Facilities for Elderly Persons; Persons With Disabilities; Other
Facilities
   
157.950   Purpose and intent
   
157.951   Scope
   
157.952   Definitions
   
157.953   Permitted uses
   
157.954   Conditional uses
   
157.955   Development standards
Timeshares
   
157.970   Definitions
   
157.971   Use regulations
   
157.972   Establishing timeshares
Landscaping Standards and Requirements
   
157.985   Purpose and intent
   
157.986   Definitions
   
157.987   Applicability
   
157.988   Commercial, industrial, multi-family and public facility development
standards
   
157.989   Single-family residential
   
157.990   Irrigation design standards
   
157.991   Restrictive covenants requiring turf or plant material with uniform
overhead spray irrigation
   
157.992   Completion of improvements
   
157.993   Tree and shrub regulations for public ways and places
   
157.994   Supplementary standards
   
157.995   Prohibited watering practices
   
157.996   Enforcement
 
   
157.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Zoning Ordinance of West Haven, Utah.”
(Prior Code, § 2.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.002 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the
health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and welfare of the
present and future inhabitants of the city, including, amongst other things,
the lessening of congestion in the streets or roads, securing from fire and
other dangers, providing adequate light and air, classification of land uses
and distribution of land development and utilization, protection of the tax
base, securing economy in governmental expenditures, fostering the city’s
agricultural and other industries, and the protection of both urban and non-
urban development.
(Prior Code, § 2.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.003 INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying this chapter, the requirements are
minimum.
   (B)   Uses not listed are not allowed as a conditional use.
(Prior Code, § 2.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ACRE. A parcel of land containing 43,560 square feet, regardless of the
actual configuration of the parcel.
   AGRICULTURE. The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture,
and gardening, but not including the keeping or raising of domestic animals and
fowl, except household pets, and not including any agricultural industry or
business such as fruit-packing plants, fur farms, animal hospitals, or similar
uses.
   AIRPORT. Any area of land or water designed and set aside for the landing
and taking off of aircraft.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or natural growth, or use of land, which
obstructs or restricts the airspace required for the safe flight of aircraft in
landing, taking off, or maneuvering at, or in the vicinity of, an airport, or
is otherwise hazardous to such landing, taking off, or maneuvering of aircraft.
   AIRPORT LANDING AREA. The specially-prepared surface within the boundaries
of an airport designed for aircraft landing and taking off operations.
   AIRPORT REFERENCE POINT. The existing control tower or point upon which such
a tower would normally be erected on an airport.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare less than 26 feet wide.
   ANIMAL. Any and all types of livestock, including all those animals for
family food production, dogs and cats, and all other subhuman creatures, both
domestic and wild, male and female, singular and plural.
   ANIMAL KEEPING. The keeping of, and caring for, animals.
   ANIMALS FOR FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION. Any domesticated animal commonly kept
for utility or food production rather than pleasure, and includes, but is not
limited to: cattle, sheep, goats, mules, burros, horses, chickens, geese,
ducks, turkeys, llamas, swine, or similar animals.
   APARTMENT COURT. Any building or group of buildings which contain dwelling
units and also satisfies the definition of a TOURIST COURT, as defined in this
chapter.
   APARTMENT HOTEL. Any building which contains dwelling units and satisfies
the definition of a HOTEL as defined in this chapter.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. A multiple dwelling; see DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.
   APIARY. Any place where one or more colonies of bees are located.
   APIARY EQUIPMENT. Hives, supers, frames, veils, gloves, or other equipment
used to handle or manipulate bees, honey, wax, or hives.
   AUTOMOBILE RECYCLING (PARTS DISMANTLING). A process carried out within a
completely-enclosed building of systematically disassembling or dismantling
automobile vehicles for their component parts, which are cleaned, refurbished,
catalogued, and shelf-stored as inventory for the purpose of resale. It
includes the storage, both inside and outside the building, for disassembly.
The process also includes the immediate removal from the site of the vehicle
body hulk and other waste materials.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. See JUNKYARD.
   BASEMENT. A story partly underground and having at least one-half of its
height above grade. A BASEMENT shall be counted as a story, for purposes of
height measurements.
   BED AND BREAKFAST DWELLING. An owner-occupied dwelling in which not more
than two rooms are rented out by the day, offering overnight lodgings to
travelers, and where one or more meals are provided by the host family, the
price of which may be included in the room rate.
   BED AND BREAKFAST HOTEL. An owner- or host-occupied building in which at
least six, but not more than 20, guest rooms are rented out by the day offering
overnight lodgings accommodations and service to travelers with one or more
meals; provided, the price of which is included in the daily room rate.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. An owner or host family occupied dwelling in which
not more than five sleeping rooms are rented out by the day, offering overnight
lodging to travelers with one or more meals provided by the host family, the
price of which is included in the room rate.
   BEE. The common honey bee, Apis mellifera, at any state of development, but
not including the African honeybee, Apis mellifera scutellata species, or any
hybrid thereof.
   BEEKEEPER. A person who owns or has charge of one or more colonies of bees.
   BEEKEEPING. To hold a colony of bees in a hive for pollination, honey
production, study, or a similar purpose.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building with not more than five guest rooms where, for
compensation, meals are provided for at least five, but not more than 15,
persons.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
housing or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A detached subordinate building clearly incidental to,
and located upon, the same lot occupied by the main building.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or
to a point midway between the lowest part of the eaves or cornice and the ridge
of a pitch or hip roof.
   BUILDING, MAIN. The principal building, or one of the principal buildings,
upon a lot, or the building, or one of the principal buildings, housing the
principal use upon the lot.
   BUILDING, PUBLIC. A building owned and operated, or owned and intended to be
operated, by a public agency of the United States of America, of the state, or
any of its subdivisions.
   CABARET. A business establishment open to public patronage where food and
drink is prepared, served, or offered for sale or sold for human consumption on
or off the premises, and whose patrons may be entertained by performers who
sing or dance or perform theatrical acts, and where the patrons may or may not
dance. The term CABARET is inclusive of nightclubs. Such establishments shall
be limited to one per lineal mile.
   CARPORT. A private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the
purposes of this chapter, a CARPORT shall be subject to all of the regulations
prescribed for a private garage.
   CELLAR. A story having more than one-half of its height below grade. A
CELLAR shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of height measurement.
   CLUSTER SUBDIVISION. A subdivision of land in which the residential lots
have areas less than the minimum lot area of the zone in which the subdivision
is located but which meets the requirements of zoning ordinances of the city.
   CONDOMINIUM RENTAL APARTMENT (CONDO-TEL). A condominium residential project
in which the units, when not occupied by the owner, may be placed in a
management rental pool for rent as transient living quarters similar to a motel
operation. Because of the transient rental characteristics, a CONDOMINIUM
RENTAL APARTMENT is classified as a use category separate and distinct from a
condominium dwelling unit.
   CORRAL. A fenced enclosure used for the close confinement of large animals
with hay or grain feeding in contrast to pasture feeding.
   COURT. An unoccupied space on a lot, other than a yard, designed to be
partially surrounded by group dwellings.
   DAIRY. A commercial establishment for the manufacture or processing of dairy
products.
   DAY CARE CENTER. Any building or structure other than an occupied residence
furnishing care, supervision, and guidance for three or more children
unaccompanied by a parent or guardian for periods of less than 24 hours per
day, or, an occupied residence which furnishes care, supervision, and guidance
for six or more children unaccompanied by parent or guardian for periods of
less than 24 hours per day. OCCUPIED RESIDENCE shall refer to being used as a
residence by a family. The term DAY CARE CENTER is inclusive of kindergartens,
preschools, child day care, nursery schools, and all other similar facilities
specializing in the education and/or operated by the public school system. (See
§§ 157.85 through 157.899, Ord. 03-2006, and Ord. 05-2006.)
   DWELLING. Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed for use for
residential purposes, except hotels, apartment hotels, boarding houses, lodging
houses, tourist courts, and apartment courts.
   DWELLING, FOUR-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
four families, the structure having only four dwelling units.
   DWELLING, GROUP. Two or more dwellings arranged around a court.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof used and/or
arranged or designed to be occupied by more than four families, including
apartment houses and apartment hotels, but not including tourist courts.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied
exclusively by one family, the structure having only one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, THREE-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
three families, the structure having only three dwelling units.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two
families, the structure having only two dwelling units.
   DWELLING, UNIT. One or more rooms in a dwelling, apartment hotel, or
apartment motel designed for or occupied by one family for living or sleeping
purposes, and having one, but not more than one, kitchen or set of fixed
cooking facilities, other than hot plates or other portable cooking units.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. A public elementary or secondary school, seminary,
parochial school, or private educational institution having a curriculum
similar to that ordinarily given in grades one through 12 in the public school
system. The term EDUCATION INSTITUTION, for the purpose of this chapter, does
not include post high school educational facilities.
   ESTABLISHED AIRPORT ELEVATION. The elevation in feet above mean sea level of
the highest point of the land area of an airport.
   EXOTIC PET. A rare or unusual non-protected animal species that is
classified by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and under state law as
approved for keeping as a pet, unless otherwise restricted by this chapter.
Permitted EXOTIC PETS only include those species commercially available at
typical retail pet shops in the area and may include, but not limited to: non-
venomous snakes, non-poisonous small reptiles, non-poisonous amphibians,
tortoises, ferrets, exotic birds, sugar gliders, degus, hedgehogs, domesticated
silver foxes, and non-poisonous insects. EXOTIC PETS do not include any type of
pigs, including potbelly pigs or miniature pigs.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption, plus
domestic servants employed for service on the premises, or a group of bachelors
or bachelorettes of not more than four persons, who need not be so related,
living together as a single nonprofit housekeeping unit.
   FLYAWAY BARRIER. A solid fence or hedge used in beekeeping at least six feet
in height extending ten feet from the hive in each direction. It is used to
force bees to fly at least six feet above ground over neighboring property
lines.
   FRONTAGE. All property fronting one side of the street between intersecting
or intercepting streets or between a street and a right-of-way, waterway, and
dead end street, or political subdivision boundary, measured along the street
line. The end of a stub street shall not be construed to be frontage on a
street. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary of the
frontage on the side of the street which it intercepts.
   FRONT LOT LINE. The property line of the lot toward which the front line of
a main building faces or may face, and which abuts a public dedicated street, a
right-of-way, or fee title access strip approved by the Planning Commission as
a special exception, or a street made public by right of use. (Also see §
157.617 for further flag lot regulations.)
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed or used for the storage of
not more than four automobiles owned and used by the occupants of the building
to which it is accessory and in which no business, commercial service, or
industry is carried on; provided, that on a lot occupied by a multiple
dwelling, the PRIVATE GARAGE may be designed and used for the storage of one
and one-half times as many automobiles as there are dwelling units in the
multiple-dwelling. A GARAGE shall be considered part of a dwelling if the
garage and dwelling have a roof or wall in common. On any lot or parcel of land
on one acre or more in an “A” zoning, there may be adequate storage space
provided for vehicles used accessory to the agriculture use of the lot. A
PRIVATE GARAGE may not be used for storage of more than one truck for each
family dwelling upon the premises, and no such truck shall exceed two and one-
half tons capacity.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building, or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring, selling, or
storing motor-driven vehicles.
   GARBAGE. Any non-hazardous, non-medical solid waste.
   GRADE.
      (1)   For buildings adjoining one street only, the elevation of the
sidewalk at the center of that wall adjoining the street.
      (2)   For buildings adjoining more than one street, the average of the
elevations of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls adjoining streets.
      (3)   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the ground (finished surface) adjacent to the exterior walls of the
building. All walls approximately parallel to, and not more than five feet
from, a street line are to be considered as adjoining a street.
   GUEST HOUSE. A separate dwelling structure located on a lot with one or more
main dwelling structures and used for the housing of guests or servants and not
rented, leased, or sold separate from the rental, lease, or sale of the main
dwelling.
   HANDICAPPED PERSON. A person who has a severe, chronic disability
attributable to a mental or physical impairment, or to a combination of mental
and physical impairments, which is likely to continue indefinitely, and which
results in a substantial functional limitation in three or more of the
following areas of major life activity: self-care, receptive and expressive
language, learning, mobility, self-direction, capacity for independent living,
or economic self-sufficiency; and who requires a combination or sequence of
special interdisciplinary or generic care, treatment, or other services that
are individually planned and coordinated to allow the person to function in,
and contribute to, a residential neighborhood.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A solid waste, or combination of solid wastes, which,
because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious
characteristics, may cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in
mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible
illness, or may pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transferred, disposed of,
or otherwise managed.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. A facility approved by the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) for the treatment, permanent storage, or disposal of
hazardous waste in any fashion so as to prevent contaminants in excess of EPA
guidelines from migrating off the facility or into the environment.
   HIVE. A frame hive, box hive, box, barrel, log, gum skep, or other
artificial or natural receptacle which may house bees.
   HOME OCCUPATION. The use of a portion of a dwelling as an office, studio, or
workroom for small occupations which are customarily conducted in the home and
which are clearly incidental and accessory to the primary use of the dwelling
for living purposes, and which also meet all the conditions and requirements of
§§
157.880 through
157.883. (See Ord. 45-2020 found in §§
157.880 through
157.883.)
   HOTEL. A building designed for, or occupied as, the more or less temporary
abiding place of 16 or more individuals who are, for compensation, lodged, with
or without meals, and in which no provision is made for cooking in any
individual room or suite.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS. Animals or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house, and kept
for company or pleasure, such as dogs, cats, and canaries, but not including a
sufficient number of dogs to constitute a KENNEL, as defined in this chapter.
   INCINERATOR. Any enclosed device using controlled flame combustion for the
incineration, burning, or reduction of non-hazardous and/or non-medical solid
waste.
   JUNKYARD. The use of any lot, portion of lot, or tract of land for the
storage of salvage materials, keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap
material, or for the dismantling, demolition, or abandonment of automobiles, or
other vehicles, or machinery or parts thereof; providing, that this definition
shall not be deemed to include such uses which are clearly accessory and
incidental to any agricultural use permitted in the zone.
   KENNEL. The land or buildings used in the keeping of four or more dogs at
least four months old.
   LIVESTOCK FEED YARD. A commercial operation on a parcel of land where
livestock are kept in corrals or yards for extended periods of time at a
density which permits little movement and where all feed is provided for the
purpose of fattening or maintaining the condition of livestock prior to their
shipment to a stockyard for sale and the like.
   LOCKOUT SLEEPING ROOM. A sleeping room in a dwelling, dwelling unit,
condominium unit, or condominium rental apartment with separate or common
access and toilet facilities, but no cooking facilities except a hotplate,
which may be rented independently of the main unit for nightly rental by
locking interior access. A LOCKOUT SLEEPING ROOM shall not be sold
independently from the main dwelling unit.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
five or more, but not exceeding 15, persons.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied, or capable of being occupied, by a permitted
use, building, or group of buildings (main or accessory), together with such
yards, open spaces, parking spaces, and other areas required by this chapter,
the subdivision ordinance, and the Hillside Development Ordinance of the city,
having frontage upon a public street, approved private street, a right-of-way,
or fee title access strip approved by the Planning Commission. Except for group
dwellings and guest houses, not more than one dwelling structure shall occupy
any one lot. (Also see § 157.617 for further flag lot regulations.)
   LOT CORNER. A lot abutting on two intersecting or intercepting streets,
where the interior angle of intersection or interception does not exceed 135
degrees.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSE. A mobile home and/or pre-sectionalized or modular unit
house constructed off-site after June 16, 1976, to H.U.D. code standards for
later permanent placement on a building lot or other approved location
   MEDICAL WASTE. Any solid waste which is generated in the diagnosis,
treatment, or immunization of human beings or animals, in research pertaining
thereto, or in the production of testing of biological.
   MEDICAL WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility designed to treat, permanently
store, incinerate, and/or otherwise destroy medical waste in any manner within
EPA guidelines, or in harmony with prevailing health codes and other local
restrictions.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable living unit constructed prior to June 16, 1976, or
after June 16, 1976, and which does not meet H.U.D. code standards, and
designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, attached
wheels, or low-boy, suitable for year-round occupancy and containing a flush
toilet, sleeping accommodations, a tub or shower-bath, kitchen facilities,
plumbing, and electrical connections provided for attachment to appropriate
external systems. Pre-sectionalized, modular, or prefabricated housing not
placed on permanent foundations shall be classified as a MOBILE HOME whether or
not such units meet the city’s building and housing codes.
   MOTOR HOME. A self-propelled vehicular unit, other than a mobile home,
primarily designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and
vacation use, which is either self-propelled or is mounted on, or pulled by,
another vehicle, including, but not limited to, a travel trailer, a camping
trailer, a truck camper, a motor home, a fifth-wheel trailer, and a van.
   NATURAL WATERWAYS. Areas, varying in width, along streams, creeks, gullies,
springs, or washes which are natural drainage channels, as determined by the
Building Inspector, and in which areas no buildings shall be constructed.
   NIGHTLY RENTAL. The rental of a sleeping room, apartment, dwelling unit, or
dwelling for time periods of less than 30 days.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure, or portion
thereof, lawfully existing at the time this chapter became effective, which
does not conform to all the height, area, and yard regulations herein
prescribed in the zone in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupies a building or land at the
time this chapter became effective and which does not conform with the use
regulations of the zone in which it is located.
   NURSING CARE FACILITY. Any facility licensed by the State Department of
Health as a nursing care facility that provides licensed nursing care and
related services to residents who need continuous health care and supervision.
These facilities provide SKILLED NURSING CARE, which means a level of care that
provides 24-hour inpatient care to residents who need licensed nursing
supervision. The complexity of the prescribed services must be performed by or
under the close supervision of licensed health care personnel. These facilities
are to comply with the provisions in Utah Administrative Code § R432-150,
“Nursing Care Facility.”
   OFFICIAL MAP. Any map adopted by the City Council under the provision of UCA
§ 10-9a-407, as amended.
   OPEN GREEN SPACE. An open space suitable for relaxation or landscaping. It
shall be unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings and/or hard surfaces such as
asphalt, cement, and packed gravel, except that such open green space may be
traversed by necessary sidewalks and access rights-of-way.
   OWNER. Any person who is either the legal owner, keeper, possessor, or the
actual custodian of an animal. OWNERSHIP is established by a person registering
as an owner on a license or other legal document, or being a person claiming
ownership and taking, or having possession of, an animal.
   PARKING LOT. An open area, other than a street, used for the parking of more
than four automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for
compensation, or as an accommodation for clients or customers, designed so that
access to the parking spaces in the lot is by means of private interior
roadways or alleys, and not by direct access from a public street.
   PARKING SPACE. Space within a building, lot, or parking lot for the parking
or storage of one automobile.
   PASTURE. Fenced area enclosure for animals in which the grass product
available on the site is the primary source of feed and in which livestock are
kept in a loosely-controlled environment as opposed to being kept in a pen,
corral, or stable.
   PAVING MATERIAL. Asphalt, concrete, or blacktop and the component material
thereof that is stored with the intent to create asphalt, concrete, or
blacktop.
   PEN. An enclosed area typically having less than 500 square feet and
intended for occupancy by one to two animals.
   PET. A domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility, including,
but not limited to: birds, cats, dogs, tropical-type fish, rabbits, hamsters,
mice, and similar animals.
   PRIVATE. For use by the occupant, his or her friends, and guests, and not
for the purpose of remuneration, hire, or sale, or any other commercial use nor
use, by an ad hoc informal association or group for the purpose of
circumventing this limitation.
   RECREATIONAL RESORT. A grouping of outdoor and/or indoor recreation
facilities and activities designed to attract significant numbers of people as
a destination because of the recreational attractions and vacation-type
atmosphere. It may include accessory residential units for nightly rental.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular unit, other than a mobile home, designed
as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and vacation use, which is
either self-propelled or is mounted and/or pulled by another vehicle,
including, but not limited to: travel trailer, camp trailer, folding tent
trailer, truck camper, or motor home.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR DISABLED. A single-family or multiple-family
dwelling unit, consistent with existing zoning of the desired location, that is
occupied on a 24-hour per day basis by eight or fewer handicapped persons in a
family-type arrangement under the supervision of a house family or manager, and
that conforms to all applicable standards and requirements of the Department of
Social Services, and is operated by, or operated under, contract with that
Department. (See §§
157.950 through
157.955.)
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY. A dwelling unit that is occupied on a 24-
hour per day basis by eight or fewer elderly persons in a family-type
arrangement, and which is described more fully in §§
157.950 through
157.955.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS. A single-family or multiple-
family dwelling unit, consistent with existing zoning of the desired location,
that is occupied on a 24-hour per day basis by eight or fewer handicapped
persons in a family-type arrangement under the supervision of a house family or
manager, and that conforms to all applicable standards and requirements of the
Department of Social Services, and is operated by, or operated under, contract
with that Department.
   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. Facilities that offer room and board and
provide for, or arrange for, the provision of specialized treatment,
rehabilitation, or habilitation services for persons with emotional,
psychological, developmental, or behavioral dysfunctions, impairments, or
chemical dependencies. RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY means a 24-hour group
living environment for four or more individuals unrelated to the owner or
provider in accordance with UCA § 62A-2-101 and Utah Administrative Code §
R501-19. This does not include a residential facility for persons with a
disability.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. An animal that is legitimately certified, trained, or being
trained to assist physically challenged persons, such as hearing-impaired guide
dogs, mobility-limited assisting animals, or seeing-eye dogs.
   SIGN. A presentation or representation of words, letters, figures, designs,
pictures, or colors publicly displayed so as to give notice relative to a
person, a business, an article or merchandise, a service, an assemblage, a
solicitation, or a request for aid; also, the structure or framework, or any
natural object, on which any sign is erected, or is intended to be erected, or
exhibited, or which is being used, or is intended to be used, for sign
purposes.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. An off-premises sign 20 square feet or less in area.
   SIGN, ANIMATED. A sign which involves a motion or rotation of any part
created by artificial means, or displays flashing or intermittent lights.
   SIGN, AREA. The area of a sign that is used for display purposes, excluding
the minimum frame and supports. In computing SIGN AREA, only one side of back-
to-back signs covering the same subject shall be computed when the signs are
parallel or diverge from a common edge by an angle of not more than 45 degrees.
In relation to signs that do not have a frame or a separate background, SIGN
AREA shall be computed on the basis of the least rectangle, triangle, or circle
large enough to frame the display.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. An off-premises sign larger than 20 square feet in area.
Two or more separate advertising spaces structurally connected will be
considered one sign.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a use conducted, project,
or commodity sold or service performed upon the premises.
   SIGN, DEVELOPMENT. A business sign identifying a construction project, or
subdivision development. The sign may contain the name of the project, name and
an address of the construction firm(s), architect, and developer.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. Business incidental signs designed to guide or direct
pedestrians or vehicular traffic.
   SIGN, FLAT. A sign erected parallel to, and attached to, or painted on or
pasted on, the outside wall or window of a building and projecting not more
than 18 inches from such wall or window.
   SIGN, FLOODLIGHTED. A sign illuminated in the absence of daylight and by
devices which reflect or project light upon it.
   SIGN, GROUND. A sign placed upon the ground, or supported by a frame or
supports placed in, or upon, the ground.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION AND INFORMATION. An on-premises sign displayed to
indicate the name or nature of a building or use, including all professional
and business buildings, home occupations, apartment complexes, and public and
semipublic buildings. Temporary and development signs are classified in this
category only.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs,
or outlines illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as a part of the
sign proper.
   SIGN, NAME PLATE. A sign indicating the name and/or occupation of a person
or persons residing on the premises or legally occupying the premises, or
indicated a home’s occupation legally existing on the premises.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign which directs attention to a use, project,
commodity, or service not related to the premises on which it is located.
   SIGN, POLITICAL OR CAMPAIGN. A sign soliciting support for a person running
for public office, or a sign defending or objecting to an issue or proposal
being placed before the public.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign attached to a building or other structure and
extending in whole, or in part, more than 18 inches beyond any wall of the
building or structure.
   SIGN, PROPERTY. A sign related to the property on which it is located and
offering such property for sale or lease, or advertising contemplated
improvements or announcing the name of the building, owner, designer, or
developer of the project, or warning against trespassing.
   SIGN, PUBLIC NECESSITY. A sign informing the public of any danger or hazard
existing on, or adjacent to, the premises.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected partly or wholly on, or over, the roof of a
building, but not including ground signs that rest on, or overlap, a roof 12
inches or less.
   SIGN, SERVICE. A sign which is incidental to a use lawfully occupying the
property upon which the sign is located and which sign is necessary to provide
information to the public, such as direction to parking lots, location of
restrooms, sale of agricultural products produced upon the premises, or other
such pertinent facts.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign, banner, pennant, valance, or advertising display
constructed, of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard, or other
light materials, with or without frames, intended to be displayed for a short
period of time only.
   SIGN, WALL. A sign which is affixed to an exterior wall of a building or
structure and which projects not more than 18 inches from the building or
structure wall, and which does not extend more than four feet above the
parapet, eaves, or building facade of the building on which it is located.
   SOLID WASTE. Any household garbage, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment
plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility, and
other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained
gaseous materials resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, and
agricultural operations and from community activities.
   STABLE. A detached accessory building for the keeping of animals belonging
to, or used by, the property owner or lessee and not for rent or for the
stabling of the same for profit.
   STANDARD. A standard adopted by the American National Standards Institute or
the National Fire Protection Association for recreational vehicles, and for
mobile homes manufactured prior to June 15, 1976. For manufactured homes built
after June 16, 1976, STANDARD means the standard adopted pursuant to the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974,
being 42 U.S.C. Chapter 70, §§ 5401 et seq., and as amended from time to time.
   STOCKYARD. A commercial operation consisting of yards and enclosures where
livestock are kept temporarily for slaughter, marketing, or shipping, together
with necessary offices, chutes, loading and unloading pens, and railroad
facilities.
   STORY. The space within a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the ceiling next above.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A thoroughfare which has been dedicated to the abutting
land owners for joint private access to private property and accepted and
approved by the City Council.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A thoroughfare which has been dedicated or abandoned to the
public and accepted by proper public authority, or a thoroughfare, not less
than 26 feet wide, which has been made public by right of use, and which
affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in supporting members of a building or
structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having a location on the ground.
   TAVERN. Any business establishment operating under the Class “A” beer
license regulations of the city, where the main purpose is for the sale of beer
and mix for drinks to public patrons, and the revenue from the sale of beer and
mix for drinks exceeds the revenue from the sale of food. The term TAVERN is
inclusive of beer parlors and lounges. Such establishments shall be limited to
two per lineal one-eighth of a mile distance.
   TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS, CONTAINERS, OR STRUCTURES. Any building, structure,
container, or unit that can be moved by any means. It is not affixed to a
permanent foundation and is not built with materials consistent with
residential or commercial construction. This definition shall include, but is
not be limited to: tractor trailers; containers originally designed for truck,
rail, or boat transportation; commercial storage units that can be rented; and
any temporary structure constructed without a building permit.
   THERAPY PET. A therapeutic pet subject to a reasonable accommodation under
federal or state law relating to persons with a disability as part of mental or
physical health care under the direction of a legitimate mental or physical
health care provider, or as otherwise accommodated by, or being trained for use
in, a care facility, hospital, hospice, or like facility.
   TOURIST COURT OR MOTEL. Any building or group of buildings containing
sleeping rooms, with or without fixed cooking facilities, designed for
temporary use by automobile tourists or transients, with the garage attached or
parking space conveniently located to each unit, including auto courts, motels,
or motor lodges.
   TRAILER CAMP or TRAILER COURT. Any area or tract of land used or designed to
accommodate two or more travel trailers, recreational vehicles, or camping
parties.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable unit, mounted on wheels, not requiring
special highway movement permits when drawn by a motorized vehicle:
      (1)   Designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and
vacation use; and
      (2)   When factory-equipped for the road, having a body width of not more
than eight feet and a body length of not more than 40 feet.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A subordinate use customarily incidental to, and located
upon, the same lot occupied by the main use and devoted exclusively to the main
use of the premises.
   USE, CONDITIONAL. A use or occupancy of a building or use of land permitted
by the Planning Commission as a “special exception” only when authorized upon
issuance of a conditional use permit and subject to the limitations and
conditions specified therein, as provided in §§
157.515 through
157.529, intended to allow compatible integration of uses which may be suitable
only in certain locations within a particular zone, or only upon certain
conditions and/or design criteria being achieved.
   USE, PERMITTED. Any use lawfully occupying land or buildings as authorized
in the zone regulations, and for which no conditional use permit is required.
   WIDTH OF LOT. The distance between the side lot lines at the minimum setback
distance from the front lot line required for the depth of the front yard.
Minimum setback is 30 feet.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which is not commonly domesticated, listed as
protected by federal or state law, or which may be perceived as wild or
predatory in nature, or any animal which, because of its size, growth
propensity, vicious nature or other characteristics, would constitute an
unreasonable danger to human life or property if not kept, maintained, or
confined in a safe and secure manner. Such animals include, but are not limited
to:
      (1)   Alligators, crocodiles, and caiman;
      (2)   Bears (Ursidae);
      (3)   Cat family (Felidae), except commonly-accepted domesticated cats,
and includes cheetahs, cougars, leopards, lions, lynx, panthers, mountain
lions, tigers, wild cats, and similar animals;
      (4)   Dog family (Canidae), except all domesticated dogs, and includes
wolf, part wolf, fox, part fox, coyote, part coyote, dingo, and similar
animals;
      (5)   Porcupine (Erethizontidae);
      (6)   Primate (non-human), and includes all subhuman primates;
      (7)   Raccoon (Prosynnidae); all raccoons, including eastern raccoons,
desert raccoon ring-tailed cat, and similar animals;
      (8)   Skunks;
      (9)   Venomous fish and piranhas;
      (10)   Venomous snakes and lizards; and
      (11)   Weasels (Mustelidae), including weasels, martens, wolverines,
badgers, otters, ermine, mink, mongoose, and similar animals (this category
does not include ferrets commercially available at typical retail pet shops in
the area).
   YARD. An open space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward by permanently-parked vehicles, buildings,
or structures, except as otherwise provided herein.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard on the same lot with a building, between the front line
of the building exclusive of steps and the front lot line, and extending across
the full width of the lot. The depth of the FRONT YARD is the minimum distance
between the nearest part of the front lot line and the nearest part of the
front line of the building or buildings on the lot.
   YARD, REAR. A yard on the same lot with a building, between the rear line of
the building exclusive of steps and the rear lot line, and extending the full
width of the lot. The depth of the REAR YARD shall be the minimum distance
between the nearest part of the rear lot line and the nearest part of the rear
line of the building.
   YARD, SETBACK. The minimum distance for the depth or width of a yard
required by this chapter for the zone in which the lot or parcel is located.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard on the same lot with a building, between the side line of
the building exclusive of steps and the side lot line, and extending from the
front yard to the rear yard. The width of the SIDE YARD shall be the minimum
distance between the nearest part of the side lot line and nearest part of the
side line of the building.
(Prior Code, § 2.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 13-2005, passed 11-2-
2005; Ord. 30-2019, passed 9-4-2019; Ord. 39-2019, passed 12-18-2019; Ord. 23-
2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 05-2022, passed 3- -2022)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 157.015 BUILDING OFFICIAL TO ENFORCE.
   The Building Official is hereby designated and authorized as the officer
charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 14-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.016 PERMITS TO COMPLY WITH CODE.
   The Building Official shall not grant a permit for the construction or
alteration of any building or structure if such construction or alteration
would be in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter; nor shall any
city officer grant any permit or license for the use of any building or land if
such use would be in violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 14-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.017 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Building Official to inspect, or cause to
be inspected, all buildings in the course of construction or repair. He or she
shall enforce the provisions of this chapter, entering actions in the courts
when necessary, and his or her failure to do so shall not legalize any
violation of such provisions.
   (B)   No city official shall issue any permit unless the plans of, and for,
the proposed erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use fully
conform to all zoning regulations then in effect.
(Prior Code, § 4.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 14-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.018 FEES FOR PROCESSING ZONING PETITIONS AND PLANNED RESIDENTIAL UNIT
DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Fees relating to zoning map amendments, ordinance amendments,
commercial site plans, conditions uses, Hearing Officer applications or
petitions, annexations, appeals, and other activities as may from time to time
be authorized by the City Council.
   (B)   Fees for processing zoning petitions, conditional use applications,
Hearing Officer applications, excavation applications, and other activities as
authorized by the City Council, shall be recommended by the Planning Commission
for consideration for adoption by the City Council and such fees as are
approved by the City Council shall be collected by the City Recorder.
   (C)   The fee schedule shall be in accordance with the West Haven City
Consolidated Fee Schedule. The West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule is
hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 4.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 14-2020, passed 5-6-2020;
Ord. 26-2023, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 157.019 LICENSING.
   All departments, officials, and public employees of the city vested with the
duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the
requirements of this chapter and shall issue no permit or license for uses,
buildings, or purposes where the same would be in conflict with the provisions
of this chapter, and any such permit or license, if issued in conflict with the
chapter, shall be null and void.
(Prior Code, § 4.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 14-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.020 VALIDITY.
   Should any section, clause, or provision of this chapter be declared by the
courts to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of the chapter or
any part thereof, other than the part so declared to be invalid.
(Prior Code, § 4.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 14-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
APPEAL AUTHORITY; HEARING OFFICER
§ 157.035 APPOINTMENT, TERM, REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Appeal Authority (“Hearing Officer”) shall be a single individual,
appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, for a
term of three years, and may be appointed for succeeding three-year terms.
   (B)   The Hearing Officer shall, as a minimum, have such training and
experience as will qualify thim or her to conduct administrative or quasi-
judicial hearings regarding land use, land development, and regulatory codes
dealing with issues related to land use, and have knowledge and familiarity
with constitutional due process rights.
   (C)   The Mayor may remove the Hearing Officer for cause upon receipt of
written charges filed against the Hearing Officer, after a public hearing if
requested, and upon the advice and consent, of the City Council.
   (D)   Upon the death, resignation, removal, or disqualification, the
position of Hearing Officer shall be promptly filled by a replacement appointed
by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council for the unexpired
term of the previous Hearing Officer.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall be an independent contractor.
   (F)   The Mayor may, from time to time, appoint a Hearing Officer pro
tempore temporarily when necessitated by the absence, unavailability,
incapacity, or disqualification of the regularly-appointed Hearing Officer,
upon the advice and consent of the City Council. Each Hearing Officer pro
tempore shall, as a minimum, have qualifications similar to those specified in
division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 06.01) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.036 ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   Powers and rights. The Hearing Officer shall adopt rules under state
law, this chapter, and any other applicable ordinance. Meetings of the Hearing
Officer shall be held at such times as the Hearing Officer may determine. The
Hearing Officer may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
Meetings of the Appeal Authority may be open to the public or conducted by any
means, including electronic communication only, sufficient to provide the
parties due process and equal protection.
   (B)   Minutes; records. The Hearing Officer shall keep minutes of his or her
proceedings, and shall keep records of his or her examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
City Recorder and shall be a public record.
   (C)   Routine, uncontested matters. The Mayor, with the advice and consent
of the City Council, may appoint a Zoning Administrator to decide routine and
uncontested matters of the Appeal Authority, with concurrence with the City
Attorney, as designated by the Appeal Authority, and under its established
guidelines. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Zoning Administrator may
appeal the decision to the Hearing Officer, as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 06.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.037 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by his or her inability to obtain a building permit, or
by the decision of any administrative officer or agency based upon, or made in
the administration or enforcement of, the ordinances of the city related to a
decision of a land use application, land development, or city regulatory
requirements, or a variance, may take an appeal to the Hearing Officer. Appeals
to the Appeal Authority may be taken by any officer, department, board, or
bureau of the city affected by the grant of, or refusal to grant, a building
permit, or by any other decision of an administrative officer or agency based
on, or made in, the administration or enforcement of city ordinances related to
a decision of a land use application, land development, or city regulatory code
or a variance.
   (A)   Time to appeal. Any appeal under this section must be filed in writing
with the City Recorder within 14 calendar days of issuing any written decision
related to the topics, areas, or conditions set out in the paragraph above.
   (B)   Time for hearing appeal. The Hearing Officer will hear the appeal
within 15 days after the date the appeal was filed. For good cause shown, the
Hearing Officer may extend this time as necessary.
   (C)   Written statement setting forth theories of relief required. Not less
than five business days prior to the scheduled hearing on the matter, the
appellant shall deliver to the Hearing Officer, and all other participants, a
written statement setting forth every theory of reliefs he or she intends to
raise at the hearing, with a brief statement of facts in support.
   (D)   Condition precedent to judicial review. No theory of relief may be
raised in the District Court unless it was timely and specifically presented to
the Hearing Officer.
   (E)   Standard of review and burden of proof on appeal. The Hearing Officer
shall, on appeal, presume that the decision applying the land use ordinance is
valid and determine only whether or not the decision is arbitrary, capricious,
or illegal. The burden of proof on appeal is on the appellant.
   (F)   Due process rights. The Hearing Officer shall respect the due process
rights of each participant.
(Prior Code, § 06.03) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.038 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS PENDING APPEAL.
   (A)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action for which
the appeal has been filed unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Hearing Officer, after the notice of appeal shall have been
filed with him or her, that, by facts stated in the certificate, the stay
would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property.
   (B)   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order, which may be granted by the Hearing Officer or by the
district court on application and notice, and on good cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 06.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.039 NOTICE OF MEETING ON APPEAL; RIGHTS OF APPEARANCE.
   The Hearing Officer shall fix a reasonable time for hearing the appeal, give
public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and shall decide the
same within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any party may appear in person
or by agent or by attorney.
(Prior Code, § 06.05) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.040 POWERS OF HEARING OFFICER ON APPEAL.
   The Hearing Officer shall have the following powers:
   (A)   Appeals. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the
appellant there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or refusal made
by an administrative official or agency based on, or made in, the enforcement
of this chapter;
   (B)   Special exceptions. To hear and decide, under this chapter, requests
for special exceptions, or for interpretation of the map, or for decisions on
other special questions on which such authority is authorized by this chapter
to pass;
   (C)   Variances. To authorize, on an appeal, a variance from strict
application of the regulations, where, by exceptional narrowness, shallowness,
or shape of a piece of property at the time of the enactment of the regulation,
or by exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary and exceptional
situations or conditions of such piece of property, the strict application of
any regulations enacted would cause peculiar and exceptional practical
difficulties to, or exceptional and undue hardships upon, the owner of such
property. The variance from such strict application can be granted to relieve
such difficulties or hardships; provided such relief may be granted without
substantial detriment to the public good and without substantial impairment to
the intent and purpose of the master plan and this chapter. Before any variance
may be authorized, however, it shall be shown that:
      (1)   The variance will not substantially affect the comprehensive plan
of zoning in the city and that adherence to the strict letter of this chapter
will cause difficulties and hardships, the imposition of which, upon the
petitioner, is unnecessary to carry out the general purpose of the plan;
      (2)   Special circumstances are attached to the property covered by the
application which do not generally apply to other properties in the same zone;
      (3)   Because of the special circumstances, property covered by the
application is deprived of privileges possessed by other properties in the same
zone, and that granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a
substantial property right possessed by other property in the same zone; and
      (4)   In determining whether enforcement of the land use ordinance would
cause unreasonable hardship, the Appeal Authority may not find an unreasonable
hardship if the hardship is self-imposed or economic.
   (D)   Nonconforming uses. To permit the enlargement of, addition to, or
relocation of a building or structure, nonconforming as to use regulations, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   For a nonconforming use in a residential zone, the enlargement,
addition, or relocation shall either:
         (a)   Comply with all the height, yard, and area requirements for a
single-family dwelling in the zone in which the nonconforming building is
located; or
         (b)   The proposed enlargement, addition, or relocation will either:
            1.   Improve the area by increasing the off-street parking; or
            2.   Improve the general appearance, convenience, or safety of the
area.
      (2)   For a nonconforming use in any zone other than a residential zone,
the enlargement, addition, or relocation shall comply with all height, yard,
and area requirements for a main building, other than dwellings, in the zone in
which it is located; and
      (3)   Before granting a permit for any enlargement, addition, or
relocation, the Hearing Officer shall find in his or her public meeting that
the proposed changes will not hinder or obstruct the attainment of the
objectives of this chapter more than does the existing nonconforming use.
   (E)   Nonconforming yard, height, or area regulations. To allow those
enlargements of, additions to, or relocations of buildings and structures
nonconforming as to yard, height, or area regulations, where an undue hardship
will result to the owner of the land involved unless granted and the attainment
of the objectives of this chapter will not be hindered or obstructed; and
provided the proposed enlargement, addition to, or relocation of will either:
      (1)   Improve the area by increasing needed off-street parking; or
      (2)   Improve the general appearance, convenience, or safety of the area.
   (F)   Extension of use. To permit, where a zone boundary line divides a lot
in single ownership at the time of establishment of the boundary, a use
authorized on either portion of such lot to extend to the entire lot; provided,
such permission shall not authorize the use to extend over 35 feet beyond the
zone boundary line or extend to an area greater than 5,000 square feet beyond
the said boundary line;
   (G)   Changes in nonconforming uses. To permit a nonconforming use to be
changed to another use allowed in the same or a more restrictive zone than the
one in which the nonconforming use would be allowed; provided, that the Hearing
Officer finds in its public meeting such change will not hinder or obstruct the
attainment of the objectives of this chapter more than does the existing
nonconforming use;
   (H)   Use permitted without street frontage. To permit the construction and
use of a dwelling upon a lot which does not have frontage on a street, but has
frontage on a dedicated right-of-way;
   (I)   Lot splitting. To permit the splitting of a lot wherein such lot split
creates a lot which does not have the required width of the zone in which the
lot is located; provided the created nonconforming lot meets the area
requirements of the zone and the structure placed on the lot meets all required
site standards of the zone; and that before building permits are issued for the
nonconforming split, the lot split shall be reviewed and approved by the City
Engineer.
   (J)   Burden of proof. The applicant shall bear the burden to prove that all
of the conditions justifying a variance have been met;
   (K)   Variances run with land. Once granted, variances run with the land;
and
   (L)   Additional requirements. In granting a variance, the Hearing Officer
may impose additional requirements on the applicant that will:
      (1)   Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; or
      (2)   Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement waived or
modified.
(Prior Code, § 06.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.041 DECISION OF APPEAL.
   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, such Hearing Officer may, in
conformity with this chapter, reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or may modify
the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make
such order, requirement, decision, or determination as should be made, and
shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
(Prior Code, § 06.07) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.042 ACTS NECESSARY FOR REVERSAL.
   The favorable finding of the Hearing Officer shall be necessary to reverse
any order, requirement, or determination of any administrative official, or to
decide in favor of the appellant on any matter upon which the Hearing Officer
is required or entitled to decide under this chapter, or to effect any
variation in such ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 06.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.043 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF APPEAL AUTHORITY’S DECISION.
   The city or any person aggrieved by a decision of the Hearing Officer may
have, and maintain, a plenary action for relief therefrom in any court of
competent jurisdiction; provided petition for such relief is presented to the
court within 30 days after the Hearing Officer files his or her decision in the
office of the City Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 06.09) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.044 TIME LIMITATION OF VARIANCE.
   (A)   If the Hearing Officer grants a variance under this chapter,
alterations under the variance, if required, must be activated within six
months after the date the variance is granted or the variance becomes null and
void. The time limit of the variance may be extended an additional six months
by the appeal authority, and then only if the petitioner shows adequate cause
to the Hearing Officer that circumstances necessitate a time extension.
   (B)   If it is the case that the variance granted permits the continuation
of a previously-nonconforming use, that use shall continue and shall run with
the land.
(Prior Code, § 06.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.045 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Upon filing of any appeal or application to the appeal authority, the
appellant or applicant shall pay to the city a fee prescribed by the City
Council. This fee shall be in accordance with the West Haven City Consolidated
Fee Schedule. The West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule is hereby adopted
by reference.
   (B)   The said fee shall be collected by the officer in whose office said
appeal is filed and shall be deposited with the City Treasurer and credited to
the General Fund.
   (C)   No appeal or application shall be considered by the Hearing Officer
unless such fee has been paid.
(Prior Code, § 06.11) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2015, passed 1-7-
2015; Ord. 26-2023, passed 1-3-2024)
§ 157.046 COMPENSATION OF APPEAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Hearing Officer shall be an independent contractor, and will enter
into a three-year contract for services at the beginning of each appointed
term.
   (B)   Terms for compensation and reimbursement will be determined and agreed
upon, and approved by, the City Council prior to any individual entering into
service as the Appeal Authority.
(Prior Code, § 06.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.047 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   APPEAL AUTHORITY. The person, appointed by the Mayor, subject to advice and
consent, to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use application, land
development, or city regulatory code or a variance.
   HEARING OFFICER.
      (1)   The individual duly appointed as the Appeal Authority.
      (2)   The terms HEARING OFFICER and APPEAL AUTHORITY are synonymous as
the text may require as used throughout this chapter.
   LAND USE APPLICATION. An application required by a municipality’s land use
chapter.
   LAND USE AUTHORITY. A person, appeal authority, commission, agency, or other
body designated by the legislative body to act upon a land use application.
(May be the HEARING OFFICER or APPEAL AUTHORITY as the text may require as used
throughout this chapter. The city may also establish more than one LAND USE
AUTHORITY.)
   LAND USE ORDINANCE. A planning, zoning, development, or subdivision
ordinance of the municipality, but does not include the general plan.
   THIS CHAPTER. The actual language constituting this chapter and any other
part of any other city ordinance related to a decision of a land use
application, land development, or city regulatory ordinance, code, or a
variance, also, but not limited to, the following areas:
      (1)   Business and license regulations, and public health and safety;
      (2)   Public ways and property building regulations, and zoning
regulations; and
      (3)   Planned residential unit development.
(Prior Code, § 06.13) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.048 ADDITIONAL CHANGES.
   (A)   Appeals. All prior references to “appeals” in prior ordinances are
amended to read: If an applicant is dissatisfied with the decision of the
Planning Commission, an appeal may be submitted to the Appeal Authority under
this chapter.
   (B)   Variance procedures. All prior references to “variance procedures,” or
similar appeal matters for variances as established in prior ordinances, are
amended to read:
      (1)   The Appeal Authority, as established by this chapter, shall hear
and render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter;
      (2)   The Appeal Authority shall hear and render judgment on an appeal
only when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the officer, agent, or office of the city in the
enforcement or administration of the ordinances of the city;
      (3)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal
Authority may appeal such decision in the state courts of competent
jurisdiction. Jurisdiction and venue shall lie with the Second District Court
of the county;
      (4)   When floodplain decisions are at issue, the Floodplain
Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal, and
shall report variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request;
      (5)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, in conformance with state or federal
requirements related thereto, without regard to contrary or conflicting
procedures in this chapter;
      (6)   Such variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure, and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure;
      (7)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and consistent with
the intent of this chapter, the Appeal Authority may attach such conditions
when granting variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and
objectives of this chapter, the city’s zoning, and subdivision ordinances, and
other ordinances;
      (8)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result;
      (9)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
         (a)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would cause
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            3.   A determination that granting a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on, or victimization of, the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (c)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure may be built with the lowest floor elevation
below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
      (10)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements, and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally-dependent use; provided that:
         (a)   The criteria outlined in divisions (B)(2) through (B)(8) above
are met; and
         (b)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Prior Code, § 06.14) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
ZONES AND DISTRICTS
§ 157.060 BOUNDARIES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the city, to which this chapter applies, is
divided into 25 classes of zones as follows:
Zone Name Zone Abbreviation
Zone Name                                      Zone Abbreviation
Agricultural Zone                              A-1
Agricultural Zone                              A-2
Commercial Zone (Business District)            C-3
Commercial Zone (Limited)                      C-2
Commercial Zone (Neighborhood)                 C-1
Floodplain Zone                                FP-1
Manufacturing Zone                             M-1
Manufacturing Zone                             M-2
Open Space Zone                                O-1
Planned Commercial Zone                        C-1P
Planned Commercial Zone                        C-2P
Planned Commercial Zone                        C-3P
Residential Estates Zone                       RE-15
Residential Estates Zone                       RE-20
Residential Patio Home Zone                    PH
Residential Zone                               R-1
Residential Zone                               R-2
Residential Zone                               R-2.5
Residential Zone                               R-3
Residential Zone                               R-4
Residential Zone                               R-5
Residential Mobile Manufactured Home Park Zone RMHP
Suburban Residential (Gravel Zone)             S-1G
Suburban Residential (Gravel Zone)             S-2G
 
(Prior Code, § 8.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.061 HEIGHT-LIMITING ZONES.
   In addition to the zones hereinabove established, all the land within the
boundaries of the city, and within 50,000 feet of the established airport
reference points at Hinckley Municipal Airport in the county and Hill Air Force
Base in Davis County, is hereby divided into the following listed height
limiting zones:
   (A)   Horizontal Surface Zone;
   (B)   Approach Surface Zone;
   (C)   Transitional Surface Zone;
   (D)   Concial Surface Zone;
   (E)   Turning Zone; and
   (F)   Clear Zone.
(Prior Code, § 8.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.062 BOUNDARIES OF ZONES.
   The boundaries of each of the said zones are hereby established as described
herein, or as shown on the map entitled “Zoning Map of West Haven” and maps
entitled “Airport Zoning Map of Weber County” and “Planning District Maps,”
which map or maps are attached and all boundaries, notations, and other data
shown thereon are made by this reference as much a part of this chapter as if
fully described and detailed herein.
(Prior Code, § 8.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.063 MAPS OF DISTRICTS.
   Each of the districts of the city which are hereby amended or zoned are
shown on maps attached to this chapter, and such maps are made by this
reference as much a part of this chapter as if fully described and detailed
herein.
(Prior Code, § 8.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.064 TITLE OF ZONING MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/218f49f72ffab1adb43b7ec936a32d15f00598f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2062.png]
(Prior Code, §  8.1) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 18-2023, passed 9- -2023)
§ 157.065 FILING OF SUBCHAPTER AND MAPS.
   This chapter and the maps shall be in the custody of the City Recorder, and
may be examined by the public subject to any reasonable regulations established
by the Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 8.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.066 RULES FOR LOCATING BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone, the following rules
shall apply.
   (A)   Wherever the zone boundary is indicated as being approximately upon
the centerline of a street, alley, or block, or along a property line, then,
unless otherwise definitely indicated on the map, the centerline of such
street, alley, or block of such property line shall be construed to be the
boundary of such zone.
   (B)   Whenever such boundary line of such zone is indicated as being
approximately at the line of any river, irrigation canal, or other waterway or
railroad right-of-way, or public park or other public land, or any section
line, then in such a case, the center of such stream, canal, or waterway, or of
such railroad right-of-way, or the boundary line of such public land or such
section line, shall be deemed to be the boundary of such zone.
   (C)   Where such zone boundary lines cannot be determined by the above
rules, their location may be found by the use of the scale appearing upon the
map.
   (D)   Where the application of the above rules does not clarify the zone
boundary location, the Board of Adjustment shall interpret the map.
(Prior Code, § 8.14) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.067 CONDITIONS TO ZONING MAP AMENDMENT.
   (A)   In order to provide more specific land use designations and land
development suitability, to ensure that proposed development is compatible with
surrounding neighborhoods, and to provide notice to property owners of
limitations and requirements for the development of property, conditions may be
attached to any zoning map amendment which limit or restrict the following:
      (1)   Uses;
      (2)   Dwelling unit density;
      (3)   Building square footage; and
      (4)   Height of structures.
   (B)   A zoning map amendment attaching any of the conditions set forth in
division (A) above shall be designated “ZC” after the zoning classification on
the zoning map, and any such conditions shall be placed on record with the City
Planning Commission and recorded with the City Recorder.
   (C)   In the event any zoning condition is declared invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then the entire zoning map amendment shall be void.
   (D)   Any deletion in, or change to, zoning conditions shall be considered
an amendment to the zoning ordinance and shall be subject to the requirements
of this chapter.
   (E)   The attachment of conditions to any zoning map amendment shall not
affect the applicability of other ordinance provisions.
(Prior Code, § 8.16) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 9-99, passed 7-21-1999)
R-3 ZONE
§ 157.080 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose of the R-3 Zone is to provide residential areas that
will accommodate the development of a variety of dwelling types, from single-
family through multiple-family units, with their associated necessary public
services and activities.
      (2)   It is also to provide an orderly transition from less intensive,
lower-density uses to more intensive, higher-density uses.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.010)
   (B)   For the purpose of application of the requirements of the R-3 Zone,
one acre is 43,560 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.060)
(Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 4-97, passed 9-3-1997; Ord. 38-2019, passed
11-20-2019)
§ 157.081 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any permitted
use;
   (B)   Agriculture;
   (C)   Churches, synagogues, or similar permanent buildings used for regular
religious worship;
   (D)   Educational institution;
   (E)   Group dwellings with 24 or less dwelling units, in accordance with §
157.613;
   (F)   Home occupations, with no visiting clientele;
   (G)   Household pets;
   (H)   Libraries or museums, public or nonprofit;
   (I)   Multiple-family dwellings;
   (J)   Parking lot accessories to uses permitted in this zone;
   (K)   Public buildings, public parks, recreation grounds, and associated
buildings.
   (L)   Residential facilities for handicapped persons meeting the
requirements of §§
157.950 through
157.955;
   (M)   Residential facility for elderly persons meeting the requirements of
§§
157.950 through
157.955;
   (N)   Single-family dwellings;
   (O)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work. Such
building shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work; and
   (P)   Twin homes.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.020) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 4-97, passed 9-3-
1997; Ord. 38-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 157.082 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted only when authorized by a conditional
use permit as provided in §§
157.515 through
157.529:
   (A)   Group dwellings with 25 or more dwelling units, in accordance with §
157.613;
   (B)   Home occupations with visiting clientele;
   (C)   Assisted living;
   (D)   Nursing homes;
   (E)   Private parks, playgrounds, or recreation areas, but not including
privately-owned commercial amusement businesses; and
   (F)   Public utility substations.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.030) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 4-97, passed 9-3-
1997; Ord. 38-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 157.083 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Below are the standards for site development within the city.
 
Building    Minimum  Minimum Minimum   Minimum Minimum Additional   Maximum
Type        Lot Size Lot     Front     Side    Rear    Setback      Height
                     Width   Setback   Setback Setback Requirements
                             Must be                   May not be
                             behind                    located
                             the plane                 closer than
Accessory                    of the    5 ft.   5 ft.   10 ft. to an
building                     rear of                   existing
                             the main                  dwelling on
                             building                  an adjacent
                                                       lot
See West Haven Zoning Code §
157.605 for regulations on accessory structures.
                                                       No multiple-
                                                       family (over
                                                       2 units)
                                                       dwelling in  35 ft. to
                                                       this         an
Multiple-                                              category may existing
family                                                 be built     R-2.5 or
(over 2                      20 ft. to                 with a       R-4 lot or
units) less                  garage;   5 ft.   15 ft.  setback less to any
than 35.1                    15 ft. to                 than 30 ft.  existing
ft. in                       dwelling.                 off of the   Mixed Use
height                                                 property     lot with a
(townhomes)                                            line to an   single-
                                                       existing A-  family
                                                       1, A-2, R-1, home
                                                       or R-2 lot;
                                                       or less than
                                                       20 ft.
                                                       No multiple-
                                                       family (over
                                                       2 units)
                                                       dwelling in
                                                       this
                                                       category may
                                                       be built
                                                       with a
                                                       setback less
                                                       than 50 ft.
                                                       off of the
                                                       property     60 ft. for
                                                       line to an   areas
                                                       existing A-  designated
Multiple-                                              1, A-2, R-1, as 24
family                                                 or R-2 lot;  units per
(over 2                                                or less than acre; 35
units) more                                            30 ft. to an ft. for
than 35 ft.                                            existing R-  all areas
in height                                              2.5 or R-    less than
                                                       4 lot or to  24 units
                                                       any existing per acre
                                                       mixed use
                                                       lot with a
                                                       single-
                                                       family home.
                                                       No less than
                                                       25 ft. off
                                                       of the
                                                       property
                                                       line where
                                                       building is
                                                       against a
                                                       public road
                                                       No non-
                                                       residential
                                                       main
                                                       building
                                                       over 35 ft.
                                                       in height
                                                       may be built
                                                       with
                                                       setbacks
                                                       less than 40
                                                       ft. off of
Non-                                                   the property
residential 8,000    60 ft.  20 ft.    8 ft.   30 ft.  line to an   45 ft.
main        ft.                                        existing A-
building                                               1, A-2, R-1,
                                                       or R-2 lot;
                                                       or less than
                                                       25 ft. to an
                                                       existing R-
                                                       2.5 or R-
                                                       4 lot or to
                                                       any existing
                                                       mixed use
                                                       lot with a
                                                       single-
                                                       family home.
            5,000
            sq. ft.
Single-     (single- 60 sq.  20 ft. to
family and  family); ft. 70  garage;   5 ft.   15 ft.               35 ft.
twin home   8,000    ft. to  15 ft. to
            sq. ft.  house   house
            (twin
            home)
   
   (B)   Residential density for R-3 Zones shall comply with the density
designations on the “General Plan Map”.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.040) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 4-97, passed 9-3-
1997; Ord. 38-2019, passed 11-20-2019; Ord. 18-2022, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 15-
24, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 157.084 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The height, size, and location of signs shall be in accordance with the
regulations of §§
157.755 through
157.761.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.050) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 4-97, passed 9-3-
1997; Ord. 38-2019, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 157.085 REGULATIONS FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS, CONTAINERS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures will not be allowed
in this Zone except for temporary new construction sites with a valid current
building permit issued by the city. Temporary storage units, containers, or
structures must be removed within 30 days of completion or abandonment of
construction or permit expiration, whichever comes first.
   (B)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
moving and are allowed on a hard surface in a Residential Zone for up to 14
days for the outgoing resident and an additional 14 days for the incoming
resident.
   (C)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
remodeling projects in established neighborhoods for a period of up to 120 days
if placed in the driveway of a residence and up to six months if placed behind
a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to obscure the view
of the unit, container, or structure from the road. A valid current building
permit is required.
   (D)   Permanent use of these temporary storage units, containers, or
structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or Agricultural Zone on lots
of less than one acre. One storage unit may be allowed per acre with a land use
permit, which shall include a site plan and any required building permits. A
temporary storage unit, container, or structure shall be placed on a hard
surface such as gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt. Note, the maximum
number of temporary storage units, containers, or structures is one unit per
two acres, then one per additional acre with a conditional use permit. The
storage container must be placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or
other obstruction as to obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure
from the road.
   (E)   The city has no obligation or responsibility to research and enforce
an applicant’s property’s existing private covenants, conditions, or
restrictions prohibiting the use of temporary, or permanent use of, storage
units, containers, or structures. It is the exclusive responsibility of a
property owner to research and have full knowledge and understanding of those
private covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with, and are attached
to, his or her property. By submitting an application to the city for a
permanent or temporary storage unit, container, or structure, the applicant is
certifying that he or she has full knowledge and understanding of those private
covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with their property and have a
full understanding of whether those items prohibit the use of temporary or
permanent storage units, containers, or structures.
   (F)   All tractor trailers on an agricultural, residential, or commercial
parcel shall be licensed and registered with the state and must be actively
used. Trailers not involved in a construction project that remain in a fixed
location over 30 days shall be subject to fines, impoundment, and removal by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.070) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021, passed
7-21-2021)
§ 157.086 ENFORCEMENT AND FINES.
   (A)   Enforcement and fines. Upon a determination that a violation exists,
the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, will contact the owner
and shall require such owner to halt, eradicate, destroy, remove, or otherwise
cure the violation within 48 hours, or such later time as the Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee, may determine.
   (B)   Pre-existing conditions. In the instance of an existing storage unit,
container, or structure that has been established for a permanent use, the
owner shall have a pre-existing right, shall be a legally-nonconforming use,
and shall not be required to come into compliance with the new requirements
adopted July 21, 2021. The following conditions do, however, apply to any such
unit(s) as of the adoption of the original ordinance on April 10, 2020:
      (1)   Residential and Agriculture Zones. Temporary storage units,
containers, or structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or
Agricultural Zone on lots of less than one acre. The storage container must be
placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to
obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure from the road; and
      (2)   Commercial and Manufacturing Zones. A temporary storage unit,
container, or structure shall not be allowed in any Commercial or Manufacturing
Zone on lots of less than one acre. It must be placed on a hard surface such as
gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt, and made to look like the main
structure on the property, including the use of similar building materials and
colors.
   (C)   Temporary storage units. If the temporary storage unit, container, or
structure is moved or otherwise modified, the property owner would have to
comply to all requirements under the current ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.070.0100) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021,
passed 7-21-2021)
RE-15, RE-20 ZONES (RESIDENTIAL)
§ 157.100 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The major purpose of the RE-15 and RE-20 Zones is to provide and protect
residential development at a low density in a semi-agricultural or rural
environment. It is also to provide for certain rural amenities on larger
minimum lots, in conjunction with the primary residential nature of the Zone.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.010) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.101 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to a permitted or
conditional use:
   (B)   Agriculture and agricultural experiment station;
   (C)   Animals and fowl kept for family food production as an incidental and
accessory use to the residential use of the lot;
   (D)   Church, synagogue, or similar building used for regular religious
worship;
   (E)   Cluster subdivision, in accordance with the zoning ordinances of the
city;
   (F)   Corrals, stables, or buildings for the keeping of animals or fowl;
provided such building shall be located not less than 100 feet from a public
street, and not less than 25 feet from any side or rear lot line.
   (G)   Golf courses, except miniature golf.
   (H)   Greenhouses and nurseries limited to the sale of material produced on
premises and with no retail shop operation.
   (I)   Home occupation.
   (J)   Household pets.
   (K)   Parking lot accessories to use permitted in this Zone.
   (L)   Planned residential unit developments in accordance with §§
157.430 through
157.441.
   (M)   Private stables; horses for private use only, and provided that not
more than one horse may be kept for each one-half acre within any lot, and no
horses shall be kept on any lot of less than one-half acre in area.
   (N)   Public building; public parks, recreation grounds and associated
buildings, public schools; private educational institutions having a curriculum
similar to that ordinarily given in public schools.
   (O)   Single-family dwelling.
   (P)   Temporary buildings or uses incidental to construction work. Such
building shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.020) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.102 PERMITTED USES REQUIRING 40,000 SQUARE FOOT MINIMUM LOT AREA.
   None included.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.030) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.103 PERMITTED USES REQUIRING FIVE ACRE MINIMUM LOT AREA.
   (A)   Farms devoted to the hatching and raising (including fattening as
incident to raising) of chickens, turkeys, or other fowl, rabbits, fish, frogs,
or beavers hatched or raised on the premises.
   (B)   Raising and grazing of horses, cattle, sheep, or goats, including the
supplementary feeding of such animals; provided, that such raising or grazing
is not a part of, nor conducted in conjunction with, any livestock feed yard,
livestock sales yard, slaughterhouse, animal by-products business, or
commercial riding academy.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.040) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.104 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted only when authorized by a conditional
use permit as provided in §§
157.495 through
157.501:
   (A)   Child day cares or nurseries;
   (B)   Private parks, playgrounds, or recreation grounds and buildings not
open to the general public and to which no admission is made, but not
including, privately-owned commercial amusement businesses;
   (C)   Public utility substations or water storage reservoir developed by a
public agency and meeting requirements of §§
157.655 through
157.662; and
   (D)   Residential facilities for handicapped persons meeting the
requirements of §§
157.950 through
157.955.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.050) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.105 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
Site Development RE-15 RE-20
Site Development               RE-15                   RE-20
Building Height
   Maximum                  2 1/2 stories or 35 ft. 2 1/2 stores or 35 ft.
   Minimum                  1 story                 1 story
Minimum Lot Area
Minimum lot width              100 ft.                 100 ft.
   Uses listed in Sec §§
157.101 and                    15,000 sq. ft.          20,000 sq. ft.
157.104
   Uses listed in §
157.102
   Uses listed in §
157.103
Minimum Yard Setbacks
   Front                    30 ft.                  30 ft.
   Side
                               10 ft., except 1 ft. if 10 ft., except 1 ft. if
Accessory building             located at 6 ft. in     located at least 6 ft.,
                               rear of main building   in rear of main building
                               10 ft., with total      10 ft. with total width
Dwelling                       width of two side yards of two side yards not
                               not less than 24 ft.    less than 24 ft.
Other main building            20 ft. each side        20 ft. each side
Side; facing street on corner  20 ft.                  20 ft.
lot
   Rear
                               1 ft., except 10 ft.    1 ft., except 10 ft.
                               where accessory         where accessory building
Accessory                      building rears on side  rears on side yard of
                               yard of adjacent corner adjacent corner lot
                               lot
Main building                  30 ft.                  30 ft.
 
(Prior Code, § 10.04.060) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.106 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The height, size, and location of the following permitted signs shall be in
accordance with the regulations set forth in §§
157.755 through
157.761:
   (A)   Business signs. For legal nonconforming commercial or industrial use,
including flat, freestanding, projecting, temporary, or wall-type signs;
   (B)   Name plates. Flat or wall type;
   (C)   Identification and information signs. Directional, flat, freestanding,
projecting, temporary, or wall-type signs;
   (D)   Property signs. Directional, flat, freestanding, projecting,
temporary, or wall-type signs; and
   (E)   Service signs. Directional, flat, freestanding, or projecting-type
signs.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.070) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.107 REGULATIONS FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS, CONTAINERS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures will not be allowed
in this Zone except for temporary construction sites with a valid current
building permit issue by the city. Temporary storage units, containers, or
structures must be removed within 30 days of completion or abandonment of
construction or permit expiration, whichever comes first.
   (B)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
moving and are allowed on a hard surface in a Residential Zone for up to 14
days for the outgoing resident and an additional 14 days for the incoming
resident.
   (C)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
remodeling projects in established neighborhoods for a period of up to 120 days
if placed in the driveway of a residence and up to six months if placed behind
a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to obscure the view
of the unit, container, or structure from the road. A valid current building
permit is required.
   (D)   Permanent use of these temporary storage units, containers, or
structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or Agricultural Zone on lots
of less than one acre. One storage unit may be allowed per acre with a land use
permit, which shall include a site plan and any required building permits. A
temporary storage unit, container, or structure shall be placed on a hard
surface such as gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt. Note, the maximum
number of temporary storage units, containers, or structures is one unit per
two acres, then one per additional acre with a conditional use permit. The
storage container must be placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or
other obstruction as to obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure
from the road.
   (E)   The city has no obligation or responsibility to research and enforce
an applicant’s property’s existing private covenants, conditions, or
restrictions prohibiting the use of temporary, or permanent use of, storage
units, containers, or structures. It is the exclusive responsibility of a
property owner to research and have full knowledge and understanding of those
private covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with, and are attached
to, their property. By submitting an application to the city for a permanent or
temporary storage unit, container, or structure, the applicant is certifying
that he or she has full knowledge and understanding of those private covenants,
conditions, or restrictions that run with their property and have a full
understanding of whether those items prohibit the use of temporary or permanent
storage units, containers, or structures.
   (F)   All tractor trailers on an agricultural, residential, or commercial
parcel shall be licensed and registered with the state and must be actively
used. Trailers not involved in a construction project that remain in a fixed
location over 30 days shall be subject to fines, impoundment, and removal by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.080) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021, passed
7-21-2021)
§ 157.108 ENFORCEMENT AND FINES.
   (A)   Enforcement and fines. Upon a determination that a violation exists,
the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, will contact the owner
and shall require such owner to halt, eradicate, destroy, remove, or otherwise
cure the violation within 48 hours, or such later as time the Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee, may determine.
   (B)   Pre-existing conditions. In the instance of an existing storage unit,
container, or structure that has been established for a permanent use, the
owner shall have a pre-existing right, shall be a legally nonconforming use,
and shall not be required to come into compliance with the new requirements
adopted July 21, 2021. The following conditions do, however, apply to any such
unit(s) as of the adoption of the original ordinance on April 10, 2020:
      (1)   Residential and Agriculture Zones. Temporary storage units,
containers, or structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or
Agricultural Zone on lots of less than one acre. The storage container must be
placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to
obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure from the road.
      (2)   Commercial and Manufacturing Zones. A temporary storage unit,
container, or structure shall not be allowed in any Commercial or Manufacturing
Zone on lots of less than one acre. It must be placed on a hard surface such as
gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt, and made to look like the main
structure on the property, including the use of similar building materials and
colors.
   (C)   Temporary storage units. If the temporary storage unit, container, or
structure is moved or otherwise modified, the property owner would have to
comply to all requirements under the current ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.080.0100) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021,
passed 7-21-2021)
R-2 ZONE (RESIDENTIAL LOW-MODERATE DENSITY)
§ 157.120 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for areas in appropriate locations where quiet, moderate
density residential neighborhoods may be established and protected.
   (B)   The regulations of this Zone are designed to promote compatible land
uses consistent with a suburban environment enjoyed by residents within the
Zone.
   (C)   With proper controls that ensure the integrity of the Zone, alternate
forms of residential living are provided for by allowing flexibility in housing
type, preference, and costs.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.010) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-
6-2019; Ord. 10-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.121 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses and buildings;
   (B)   Agriculture;
   (C)   Dwellings, single-family;
   (D)   Animal keeping (see §§
157.865 through
157.868);
   (E)   Home occupations, except preschools and day care; and
   (F)   Pets; the keeping of household pets.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.020) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-
6-2019; Ord. 10-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.122 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Conditions for approval shall be determined by the Planning Commission or
City Council as otherwise provided in §§
157.515 through
157.529:
   (A)   Church (temporary churches held in open areas, tents, or in temporary
structures excluded);
   (B)   Day care centers and preschools within residences only, and on minimum
one-half acre lot;
   (C)   Golf courses, public or privately owned, whether or not operated as a
business;
   (D)   Planned unit developments (PUDs).
   (E)   Public buildings, and private and public utility buildings and uses.
   (F)   Public parks and/or playgrounds; also, privately-owned playgrounds and
recreational grounds or parks not operated as a business, in whole or in part,
to which no admission charge is made; and
   (G)   Schools, public or privately owned.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.030) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-
6-2019; Ord. 10-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.123 BUILDING LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Density. There shall be no more than two residential units per acre
contained within the boundaries of each phase of every subdivision or planned
unit development; except when previously completed phases of the same
development have sufficiently low density so that the average is still two
residential units per acre or less.
   (B)   Lot area. There shall be a minimum of 12,500 square feet in each lot.
When a variety of lot sizes are used, the larger will be placed against
existing lots.
   (C)   Lot width. All lots are to average 90 feet, with no less than 80 feet.
   (D)   Buffer. All lots contiguous to an A-1, A-2, or R-1 Zone are to be a
minimum of 17,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.040) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-
6-2019; Ord. 10-2020, passed 5-6-2020; Ord. 05-2022, passed 3- -2022)
§ 157.124 LOCATION OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Dwellings.
      (1)   Front setback. Twenty-five feet from property line to garage, 20
feet for the home;
      (2)   Side setback. Eight feet minimum on each side, except 20 feet
minimum for side fronting on a street. Variance can be given for odd-shaped
lots by the Planning Commission; and
      (3)   Rear setback. Rear lot line must average 22 feet.
   (B)   Non-residential main buildings (lots that do not have a residential
unit).
      (1)   Front setback. Twenty feet from property lines;
      (2)   Side setback. Ten feet minimum on each side, except 15 feet minimum
for side fronting on a street; and
      (3)   Rear setback. Twenty-two feet.
   (C)   Detached accessory structures. See West Haven Zoning Code §
157.605, Accessory Structures.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.050) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-
6-2019; Ord. 10-2020, passed 5-6-2020; Ord. 18-2022, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 15-
24, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 157.125 MAXIMUM STRUCTURE HEIGHT.
   (A)   Dwelling or other main building. Thirty-five feet; and
   (B)   Accessory structures. See West Haven Zoning Code §
157.605, Accessory Structures.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.060) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-
6-2019; Ord. 10-2020, passed 5-6-2020; Ord. 18-2022, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 15-
24, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 157.126 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   As provided in the city’s municipal code, §§
157.630 through
157.640.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.070) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.127 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   See §§
157.755 through
157.761.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.080) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 10-2020, passed 5-6-
2020)
§ 157.128 REGULATIONS FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS, CONTAINERS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures will not be allowed
in this Zone except for temporary new construction sites with a valid current
building permit issued by the city. Temporary storage units, containers, or
structures must be removed within 30 days of completion or abandonment of
construction or permit expiration, whichever comes first.
   (B)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
moving and are allowed on a hard surface in a Residential Zone for up to 14
days for the outgoing resident and an additional 14 days for the incoming
resident.
   (C)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
remodeling projects in established neighborhoods for a period of up to 120 days
if placed in the driveway of a residence and up to six months if placed behind
a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to obscure the view
of the unit, container, or structure from the road. A valid current building
permit is required.
   (D)   Permanent use of these temporary storage units, containers, or
structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or Agricultural Zone on lots
of less than one acre. One storage unit may be allowed per acre with a land use
permit, which shall include a site plan and any required building permits. A
temporary storage unit, container, or structure shall be placed on a hard
surface such as gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt. Note, the maximum
number of temporary storage units, containers, or structures is one unit per
two acres, then one per additional acre with a conditional use permit. The
storage container must be placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuildings, or
other obstruction as to obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure
from the road.
   (E)   The city has no obligation or responsibility to research and enforce
an applicant’s property’s existing private covenants, conditions, or
restrictions prohibiting the use of temporary, or permanent use of, storage
units, containers, or structures. It is the exclusive responsibility of a
property owner to research and have full knowledge and understanding of those
private covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with, and are attached
to, their property.
   (F)   By submitting an application to the city for a permanent or temporary
storage unit, container, or structure, the applicant is certifying that they
have full knowledge and understanding of those private covenants, conditions,
or restrictions that run with their property and have a full understanding of
whether those items prohibit the use of temporary or permanent storage units,
containers, or structures.
   (G)   All tractor trailers on an agricultural, residential, or commercial
parcel shall be licensed and registered with the state and must be actively
used. Trailers not involved in a construction project that remain in a fixed
location over 30 days shall be subject to fines, impoundment, and removal by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.090) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021, passed
7-21-2021)
§ 157.129 ENFORCEMENT AND FINES.
   (A)   Enforcement and fines. Upon a determination that a violation exists,
the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, will contact the owner
and shall require such owner to halt, eradicate, destroy, remove, or otherwise
cure the violation within 48 hours, or such later time the Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee, may determine.
   (B)   Pre-existing conditions. In the instance of an existing storage unit,
container, or structure that has been established for a permanent use, the
owner shall have a pre-existing right, shall be a legally nonconforming use,
and shall not be required to come into compliance with the new requirements
adopted July 21, 2021. The following conditions do, however, apply to any such
unit(s) as of the adoption of the original ordinance on April 10, 2020:
      (1)   Residential and Agriculture Zones. Temporary storage units,
containers, or structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or
Agricultural Zone on lots of less than one acre. The storage container must be
placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuildings, or other obstruction as to
obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure from the road; and
      (2)   Commercial and Manufacturing Zones. A temporary storage unit,
container, or structure shall not be allowed in any Commercial or Manufacturing
Zone on lots of less than one acre. It must be placed on a hard surface such as
gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt, and made to look like the main
structure on the property, including the use of similar building materials and
colors.
   (C)   Temporary storage units. If the temporary storage unit, container, or
structure is moved or otherwise modified, the property owner would have to
comply to all requirements under the current ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.090.0100) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021,
passed 7-21-2021)
R-2.5 ZONE (RESIDENTIAL)
§ 157.140 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   To provide for areas in appropriate locations where quiet, residential
neighborhoods may be established and protected. The regulations of this Zone
are designed to promote compatible land uses consistent with a suburban
environment enjoyed by residents within the Zone. With proper controls that
ensure the integrity of the Zone, alternate forms of residential living are
provided for by allowing flexibility in housing type, preference, and cost.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.010) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-
6-2019)
§ 157.141 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses and buildings;
   (B)   Agriculture;
   (D)   Dwellings, single-family, and twin homes;
   (E)   Animals, in accordance with §§
157.865 through
157.868;
   (F)   Home occupations with no visiting clientele, in accordance with §§
157.880 through
157.883; and
   (G)   Pets, the keeping of household pets.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.020) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-
6-2019)
§ 157.142 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Conditions for approval shall be determined by the Planning Commission or
City Council as otherwise provided in §§
157.515 through
157.529:
   (A)   Churches (temporary churches held in open areas, tents, or in
temporary structures excluded);
   (B)   Group homes;
   (C)   Home occupations with visiting clientele in accordance with §§
157.880 through
157.883;
   (D)   Planned unit developments (PUDs);
   (E)   Public buildings and private and public utility buildings and uses;
   (F)   Public parks and/or playgrounds; also privately-owned playgrounds and
recreational grounds or parks not operated as a business, in whole or in part,
to which no admission charge is made; and
   (G)   Schools, public or privately owned.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.030) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-
6-2019)
§ 157.143 BUILDING LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Density. There shall be no more than two and one-half residential
units per acre contained within the boundaries of each phase of every
subdivision or planned unit development; except when previously-completed
phases of the same development have sufficiently low density so that the
average is still two and one-half residential units per acre or less. A twin
home shall count as two residential units.
   (B)   Lot area. There shall be a minimum of 10,000 square feet for single-
family and 12,500 square feet for twin homes in each lot. When a variety of lot
sizes are used, the larger will be placed against existing lots.
   (C)   Lot width. Minimum lot width is 80 feet, and 100 feet for twin home
lots. Corner lots shall be 85 feet. Variances may be granted for odd-shaped
lots by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Buffer. All lots contiguous to an A-1, A-2, or R-1 Zone are to be a
minimum of 16,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.040) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-
6-2019; Ord. 19-2020, passed 5-20-2020; Ord. 05-2022, passed 3- -2022)
§ 157.144 LOCATION OF STRUCTURES.
   All buildings and structures shall be located as provided in §§
157.730 through
157.737 as follows:
   (A)   Dwellings.
      (1)   Front setback. Twenty-five feet from the property line to garage;
twenty feet for the home;
      (2)   Side setback. Eight feet minimum on each side, except 20 feet
minimum for a side fronting on a street. Variance can be given for odd-shaped
lots by the Planning Commission; and
      (3)   Rear setback. The rear lot line has to average 22 feet.
   (B)   Non-residential main buildings (lots that do not have a residential
unit).
      (1)   Front setback. Twenty-five feet from the property line;
      (2)   Side setback. Ten feet minimum on each side, except 20 feet minimum
for side fronting on a street; and
      (3)   Rear setback. Twenty-two feet.
   (C)   Accessory structures. See West Haven Zoning Code § 157.605, Accessory
Structures.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.050) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-
6-2019; Ord. 19-2020, passed 5-20-2020; Ord. 18-2022, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 15-
24, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 157.145 MAXIMUM STRUCTURE HEIGHT.
   (A)   Dwelling or other main building. Thirty-five feet; and
   (B)   Accessory structures. See West Haven Zoning Code §
157.605, Accessory Structures.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.060) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 19-2020, passed 5-
20-2020; Ord. 18-2022, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 15-24, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 157.146 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   As provided in §§
157.630 through
157.640.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.070) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.147 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   See §§
157.755 through
157.761.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.080) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 19-2020, passed 5-
20-2020)
§ 157.148 REGULATIONS FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS, CONTAINERS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures will not be allowed
in this Zone except for temporary new construction sites with a valid current
building permit issued by the city. Temporary storage units, containers, or
structures must be removed within 30 days of completion or abandonment of
construction or permit expiration, whichever comes first.
   (B)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
moving and are allowed on a hard surface in a Residential Zone for up to 14
days for the outgoing resident and an additional 14 days for the incoming
resident.
   (C)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
remodeling projects in established neighborhoods for a period of up to 120 days
if placed in the driveway of a residence and up to six months if placed behind
a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to obscure the view
of the unit, container, or structure from the road. A valid current building
permit is required.
   (D)   Permanent use of these temporary storage units, containers, or
structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or Agricultural Zone on lots
of less than one acre. One storage unit may be allowed per acre with a land use
permit, which shall include a site plan and any required building permits. A
temporary storage unit, container, or structure shall be placed on a hard
surface such as gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt. Note, the maximum
number of temporary storage units, containers, or structures is one unit per
two acres, then one per additional acre with a conditional use permit. The
storage container must be placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or
other obstruction as to obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure
from the road.
   (E)   The city has no obligation or responsibility to research and enforce
an applicant’s property’s existing private covenants, conditions, or
restrictions prohibiting the use of temporary, or permanent use of, storage
units, containers, or structures. It is the exclusive responsibility of a
property owner to research and have full knowledge and understanding of those
private covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with, and are attached
to, their property. By submitting an application to the city for a permanent or
temporary storage unit, container, or structure, the applicant is certifying
that they have full knowledge and understanding of those private covenants,
conditions, or restrictions that run with their property and have a full
understanding of whether those items prohibit the use of temporary or permanent
storage units, containers, or structures.
   (F)   All tractor trailers on an agricultural, residential, or commercial
parcel shall be licensed and registered with the state and must be actively
used. Trailers not involved in a construction project that remain in a fixed
location over 30 days shall be subject to fines, impoundment, and removal by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.090) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021, passed
7-21-2021)
§ 157.149 ENFORCEMENT AND FINES.
   (A)   Enforcement and fines. Upon a determination that a violation exists,
the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, will contact the owner
and shall require such owner to halt, eradicate, destroy, remove, or otherwise
cure the violation within 48 hours, or such later time the Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee, may determine.
   (B)   Pre-existing conditions. In the instance of an existing storage unit,
container, or structure that has been established for a permanent use, the
owner shall have a pre-existing right, shall be a legally nonconforming use,
and shall not be required to come into compliance with the new requirements
adopted July 21, 2021. The following conditions do, however, apply to any such
unit(s) as of the adoption of the original ordinance on April 10, 2020:
      (1)   Residential and Agriculture Zones. Temporary storage units,
containers, or structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or
Agricultural Zone on lots of less than one acre. The storage container must be
placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuildings, or other obstruction as to
obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure from the road.
      (2)   Commercial and Manufacturing Zones. A temporary storage unit,
container, or structure shall not be allowed in any Commercial or Manufacturing
Zone on lots of less than one acre. It must be placed on a hard surface such as
gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt, and made to look like the main
structure on the property, including the use of similar building materials and
colors.
   (C)   Temporary storage units. If the temporary storage unit, container, or
structure is moved or otherwise modified, the property owner would have to
comply to all requirements under the current ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.090.0100) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021,
passed 7-21-2021)
R-1 ZONE (RESIDENTIAL LOW DENSITY)
§ 157.160 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   To provide for areas in appropriate locations where quiet, low density
residential neighborhoods may be established and protected. The regulations of
this Zone are designed to promote compatible land uses consistent with a
suburban environment enjoyed by residents within the Zone. Residential
development with flexibility to allow the preservation of the open space/rural
character of the city without increasing the overall density of one residential
unit per acre of land.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.010) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.161 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses and buildings;
   (B)   Agriculture;
   (C)   Dwellings, single-family;
   (D)   Animal keeping (see §§
157.865 through
157.868);
   (E)   Home occupations, except preschools and day cares; and
   (F)   Pets; the keeping of household pets.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.020) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2015, passed 1-7-
2015; Ord. 20-2020, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 157.162 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Conditions for approval shall be determined by the Planning Commission or
City Council as otherwise provided in §§
157.515 through
157.529:
   (A)   Church (temporary churches held in open areas, tents, or in temporary
structures excluded);
   (B)   Day care centers and preschools, within residence only, and on minimum
one-half acre lot;
   (C)   Excavations of over 200 cubic yards, as allowed by §§
152.50 through
152.57 and
152.99;
   (D)   Golf courses, public or privately owned, whether or not operated as a
business;
   (E)   Group homes;
   (F)   Planned dwelling groups;
   (G)   Planned unit developments (PUDs);
   (H)   Public buildings, and private and public utility buildings and uses;
   (I)   Public parks and/or playgrounds; also, privately-owned playgrounds and
recreational grounds or parks not operated as a business, in whole or in part,
to which no admission charge is made; and
   (J)   Schools, public or privately owned.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.030) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.163 BUILDING LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Density. There shall be no more than one residential unit per acre
contained within the boundaries of each phase of every subdivision or planned
unit development; except when previously completed phases of the same
development have sufficiently low density so that the average is still one
residential unit per acre or less.
   (B)   Lot area. There shall be a minimum of 20,000 square feet in each lot.
When a variety of lot sizes are used, the larger will be place against existing
lots whenever possible.
   (C)   Lot width. Minimum lot width is 100 feet.
   (D)   Buffer. All lots contiguous to an A-1 or A-2 Zone are to be a minimum
of 20,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.040) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2015, passed 1-7-
2015; Ord. 20-2020, passed 5-20-2020; Ord. 05-2022, passed 3- -2022)
§ 157.164 LOCATION OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Dwellings.
      (1)   Front setback. Twenty-five feet from the property line to garage,
20 feet for the home;
      (2)   Side setback. Eight feet minimum on each side, except 20 feet
minimum for side fronting on a street. Variance can be given for odd-shaped
lots by the Planning Commission; and
      (3)   Rear setback. Rear lot line must average 22 feet.
   (B)   Non-residential main buildings (Lots that do not have a residential
unit).
      (1)   Front setback. Twenty feet from the property line;
      (2)   Side setback. Ten feet minimum on each side, except 15 feet minimum
for side fronting on a street; and
      (3)   Rear setback. Twenty-two feet.
   (C)   Accessory structures. See West Haven Zoning Code §
157.605, Accessory Structures.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.050) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2015, passed 1-7-
2015; Ord. 20-2020, passed 5-20-2020; Ord. 18-2022, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 15-
24, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 157.165 MAXIMUM STRUCTURE HEIGHT.
   (A)   Dwelling or other main building. Thirty-five feet; and
   (B)   Accessory structures. See West Haven Zoning Code §
157.605, Accessory Structures.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.060) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2015, passed 1-7-
2015; Ord. 20-2020, passed 5-20-2020; Ord. 18-2022, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 15-
24, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 157.166 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   As provided in §§
157.630 through
157.640.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.070) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.167 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   See §§
157.755 through
157.761.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.080) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2015, passed 1-7-
2015)
§ 157.168 REGULATIONS FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS, CONTAINERS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures will not be allowed
in this Zone except for temporary new construction sites with a valid current
building permit issued by the city. Temporary storage units, containers, or
structures must be removed within 30 days of completion or abandonment of
construction or permit expiration, whichever comes first.
   (B)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
moving and are allowed on a hard surface in a Residential Zone for up to 14
days for the outgoing resident and an additional 14 days for the incoming
resident.
   (C)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
remodeling projects in established neighborhoods for a period of up to 120 days
if placed in the driveway of a residence and up to six months if placed behind
a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to obscure the view
of the unit, container, or structure from the road. A valid current building
permit is required.
   (D)   Permanent use of these temporary storage units, containers, or
structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or Agricultural Zone on lots
of less than one acre. One storage unit may be allowed per acre with a land use
permit, which shall include a site plan and any required building permits. A
temporary storage unit, container, or structure shall be placed on a hard
surface such as gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt. Note, the maximum
number of temporary storage units, containers, or structures is one unit per
two acres, then one per additional acre with a conditional use permit. The
storage container must be placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or
other obstruction as to obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure
from the road.
   (E)   The city has no obligation or responsibility to research and enforce
an applicant’s property’s existing private covenants, conditions, or
restrictions prohibiting the use of temporary or permanent use of storage
units, containers, or structures. It is the exclusive responsibility of a
property owner to research and have full knowledge and understanding of those
private covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with, and are attached
to, his or her property.
   (F)   By submitting an application to the city for a permanent or temporary
storage unit, container, or structure, the applicant is certifying that he or
she have full knowledge and understanding of those private covenants,
conditions, or restrictions that run with he or she property and have a full
understanding of whether those items prohibit the use of temporary or permanent
storage units, containers, or structures.
   (G)   All tractor trailers on an agricultural, residential, or commercial
parcel shall be licensed and registered with the state and must be actively
used. Trailers not involved in a construction project that remain in a fixed
location over 30 days shall be subject to fines, impoundment and removal by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.090) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021, passed
7-21-2021)
§ 157.169 ENFORCEMENT AND FINES.
   (A)   Enforcement and fines. Upon a determination that a violation exists,
the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, will contact the owner
and shall require such owner to halt, eradicate, destroy, remove, or otherwise
cure the violation within 48 hours, or such later time the Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee, may determine.
   (B)   Pre-existing conditions. In the instance of an existing storage unit,
container, or structure that has been established for a permanent use, the
owner shall have a pre-existing right, shall be a legally nonconforming use,
and shall not be required to come into compliance with the new requirements
adopted July 21, 2021. The following conditions do, however, apply to any such
unit(s) as of the adoption of the original ordinance on April 10, 2020:
      (1)   Residential and Agriculture Zones. Temporary storage units,
containers, or structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or
Agricultural Zone on lots of less than one acre. The storage container must be
placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuildings, or other obstruction as to
obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure from the road.
      (2)   Commercial and Manufacturing Zones. A temporary storage unit,
container, or structure shall not be allowed in any Commercial or Manufacturing
Zone on lots of less than one acre. It must be placed on a hard surface such as
gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt, and made to look like the main
structure on the property, including the use of similar building materials and
colors.
   (C)   Temporary storage unit. If the temporary storage unit, container, or
structure is moved or otherwise modified, the property owner would have to
comply to all requirements under the current ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.090.0100) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021,
passed 7-21-2021)
R-4 ZONE (RESIDENTIAL MODERATE TO HIGHER DENSITY)
§ 157.180 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   To provide for areas in appropriate locations where quiet, higher density
residential neighborhoods may be established and protected. The regulations of
this Zone are designed to promote compatible land uses consistent with a
suburban environment enjoyed by residents within the Zone. With proper controls
that ensure the integrity of the Zone, alternate forms of residential living
are provided for by allowing flexibility in housing type, preference, and cost.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.010) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.181 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses and buildings (only behind homes);
   (B)   Dwellings, single-family;
   (C)   Home occupations, see §§
157.880 through
157.883; and
   (D)   Animals, in accordance with §§
157.865 through
157.868.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.020) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-
6-2019; Ord. 28-2020, passed 7-1-2020)
§ 157.182 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Conditions for approval shall be determined by the Planning Commission and
City Council, or as otherwise provided in §§
157.515 through
157.529:
   (A)   Churches (temporary churches held in the open area or in tents, or in
temporary structures excluded);
   (B)   Day care centers and preschools, whether held within a residence or in
a separate facility;
   (C)   Golf courses, public or privately owned, whether or not operated as a
business;
   (D)   Planned dwelling groups with a maximum of two dwellings;
   (E)   Public parks and/or playgrounds; also, privately owned playgrounds and
recreational grounds or parks not operated as a business, in whole or in part,
and to which no admission charge is made; and
   (F)   Schools, public or privately owned.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.030) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-
6-2019)
§ 157.183 BUILDING LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Density. There shall be no more than four building lots per acre
contained within the boundaries of each phase of every subdivision or planned
unit development; except when previously completed phases of the same
development have sufficiently low density so that the average is still four
building lots per acre or less.
   (B)   Lot area.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum of 8,000 square feet for single family in
each lot.
      (2)   For buffer areas, there shall be a minimum of 12,500 square feet
for single-family in a lot if the lot is adjacent to an A-1 or R-1 Zone. There
shall be a minimum of 12,500 square feet for single family in a lot if the lot
is adjacent to an A-2 or R-2 Zone. There shall be a minimum of 8,000 square
feet for single-family in a lot if the lot is adjacent to a R-2.5 Zone.
   (C)   Lot width. Minimum lot width shall be 65 feet. The average lot width
of all lots is 72 feet. Only 25% of the lots can have a 65-foot lot width.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.040)
   (D)   Acreage requirement. For the purpose of application of the
requirements of this section, R-4 Zone, one acre is 43,560 square feet and one-
half acre is 21,780 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.090)
(Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-6-2019; Ord. 28-2020,
passed 7-1-2020)
§ 157.184 LOCATION OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Dwellings.
      (1)   Front setback. Twenty-two feet from front line for garages, 15 feet
for the home;
      (2)   Side setback. Six feet minimum each side, 15 feet minimum for side
fronting on a street. A setback variance can be given by the Planning
Commission for odd-shaped lots; and
      (3)   Rear setback. The rear lot line must average 20 feet.
   (B)   (1)   Detached accessory buildings and garages.
      (2)   Accessory structures. See West Haven Zoning Code §
157.605, Accessory Structures.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.050) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-
6-2019; Ord. 28-2020, passed 7-1-2020; Ord. 18-2022, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 15-
24, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 157.185 MAXIMUM STRUCTURE HEIGHT.
   Main buildings or structures shall be 35 feet.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.060) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 36-2019, passed 11-
6-2019)
§ 157.186 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   As provided in §§
157.630 through
157.640.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.070) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.187 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   See §§
157.755 through
157.761.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.080) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.188 REGULATIONS FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS, CONTAINERS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures will not be allowed
in this Zone except for temporary new construction sites with a valid current
building permit issued by the city. Temporary storage units, containers, or
structures must be removed within 30 days of completion, or abandonment of
construction or permit expiration, whichever comes first.
   (B)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
moving and are allowed on a hard surface in a Residential Zone for up to 14
days for the outgoing resident and an additional 14 days for the incoming
resident.
   (C)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
remodeling projects in established neighborhoods for a period of up to 120 days
if placed in the driveway of a residence and up to six months if placed behind
a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to obscure the view
of the unit, container, or structure from the road. A valid current building
permit is required.
   (D)   Permanent use of these temporary storage units, containers, or
structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or Agricultural Zone on lots
of less than one acre. One storage unit may be allowed per acre with a land use
permit, which shall include a site plan and any required building permits. A
temporary storage unit, container, or structure shall be placed on a hard
surface such as gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt. Note, the maximum
number of temporary storage units, containers, or structures is one unit per
two acres, then one per additional acre with a conditional use permit. The
storage container must be placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or
other obstruction as to obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure
from the road.
   (E)   The city has no obligation or responsibility to research and enforce
an applicant’s property’s existing private covenants, conditions, or
restrictions prohibiting the use of temporary, or permanent use of storage
units, containers, or structures. It is the exclusive responsibility of a
property owner to research and have full knowledge and understanding of those
private covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with, and are attached
to, his or her property. By submitting an application to the city for a
permanent or temporary storage unit, container, or structure, the applicant is
certifying that he or she has full knowledge and understanding of those private
covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with his or her property and
have a full understanding of whether those items prohibit the use of temporary
or permanent storage units, containers, or structures.
   (F)   (1)   All tractor trailers on an agricultural, residential, or
commercial parcel shall be licensed and registered with the state and must be
actively used.
      (2)   Trailers not involved in a construction project that remain in a
fixed location over 30 days shall be subject to fines, impoundment, and removal
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.100) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021, passed
7-21-2021)
§ 157.189 ENFORCEMENT AND FINES.
   (A)   Enforcement and fines. Upon a determination that a violation exists,
the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, will contact the owner
and shall require such owner to halt, eradicate, destroy, remove, or otherwise
cure the violation within 48 hours, or such later time the Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee, may determine.
   (B)   Pre-existing conditions. In the instance of an existing storage unit,
container, or structure that has been established for a permanent use, the
owner shall have a pre-existing right, shall be a legally nonconforming use,
and shall not be required to come into compliance with the new requirements
adopted July 21, 2021. The following conditions do, however, apply to any such
unit(s) as of the adoption of the original ordinance on April 10, 2020:
      (1)   Residential and Agriculture Zones. Temporary storage units,
containers, or structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or
Agricultural Zone on lots of less than one acre. The storage container must be
placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to
obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure from the road.
      (2)   Commercial and Manufacturing Zones. A temporary storage unit,
container, or structure shall not be allowed in any Commercial or Manufacturing
Zone on lots of less than one acre. It must be placed on a hard surface such as
gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt, and made to look like the main
structure on the property, including the use of similar building materials and
colors.
   (C)   Temporary storage units. If the temporary storage unit, container, or
structure is moved or otherwise modified, the property owner would have to
comply to all requirements under the current ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.100.0100) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021,
passed 7-21-2021)
S-1G ZONE (SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL GRAVEL)
§ 157.200 USE REGULATIONS.
   In Suburban Residential Gravel Zone, S-1G, no building, structure, or land
shall be used, and no building or structure shall be erected, which is
arranged, intended, or designed to be used for other than one or more of the
following uses:
   (A)   Any use permitted in Residential Estates Zones RE-15 or RE-20;
   (B)   Sand and gravel excavation including crushers and concrete batching
plants, and asphalt plants, subject to all provisions of the §§
152.50 through
152.57, and
152.99. No unusual amounts of dust, smoke, fumes, noxious odors, vibration or
noise shall be disseminated beyond the boundaries of the Zone in which such use
is located;
   (C)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above, and
devoted exclusively to the main permitted use of the premises; and
   (D)   Only sand and gravel mined on the premises may be processed in any
crushing plant, concrete batching plant, and asphalt plant located on the lot
or premises.
(Prior Code, § 12.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.201 AREA, WIDTH, YARD, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Same as Agricultural Zone A-1, except that excavation and removal of
soil, sand, or gravel and accessory structures or buildings shall be located
and operated not closer than 100 feet from any public street, and not closer
than 50 feet from any property line.
   (B)   Provided, that gravel crushers, concrete batching plants, or asphalt
plants shall be located not closer than 600 feet from any Residential Zone or
Agricultural Zone boundary.
(Prior Code, § 12.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
S-2G ZONE (SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL GRAVEL)
§ 157.215 USE REGULATIONS.
   In Suburban Residential Gravel Zone, S-2G, no building, structure, or land
shall be used, and no building or structure shall be erected, which is
arranged, intended, or designed to be used for other than one or more of the
following uses:
   (A)   Any use permitted in Residential Estates Zones RE-15 or RE-20;
   (B)   Sand and gravel excavation including gravel crushing, subject to all
provisions of §§
152.50 through
152.57, and
152.99;
   (C)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above and
devoted exclusively to the main permitted use of the premises; and
   (D)   Only sand and gravel mined on the premises may be processed in any
crushing plant located on the lot or premises.
(Prior Code, § 14.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.216 AREA, WIDTH, YARD, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Same as Agricultural Zone A-1, except that gravel excavation and
accessory structures or buildings shall be located and operated not closer than
100 feet from any public street, and not closer than 50 feet from any property
line.
   (B)   Provided that, gravel crushers shall be located not closer than 600
feet from a residential zone boundary and 300 feet from any existing
residential structure, and not closer than 200 feet from any public street.
(Prior Code, § 14.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
A-1 ZONE (AGRICULTURAL)
§ 157.230 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of the A-1 Zone is to designate farm areas which are likely to
undergo a more intensive urban development, to set up guidelines to continue
agricultural pursuits, including the keeping of farm animals, and to direct
orderly low-density residential development in a continuing rural environment.
(Prior Code, § 16.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 10-2021, passed 2-17-
2021; Ord. 05-2022, passed 3- -2022)
§ 157.231 AGRICULTURE PREFERRED USE.
   Agriculture is the preferred use in Agricultural Zone A-1. All agriculture
operations shall be permitted at any time, including the operation of farm
machinery, and no agricultural use shall be subject to restriction because it
interferes with other uses permitted in the Zone.
(Prior Code, § 16.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.232 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to any permitted or
conditional use;
   (B)   Agriculture; agricultural experiment stations; apiaries; aviaries; and
aquariums;
   (C)   Animals or fowl, as outlined in §§
157.865 through
157.868;
   (D)   Cemeteries; child day care, convalescent, or rest home;
   (E)   Churches, synagogues, or similar buildings used for regular religious
worship;
   (F)   Corrals, stable buildings, or loafing shed for keeping animals or
fowl, as outlined in §§
157.865 through
157.868;
   (G)   Fruit or vegetable stands for produce grown on the premises only;
   (H)   Golf courses, except miniature golf course;
   (I)   Home occupation. (See §§
157.880 through
157.883);
   (J)   Greenhouses and nurseries, limited to sale of materials on premises
and with no retail shop operations;
   (K)   Household pets;
   (L)   Parking lot accessoroes to uses allowed in this Zone;
   (M)   Private parks, playgrounds, or recreation areas, but not including
privately-owned commercial amusement businesses;
   (N)   Private stables; horses for private use only, as outlined in §§
157.865 through
157.868;
   (O)   Public buildings; public parks; recreation grounds and associated
buildings; public school; and private educational institution having a
curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in public schools;
   (P)   Residential facilities for persons with a disability meeting the
requirements of §§
157.950 through
157.955;
   (Q)   Single-family dwellings;
   (R)   Sugar beet loading or collection stations;
   (S)   Temporary buildings or uses incidental to construction work (see §
157.239); and
   (T)   School bus parking.
(Prior Code, § 16.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2006, passed 2-1-
2006; Ord. 03-2021, passed 2-3-2021)
§ 157.233 PERMITTED USE REQUIRING TWO ACRE MINIMUM LOT AREA.
   Two-family dwellings are permitted.
(Prior Code, § 16.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.234 PERMITTED USES REQUIRING FIVE ACRE MINIMUM LOT AREA.
   (A)   The use of farm equipment by a farm operation for off-farm contracting
work to supplement farm income; and
   (B)   Farm animal raising, as outline in §§
157.865 through
157.868.
(Prior Code, § 16.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2021, passed 2-3-
2021)
§ 157.235 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following shall be permitted only when authorized by a conditional use
permit obtained as provided in §§
157.515 through
157.529:
   (A)   Animal hospitals or clinics; and dog breeding, dog kennels, or dog
training schools, on a minimum of two acres and not exceeding ten dogs of more
than ten weeks old, per acre, at any time; provided, any building or enclosure
for animals shall be located not less than 100 feet from a public street and
not less than 50 feet from any side or rear property line;
   (B)   Greenhouses and nurseries limited to the sale of plants, landscaping
materials, fertilizer, pesticide and insecticide products, tools for garden and
lawn care, and the growing and sale of sod;
   (C)   Private parks, playgrounds, or recreation grounds and buildings not
open to the general public and to which no admission charge is made, but not
including privately-owned commercial amusement businesses;
   (D)   Private equestrian training and stable facilities on a minimum of five
acres of land and at a density of not more than ten horses per acre;
   (E)   Public equestrian training and stable facilities on a tract of land
with a minimum of ten acres in area and at a density of not more than five
horses per acre;
   (F)   Public utility facilities, including, but not limited to, substations,
culinary water treatment and/or storage facilities developed by a public agency
meeting the requirements of §§
157.655 through
157.662 as well as the standards of the state. Wastewater treatment or disposal
facilities are excluded;
   (G)   The slaughtering, dressing, and marketing on a commercial scale of
chickens, turkeys, or other fowl, rabbits, fish, frogs, or beaver in
conjunction with the hatching and raising of such animals on farms having a
minimum area of five acres;
   (H)   The overnight parking of not more than one vehicle other than an
automobile, light truck, or recreational vehicle of not more than 24,000 pounds
net weight, on property of not less than one acre in area and upon which the
operator has his or her permanent residence; provided that the vehicle is
parked at least 50 feet from a public street; and
   (I)   The storage and use of light construction equipment, such as a
backhoe, front end loader, or up to a ten-wheel truck for off-premises contract
work by the owner or resident of the property.
(Prior Code, § 16.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2021, passed 2-3-
2021)
§ 157.236 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
 
Site Development                     Permitted and Conditional Uses Permitted Uses Requiring Two-
                                                                    and Five-Acre Minimum
Building height, single family
dwelling                             One story                      One story
   Minimum                        35 ft.                         35 ft.
   Maximum
Building height, accessory           See West Haven Zoning Code §  See West Haven Zoning Code §
                                     157.605, Accessory Structures  157.605, Accessory Structures
Minimum lot area                     20,000 sq. ft.                 2 acres, 5 acres
                                     150 ft. over 40,000 sq. ft.
Minimum lot width                    125 ft., 20,00 to 40,000 sq.   150 ft.
                                     ft.
                                     Not less than 30 ft. back from
Minimum yard setbacks                the edge of the dedicated and/ Not less than 30 ft. back from
Front                                or projected road right-of-way the edge of the dedicated and/
                                    where that right-of-way abuts  or projected road where right-
                                    the affected property          of-way abuts the affected
Rear                                 See West Haven Zoning Code §  property
                                    157.605, Accessory Structures  See West Haven Zoning Code §
    Main building                 30 ft.                         157.605, Accessory Structures
Side                                 See West Haven Zoning Code §  30 ft.
                                    157.605, Accessory Structures  See West Haven Zoning Code §
   Dwelling                       10 ft. with total width of two 157.605, Accessory Structures
   Other main building            side yards not less than 24
   Side, facing street corner lot ft.                            20 ft. each side
   Dwelling                       20 ft. each side               See West Haven Zoning Code §
                                    See West Haven Zoning Code §  157.605, Accessory Structures
                                     157.605,Accessory Structures   20 ft.
                                     20 ft.
 
(Prior Code, § 16.14) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2021, passed 2-3-
2021; Ord. 18-2022, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 15-24, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 157.237 SUBDIVIDING LOTS IN A PLATTED SUBDIVISION.
   In order to subdivide any existing lot in a platted subdivision in an A-
1 Zone, the parcel to be subdivided must:
   (A)   Contain not less than 80,000 square feet before the proposed division;
and
   (B)   The density cannot be increased beyond that of the then-existing Zone.
(Prior Code, § 16.16) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 14-2015, passed 8-5-
2015; Ord. 10-2021, passed 2-17-2021)
§ 157.238 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See §§
157.755 through
157.761.
(Prior Code, § 16.18) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2021, passed 2-3-
2021)
§ 157.239 REGULATIONS FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS, CONTAINERS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures will not be allowed
in this Zone except for temporary new construction sites with a valid current
building permit issued by the city. Temporary storage units, containers, or
structures must be removed within 30 days of completion or abandonment of
construction or permit expiration, whichever comes first.
   (B)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
moving and are allowed on a hard surface in a Residential Zone for up to 14
days for the outgoing resident and an additional 14 days for the incoming
resident.
   (C)   (1)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used
for remodeling projects in established neighborhoods for a period of up to 120
days if placed in the driveway of a residence and up to six months if placed
behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to obscure the
view of the unit, container, or structure from the road.
      (2)   A valid current building permit is required.
      (3)   Permanent use of these temporary storage units, containers, or
structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or Agricultural Zone on lots
of less than one acre. One storage unit may be allowed per acre with a land use
permit, which shall include a site plan and any required building permits.
      (4)   A temporary storage unit, container, or structure shall be placed
on a hard surface such as gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt. Note, the
maximum number of temporary storage units, containers, or structures is one
unit per two acres, then one per additional acre with a conditional use permit.
      (5)   The storage container must be placed behind a home, solid fence,
outbuilding, or other obstruction as to obscure the view of the unit,
container, or structure from the road.
   (D)   The city has no obligation or responsibility to research and enforce
an applicant’s property’s existing private covenants, conditions, or
restrictions prohibiting the use of temporary, or permanent use of, storage
units, containers, or structures. It is the exclusive responsibility of a
property owner to research and have full knowledge and understanding of those
private covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with, and are attached
to, his or her property. By submitting an application to the city for a
permanent or temporary storage unit, container, or structure, the applicant is
certifying that he or she has full knowledge and understanding of those private
covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with his or her property and
have a full understanding of whether those items prohibit the use of temporary
or permanent storage units, containers, or structures.
   (E)   All tractor trailers on an agricultural, residential, or commercial
parcel shall be licensed and registered with the state and must be actively
used. Trailers not involved in a construction project that remain in a fixed
location over 30 days shall be subject to fines, impoundment, and removal by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 16.30) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 10-2021, passed 2-
17-2021; Ord. 29-2021, passed 7-21-2021)
§ 157.240 ENFORCEMENT AND FINES.
   (A)   Enforcement and fines. Upon a determination that a violation exists,
the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, will contact the owner
and shall require such owner to halt, eradicate, destroy, remove, or otherwise
cure the violation within 48 hours, or such later time as the Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee, may determine.
   (B)   Pre-existing conditions. In the instance of an existing storage unit,
container, or structure that has been established for a permanent use, the
owner shall have a pre-existing right, shall be a legally nonconforming use,
and shall not be required to come into compliance with the new requirements
adopted July 21, 2021. The following conditions do however apply to any such
unit(s) as of the adoption of the original ordinance on April 10, 2020:
      (1)    Residential and Agriculture Zones. Temporary storage units,
containers, or structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or
Agricultural Zone on lots of less than one acre. The storage container must be
placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to
obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure from the road.
      (2)   Commercial and Manufacturing Zones. A temporary storage unit,
container, or structure shall not be allowed in any Commercial or Manufacturing
Zone on lots of less than one acre. It must be placed on a hard surface such as
gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt, and made to look like the main
structure on the property, including the use of similar building materials and
colors.
   (C)   Temporary storage units. If the temporary storage unit, container, or
structure is moved or otherwise modified, the property owner would have to
comply to all requirements under the current ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 16.30.010) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021, passed
7-21-2021)
A-2 ZONE (AGRICULTURAL)
§ 157.255 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of the A-2 Zone is to designate farming areas where agricultural
pursuits and the rural should be promoted and preserved.
(Prior Code, § 18.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.256 AGRICULTURE PREFERRED USE.
   Agriculture is the preferred use in Agricultural Zone A-2. All agricultural
operations shall be permitted at any time, including the operation of farm
machinery, and no agricultural use shall be subject to restriction because it
interferes with other uses permitted in the Zone.
(Prior Code, § 18.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.257 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to any permitted or
conditional use;
   (B)   Agriculture; agricultural experiment stations; apiaries; aviaries; and
aquariums;
   (C)   Animals or fowl, as outlined in §§
157.865 through
157.868;
   (D)   Cemeteries, child day care;
   (E)   Churches, synagogues, or similar building used for regular religious
worship;
   (F)   Corrals, stable buildings, or loafing sheds for keeping animals or
fowl, as outlined in §§
157.865 through
157.868;
   (G)   Fruit or vegetable stands for produce grown on the premises only;
   (H)   Golf courses, except miniature golf courses;
   (I)   Greenhouses and nurseries, limited to sale of materials produced on
the premises and with no retail shop operation;
   (J)   Home occupation (see §§
157.880 through
157.883);
   (K)   Household pets;
   (L)   Parking lot accessories to uses allowed in this Zone;
   (M)   Private parks, playgrounds, or recreation areas, but not including
privately-owned commercial amusement business;
   (N)   Private stables; horses for private use, as outlined in §§
157.865 through
157.868;
   (O)   Public buildings; public parks; recreation grounds and associated
buildings; public school; and private education institutions having a
curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in public schools;
   (P)   Single-family dwellings;
   (Q)   Sugar beet loading or collection stations and dump sites;
   (R)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work (see §
157.263); and
   (S)   School bus parking
(Prior Code, § 18.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 04-2021, passed 2-3-
2021)
§ 157.258 PERMITTED USES REQUIRING FIVE ACRE MINIMUM LOT AREA.
   (A)   Golf driving ranges;
   (B)   Grain storage elevators;
   (C)   Public stables;
   (D)   The use of farm equipment by a farm operation for off-farm contracting
work to supplement farm income; and
   (E)   Farm animal raising, as outlined in §§
157.865 through
157.868.
(Prior Code, § 18.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 04-2021, passed 2-3-
2021)
§ 157.259 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted only when authorized by a conditional
use permit obtained provided in §§
157.515 through
157.529:
   (A)   Airports, private and commercial;
   (B)   Animal hospitals or clinics, dog breeding, dog kennels, or dog
training school, on a minimum of two acres and not exceeding ten dogs of more
than ten weeks old, per acre, at any time; provided any building or enclosure
for animals shall be located not less than 100 feet from any public street and
not less than 50 feet from any side or rear property line;
   (C)   Commercial campgrounds and picnic areas meeting the requirements of
the city;
   (D)   Gun clubs;
   (E)   Greenhouses and nurseries limited to the sale of plants, landscaping
materials, fertilizer, pesticide and insecticide products, tools for garden and
lawn care, and growing and sale of sod;
   (F)   Outdoor recreation club activities for horse riding, bow and arrow
shooting, snowmobiling, and the like;
   (G)   Horse racing and training tracks, cutter racing tracks, including
indoor concessions as an accessory use;
   (H)   Private parks, playgrounds, or recreation areas not open to the
general public and to which no admission charge is made, but not including
privately-owned commercial business;
   (I)   Private equestrian training and stable facilities on a minimum of five
acres of land and at a density of not more than ten horses per acre;
   (J)   Public utility facilities, including, but not limited to, substations,
culinary water treatment, and/or storage facilities developed by a public
agency meeting the requirements of §§
157.655 through
157.662 as well as the standards of the state. Wastewater treatment or disposal
facilities are excluded;
   (K)   Radio or television stations or towers;
   (L)   Residential facilities for handicapped persons meeting the
requirements of §§
157.950 through
157.955;
   (M)   Rodeo grounds;
   (N)   Skeet shooting ranges;
   (O)   The slaughtering, dressing, and marketing on a commercial scale of
chickens, turkeys, or other fowl, rabbits, fish, frogs, or beaver in
conjunction with the hatching and raising of such animals on farms having a
minimum area of five acres;
   (P)   The overnight parking of not more than one vehicle other than an
automobile, light truck, or recreation vehicle, of not more than 24,000 pounds
net weight, on property of not less than one acre in area and upon which the
operator has his or her permanent residence; provided that the vehicle is
parked at least 50 feet from a public street;
   (Q)   The storage and use of light construction equipment, such as a
backhoe, front end loader, or up to a ten-wheel truck for off-premises contract
work by the owner or resident of property of not less than five acres in area;
and
   (R)   Turf horse-jumping courses.
(Prior Code, § 18.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 04-2021, passed 2-3-
2021)
§ 157.260 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
Site Development Permitted Conditional Uses Permitted Uses Requiring Two and
                                            Five Acres Minimum
Site Development       Permitted Conditional Uses     Permitted Uses Requiring Two
                                                      and Five Acres Minimum
Building height,
single family dwelling
   Minimum          One story                      One story
   Maximum          35 ft.                         35 ft.
Building height,       See West Haven Zoning Code §  See West Haven Zoning Code §
accessory              157.605, Accessory Buildings   157.605, Accessory Buildings
Minimum lot area
   Minimum lot width150 ft.                        300 ft.
   Other            2 acres                        5 acres
   Single-family    40,000 sq. ft.                 -
dwelling
Minimum yard setbacks
                       Not less than 30 ft. back from Not less than 30 ft. back from
                       the edge of the dedicated and/ the edge of the dedicated and/
   Front            or projected road right-of-way or projected road right-of-way
                       where that right-of-way abuts  where that right-of-way abuts
                       the affected property          the affected property
   Rear
                      See West Haven Zoning Code §  See West Haven Zoning Code §
                       157.605, Accessory Buildings   157.605, Accessory Buildings
      Main buildi30 ft.                         30 ft.
   Side
                      See West Haven Zoning Code §  See West Haven Zoning Code §
                       157.605, Accessory Buildings   157.605, Accessory Buildings
                       10 ft. with total width of 2
      Dwelling   side yards not less than 24
                       ft.
      Other main 20 ft. each side
building
   Side facing street
                      See West Haven Zoning Code §  See West Haven Zoning Code §
                       157.605, Accessory Buildings   157.605, Accessory Buildings
      Dwelling   20 ft.                         20 ft.
 
(Prior Code, § 18.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 04-2021, passed 2-3-
2021; Ord. 18-2022, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 157.261 SUBDIVIDING LOTS IN A PLATTED SUBDIVISION.
   In order to subdivide any existing lot in a platted subdivision in an A-
2 Zone, the parcel to be subdivided must:
   (A)   Contain not less than 80,000 square feet before the proposed division;
and
   (B)   The density cannot be increased beyond that of the then-existing zone.
(Prior Code, § 18.14) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 14-2015, passed 8-5-
2015; Ord. 11-2021, passed 2-17-2021)
§ 157.262 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   See §§
157.755 through
157.761.
(Prior Code, § 18.16) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 04-2021, passed 2-3-
2021)
§ 157.263 REGULATIONS FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS, CONTAINERS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures will not be allowed
in this Zone except for temporary new construction sites with a valid current
building permit issued by the city. Temporary storage units, containers, or
structures must be removed within 30 days of completion or abandonment of
construction or permit expiration, whichever comes first.
   (B)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
moving and are allowed on a hard surface in a Residential Zone for up to 14
days for the outgoing resident and an additional 14 days for the incoming
resident.
   (C)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
remodeling projects in established neighborhoods for a period of up to 120 days
if placed in the driveway of a residence and up to six months if placed behind
a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to obscure the view
of the unit, container, or structure from the road. A valid current building
permit is required. Permanent use of these temporary storage units, containers,
or structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or Agricultural Zone on
lots of less than one acre. One storage unit may be allowed per acre with a
land use permit, which shall include a site plan and any required building
permits. A temporary storage unit, container, or structure shall be placed on a
hard surface such as gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt. Note, the maximum
number of temporary storage units, containers, or structures is one unit per
two acres, then one per additional acre with a conditional use permit. The
storage container must be placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or
other obstruction as to obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure
from the road.
   (D)   The city has no obligation or responsibility to research and enforce
an applicant’s property’s existing private covenants, conditions, or
restrictions prohibiting the use of temporary, or permanent use of storage
units, containers, or structures. It is the exclusive responsibility of a
property owner to research and have full knowledge and understanding of those
private covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with, and are attached
to, his or her property. By submitting an application to the city for a
permanent or temporary storage unit, container, or structure, the applicant is
certifying that he or she has have full knowledge and understanding of those
private covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with his or her
property and have a full understanding of whether those items prohibit the use
of temporary or permanent storage units, containers, or structures.
   (E)   All tractor trailers on an agricultural, residential, or commercial
parcel shall be licensed and registered with the state and must be actively
used. Trailers not involved in a construction project that remain in a fixed
location over 30 days shall be subject to fines, impoundment, and removal by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.010) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 11-2021, passed
2-17-2021; Ord. 29-2021, passed 7-21-2021)
§ 157.264 ENFORCEMENT AND FINES.
   (A)   Enforcement and fines. Upon a determination that a violation exists,
the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, will contact the owner
and shall require such owner to halt, eradicate, destroy, remove, or otherwise
cure the violation within 48 hours, or such later time as the Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee, may determine.
   (B)   Pre-existing conditions. In the instance of an existing storage unit,
container, or structure that has been established for a permanent use, the
owner shall have a pre-existing right, shall be a legally nonconforming use,
and shall not be required to come into compliance with the new requirements
adopted July 21, 2021. The following conditions do, however, apply to any such
unit(s) as of the adoption of the original ordinance on April 10, 2020:
      (1)   Residential and Agriculture Zones. Temporary storage units,
containers, or structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or
Agricultural Zone on lots of less than one acre. The storage container must be
placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to
obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure from the road.
      (2)   Commercial and Manufacturing Zones. A temporary storage unit,
container, or structure shall not be allowed in any Commercial or Manufacturing
Zone on lots of less than one acre. It must be placed on a hard surface such as
gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt, and made to look like the main
structure on the property, including the use of similar building materials and
colors.
   (C)   Temporary storage units. If the temporary storage unit, container, or
structure is moved or otherwise modified, the property owner would have to
comply to all requirements under the current ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 18.16010.0100) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 11-2021,
passed 2-17-2021; Ord. 29-2021, passed 7-21-2021)
RESIDENTIAL MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK ZONE (RMHP)
§ 157.275 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of the RMHP Zone is to provide appropriate areas for suitable
development of mobile/manufactured home parks, camps, and courts. It is also to
ensure that such facilities receive adequate services and blend harmoniously
with surrounding residential neighborhoods and other uses.
(Prior Code, § 20.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.276 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any permitted
use;
   (B)   Mobile/manufactured home parks, trailer courts, and overnight
recreational vehicle parks; provided such parks or courts meet the requirements
and standards prescribed herein; and
   (C)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work. Such
building shall be removed within six months upon completion or abandonment of
the construction work.
(Prior Code, § 20.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.277 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
 
Site Development      Requirements
Minimum area          4 acres for a mobile/manufactured home park, trailer
                      court, and overnight recreational vehicle park
Minimum lot size      The yard, width, and layout for a trailer court or
                      overnight recreation vehicle park
Minimum lot width     Mobile/manufactured home park shall be as prescribed in
                      the city
Minimum yard setbacks Mobile home park ordinance
 
(Prior Code, § 20.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.278 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The height, size, and location of the following permitted signs shall be in
accordance with the regulations set forth in §§
157.755 through
157.761:
   (A)   Construction project sign;
   (B)   Directional sign;
   (C)   Flat sign;
   (D)   Freestanding sign;
   (E)   Temporary sign;
   (F)   Wall sign;
   (G)   Name plate;
   (H)   Property sign;
   (I)   Identification and information sign; and
   (J)   Service sign.
(Prior Code, § 20.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
C-1, C-2, C-3 ZONES (COMMERCIAL)
§ 157.290 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of the C (Commercial) Zoning Districts is intended to
provide area for commercial uses based on considerations such as the intensity
of the use, goods and services provided, and the market area. In all cases,
these Zoning Districts shall abut an arterial or major collector street. All
permitted uses in C-3 are allowed within the Manufacturing Zones.
      (1)   For the C-1 Zone: Neighborhood Commercial Zone is intended to
provide commercial services to an area of limited size for basic trade and
personal services which occur regularly or frequently. The major market area
for this Zoning District is the adjacent residential areas. This type of zoning
district should be located at the intersection of arterial or collector
streets. It services both pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
      (2)   For the C-2 Zone: Community Commercial Zone is to provide a range
of commercial uses greater than that of the C-1, but at a lower intensity than
the C-3 Regional Commercial Zone. The basic market for this Zoning District is
vehicular-oriented. This type of zoning district is best located at the
intersection of arterial streets.
      (3)   For the C-3 Zone: Regional Commercial Zone is to provide an area in
which a full range of commercial and professional uses may locate in a limited
area. The limited area of this Zoning District functions to heighten the
intensity of use, concentrate activity, and make it a community focal point.
These zoning districts should abut major arterial streets and be located near
freeway access, as well as mass transit lines.
   (B)   COMMERCIAL AREA, COMMERCIAL ZONE shall mean any area of the city with
a zoning designation of C-1, C-2, C-3, CBD, PI, and PCR under this subchapter,
and the abutting public streets and public premises.
(Prior Code, § 22.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 13-2003, passed 9-17-
2003; Ord. 21-2021, passed 7-21-2021)
§ 157.291 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
Site Development C-1 C-2 C-3
Site Development    C-1                 C-2                 C-3
Building height
                                        35 ft. when
                    35 ft.; 25 ft. when adjacent to
Maximum             adjacent to         residential, no     None
                    residential         restriction if 150
                                        ft. from
                                        residential
Minimum             1 story             1 story             1 story
                    Not over 60% of lot
Maximum lot         area by buildings   Same                Same
coverage            or accessory
                    buildings
Minimum lot area    None                None                None
Minimum lot width   None                None                None
Minimum yard
setbacks
Front               15 ft.              15 ft.              15 ft.
                    None, except 10 ft. None, except 10 ft. None, except 10 ft.
Rear                where building      where building      where building
                    rears on a          rears on a          rears on a
                    Residential Zone    Residential Zone    Residential Zone
                    None, except 10 ft. None, except 10 ft. None, except 10 ft.
Side                to Residential Zone to Residential Zone to Residential Zone
                    boundary            boundary            boundary
Side, facing street 15 ft.              15 ft.              15 ft.
on corner lot
 
(Prior Code, § 22.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 21-2021, passed 7-21-
2021)
§ 157.292 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The height, size, and location of the permitted signs shall be in accordance
with the regulations set forth in §§
157.755 through
157.761.
(Prior Code, § 22.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 21-2021, passed 7-21-
2021)
§ 157.293 SPECIAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Hereinafter specified, permitted and conditional uses shall be
permitted only when the following conditions are complied with:
      (1)   All manufacturing shall be done within a completely enclosed
building;
      (2)   All uses shall be free from objection because of odor, dust, smoke,
or noise;
      (3)   In the C-1 neighborhood Commercial Zone, no entertainment, except
recorded music, shall be permitted in cafs, cafeterias, ice cream parlors, or
restaurants;
      (4)   All premises shall be clean and sanitary, free from all
accumulation of debris, filth, rubbish, garbage, or other offensive matter, and
also free from bedbugs, roaches, vermin, and rodents;
      (5)   The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse shall be so managed
as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding areas,
accident hazards, or air pollution. When rats or other rodents are known to be
in the premises, the operator shall take definite actions, as directed by the
Health Officer or other proper City Official, to exterminate them;
      (6)   All garbage shall be collected at least once each week. Where
public collection services are not available, the operator shall arrange for
all refuse to be collected and transported to a public disposal area in covered
vehicles or covered containers;
      (7)   All premises shall make provision for an enclosed area for the
storage of trash and garbage, which shall be constructed of moisture-resistant
material which will permit frequent washing and cleaning, and disinfecting as
necessary, without excessive deterioration; and
      (8)   All trash and garbage storage areas constructed and located as
required by this section shall be sited on premises such that a minimum of
negative visual impact, as reasonably determined by the city’s Building
Inspector, is maintained.
   (B)   A car wash shall be permitted subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   Off-street vehicle staging is required as follows:
         (a)   One-bay car wash: four spaces in the approach lane;
         (b)   Two-bay car wash: three spaces in the approach lane for each
wash bay; and
         (c)   Three or more bay car wash: two spaces in the approach lane for
each wash bay.
      (2)   Operation or use is forbidden between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m. in C-1 Zones only.
      (3)   There shall not be more than four washing bays for a manual spray
car wash in C-1 Zones only.
   (C)   Residential component can be included for a business as a conditional
use (for example, security purposes).
(Prior Code, § 22.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 04-2001, passed 5-16-
2001; Ord. 21-2021, passed 7-21-2021)
§ 157.294 USES.
   (A)   Abbreviations. In the following list of possible uses, those
designated in any zone as:
      (1)   “P” will be a permitted use;
      (2)   “C” will be allowed only when authorized by a conditional use
permit obtained in §§
157.515 through
157.529; and
      (3)   “N” will not be allowed in that zone.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Uses within Commercial Zones are as follows:
Use C-1 C-2 C-3
Use                                                                 C-1 C-2 C-3
A
Adult novelty, bookstore, video (see §§
157.540 through                                                     -   -   -
157.544)
Air conditioning, sales and service (HVAC)                          N   P   P
Altering, pressing, and repairing of wearing apparel                P   P   P
Amusement enterprises                                               N   C   C
Antique, import, or souvenir shop                                   C   P   P
Apartment, multi-family                                             N   N   N
Arcade                                                              P   P   P
Archery shop and range; provided, it is conducted within a          N   P   P
completely-enclosed building
Art and artist’s supply store                                     C   P   P
Assisted living center, medical rehabilitation                      C   C   C
Athletic and sporting goods store                                   C   P   P
Athletic club                                                       C   P   P
Auction establishment                                               N   C   C
Automobile, new or used, sales and service                          N   C   C
Automobile new parts sales and service                              N   P   P
Automobile maintenance service (lube, oil, brakes)                  N   P   P
Automobile repair, including paint, body and fender, brake,
muffler, upholstery, or transmission work; provided, it is          N   C   C
conducted within a completely-enclosed building
Awning sales and service                                            N   P   P
B
Bakery manufacture, limited to goods retailed on premises           P   P   P
Bank or financial institutions                                      P   P   P
Barber shop                                                         P   P   P
Batting cages, indoor or outdoor                                    N   C   P
Beauty culture school                                               N   P   P
Bed and breakfast hotel                                             N   C   P
Bed and breakfast inn                                               C   C   P
Beer club, bar (see “Tavern”)                                   -   -   -
Bicycle sales and service                                           C   P   P
Billiard parlor; no alcohol                                         C   P   P
Boat sales and service                                              N   C   P
Bookstore, retail                                                   P   P   P
Bottling and distribution plant                                     N   N   C
Bowling alley                                                       N   C   P
Boxing arena                                                        N   N   C
Building materials retail sales yard                                N   C   C
Bus terminal                                                        N   N   C
C
Caf or cafeteria                                                    P   P   P
Call center                                                         N   P   P
Camera store                                                        P   P   P
Candy store, confectionery                                          P   P   P
Cannabis, production and/or sales                                   N   N   P
Car wash, automatic (refer to §                                    N   C   P
157.293(B))
Car wash, manual spray (refer to §                                 C   P   P
157.293(B))
Car wash, stand alone                                               N   N   P
Carbonated water sales                                              C   P   P
Carpenter and cabinet shop                                          N   C   P
Catering establishment                                              C   C   P
China, crystal/silver shop                                          P   P   P
Christmas tree sales                                                C   C   P
Church; rent, cannot build                                          N   C   C
Church, temporary revival; rent, cannot build                       N   C   C
Circus, carnival, or other transient amusement                      N   N   C
Clinics, medical or dental                                          P   P   P
Clothing and accessory store                                        P   P   P
Coffee shop                                                         P   P   P
Communication equipment building                                    N   P   P
Contractor shop, provided work conducted within a completely        N   N   C
enclosed building
Convenience store                                                   N   C   C
Costume rental                                                      P   P   P
D
Dairy products store                                                P   P   P
Dance hall/minors/ non-alcoholic                                    N   C   C
Day care/preschool                                                  C   C   C
Delicatessen                                                        P   P   P
Department store                                                    N   P   P
Detective agency                                                    C   P   P
Diaper service, including cleaning                                  N   P   P
Drapery and curtain store (blinds, retail)                          P   P   P
Driving range; indoor                                               C   P   P
Drug store                                                          N   C   P
Dry cleaning establishment                                          N   C   P
Dry cleaning pickup station, no dry cleaning on premises            C   P   P
E
Education institution; post high school without housing             C   P   P
Educational institution; tutoring, learning centers                 C   P   P
Electrical and heating appliances and fixtures sales and service    N   P   P
Electronic equipment sales and service                              C   P   P
Employment agency                                                   N   P   P
Event center                                                        N   C   C
Express and transfer service                                        N   P   P
F   
Fabric and textile store                                            P   P   P
Farm implement sales                                                N   C   P
Flooring                                                            N   C   C
Florist shop                                                        P   P   P
Fruit store or stand                                                P   P   P
Fueling station; liquid natural gas (LNG)                           N   N   C
Fueling station; vehicles under 40,000 GVW                          N   C   P
Fueling station; vehicles under 40,000 GVW with car wash            N   C   P
Furniture sales and repair                                          C   P   P
Fur apparel sales, storage, or repair                               P   P   P
G   
Garden supplies and plant materials sales                           C   P   P
Gift store                                                          P   P   P
Glass sales and service                                             C   P   P
Go cart track; indoors                                              N   C   C
Golf course                                                         N   C   C
Government buildings or uses, non-industrial                        C   P   P
Greenhouse and nursery; soil and lawn service                       C   P   P
Grocery store                                                       N   P   P
Gun range; indoors                                                  N   C   C
Gun sales and service                                               N   C   C
Gunsmith                                                            C   P   P
Gymnasium                                                           C   P   P
H
Hardware store                                                      C   P   P
Health club                                                         C   P   C
Health food store                                                   P   P   P
Heavy equipment rental, sales, and service (only north of 3300 S)   N   C   C
Heliport                                                            N   N   C
Hobby and crafts store                                              P   P   P
Home improvement large box                                          N   C   C
Homeless shelter                                                    N   N   N
Hospital                                                            N   C   C
Hospital supplies                                                   C   P   P
Hotel                                                               N   C   P
House cleaning and repair                                           N   P   P
Household appliance sales and incidental service                    N   P   P
I
Ice cream manufacture                                               N   N   C
Ice cream parlor (small production allowed)                         P   P   P
Insulation sales                                                    N   C   C
Insurance agency                                                    P   P   P
Interior decorator and designing establishment                      P   P   P
J
Janitor sales service and supply                                    N   P   P
Jewelry store sales and service                                     P   P   P
K
Kennel; indoor with outdoor exercise area                           N   C   C
L
Laboratory, dental, or medical                                      N   P   P
Landscaping/yard care (only north of 3300 S)                        N   C   C
Launderette or laundromat                                           C   P   P
Lawn mower sales and service                                        N   P   P
Leather goods, sales, and service                                   P   P   P
Legal office                                                        P   P   P
Library public                                                      P   P   P
Linen store/retail                                                  P   P   P
Linen supply service                                                N   N   C
Liquor store                                                        N   N   C
Locksmith                                                           P   P   P
Lodge or social hall                                                N   N   C
Luggage store                                                       P   P   P
Lumber yard                                                         N   N   C
M
Machine shop operations incidental to any use permitted in C-       N   N   C
3 district
Manufacturer of goods retailed on premises                          N   C   C
Meat custom cutting and wrapping; excluding slaughtering            N   C   C
Meat, fish, and seafood store retail                                C   P   P
Miniature golf                                                      C   C   C
Mobile homes sales                                                  N   N   C
Monument works and sales                                            N   C   P
Mortuary                                                            N   P   P
Motel                                                               N   C   P
Motorcycle, ATVs, and motor scooters sales and service              N   C   C
Museum                                                              P   P   P
Music store                                                         P   P   P
N
Needlework, embroidery, or knitting store                           P   P   P
Nightclub or social club (only north of 3300 S)                     N   N   C
Novelty/souvenir store (non-adult)                                  P   P   P
Nursery school                                                      C   P   P
Nursing care facility                                               N   C   C
O
Office; general uses included, business, property management,       P   P   P
investment firms, advertising agency, secreterial services
Offices in which goods or merchandise are not commercially created, C   P   P
exchanged, or sold
Office machines sales and service                                   N   P   P
Office supply                                                       P   P   P
Optometrist, optician, or oculist                                   P   P   P
Ornamental iron sales or repair                                     N   C   C
P
Packaging and mailing sales/service                                 P   P   P
Paint or wallpaper store                                            N   P   P
Pallet repair and manufacturing                                     N   N   N
Parking lot or garage for passenger autos (for example, park and    N   C   C
ride) only within 1,000 ft. of I-15
Pawnshop                                                            N   N   C
Payday loans and service                                            N   N   C
Pest control and extermination                                      N   C   P
Pet and pet supply store                                            P   P   P
Pet grooming (no overnight stay)                                    C   P   P
Pharmacy                                                            P   P   P
Photo studio                                                        P   P   P
Photographic supplies                                               P   P   P
Physician or surgeon                                                C   P   P
Plumbing shop retail store                                          N   P   P
Popcorn or nut shop                                                 P   P   P
Post office                                                         N   P   P
Printing, copying, lithographing, publishing, or reproductions      N   C   P
sales and services
Private liquor club (only north of 3300 S)                          N   N   C
Propane sales as an accessory use                                   N   P   P
Public building                                                     C   C   C
Public utilities substation                                         C   C   C
Q
Quilting sales and service                                          P   P   P
R
Racquet club; indoors                                               N   P   P
Radio and television sales and service                              C   P   P
Radio, television of FM broadcasting station                        N   C   P
Real estate agency                                                  P   P   P
Reception center or wedding chapel                                  N   C   C
Recreation center                                                   C   C   C
Recreational vehicle/trailer storage (no permanent structures       N   N   C
greater than 800 sq. ft.)
Recycling center/collection                                         N   N   N
Rental agency for home and garden equipment                         N   C   P
Residential treatment facility                                      N   C   C
Restaurant; drive-in                                                C   C   P
Restaurant; no alcohol                                              C   P   P
Restaurant; serving alcohol                                         N   C   C
Restaurant with caberet (see §§
157.540 through                                                     -   -   -
157.544)
Retail sales establishment                                          C   P   P
Roller skating rink                                                 N   C   P
Roofing sales                                                       N   P   P
S
Salvage yard; storage and keeping of scrap materials, automobiles,  N   N   N
machinery
Sand blasting                                                       N   N   N
Second-hand store                                                   N   C   P
Seed and feed store, retail                                         N   C   P
Semi-truck fueling station; convenience store over 40,000 GVW (in   N   C   C
C-2 Zone, only north of 3300 S)
Sewing machine sales and service                                    P   P   P
Sexually-oriented business (see §§
157.540 through                                                     _   _   _
157.544)
Sheet metal shop and retinning; providing conducted within          N   N   C
completely-enclosed building
Shoe repair or shoeshine shop                                       P   P   P
Shoe store                                                          P   P   P
Sign manufacture or sign painting (see §§
157.755 through                                                     N   N   C
157.761)
Spa, including massage therapy                                      C   C   P
Storage units; self-storage                                         N   N   N
Supermarket                                                         N   C   P
T
Tailor shop                                                         P   P   P
Tanning salon                                                       C   P   P
Tattoo parlor (only north of 3300 S)                                N   C   C
Tavern/bar (only north of 3300 S)                                   N   C   C
Taxidermist                                                         N   C   C
Telecommunications tower                                            C   C   P
Temporary building for uses incidental to construction work; such   C   C   C
buildings shall be removed upon completion of construction work
Theater; live indoor                                                N   P   P
Theater; movie indoor                                               N   P   P
Theater; outdoor                                                    N   N   C
Tire recapping or retreading sales and service                      N   N   C
Tire sales and service                                              N   P   P
Tobacco shop; includes vape (only north of 3300 S)                  N   C   C
Toy store, retail                                                   C   P   P
Trade or industrial school                                          N   C   P
Trailer sales and service                                           N   C   P
Travel agency                                                       P   P   P
Tree trimming/arboriculture (only north of 3300 S)                  N   C   C
U
Upholstery shop                                                     C   P   P
Used car lot                                                        N   C   C
V
Variety store                                                       N   P   P
Vegetable store or stand                                            C   P   P
Ventilating equipment sales and service                             N   C   C
Veterinary (small and large animal with kennel services)            N   C   C
W
Warehouse (no manufacturing)                                        N   N   C
Welding shop                                                        N   N   C
Wholesale business                                                  N   N   C
Window washing establishment                                        C   C   P
 
   (C)   Undefined designation.
      (1)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall determine the
appropriate classification for each commercial application.
      (2)   In the event that no specific commercial designation, as outlined
in this section, is applicable to the use requested in the commercial
application, the City Manager, or his or her designee, shall review the
application and may make one of the following decisions:
         (a)   Determine the closest designation and whether a conditional use
permit is necessary;
         (b)   Shall forward the application to the Planning Commission for the
Commission to determine a designation, and whether a conditional use permit is
necessary; or
         (c)   Deny the application and issue findings regarding the reason for
the denial.
      (3)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, has the authority and may
approve the application of commercial entities that have little to no impact on
adjacent parcels or businesses.
      (4)   All determinations or denials by the City Manager, or his or her
designee, may be appealed to the Planning Commission for review.
(Prior Code, § 22.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 21-2021, passed 7-21-
2021)
§ 157.295 REGULATIONS FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS, CONTAINERS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures are allowed in
these Zones for the loading and off-loading of supplies or inventory. They may
be stored on-site for up to 30 days; provided they are not able to be seen from
any major corridor in the city, do not take up required customer parking, are
not on landscaping, and are placed behind buildings or fences that are not see
through. Any exception to this shall require a conditional use permit from the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   Permanent use of temporary storage units, containers, or structures
may be allowed with a conditional use permit, which shall include a site plan
and any required building permits. (Note: they shall not be allowed in any
Commercial or Manufacturing Zone(s) on lots of less than one acre.)
   (C)   A temporary storage unit, container, or structure must be placed on a
hard surface such as gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt, and made to look
like the main structure on the property, including the use of similar building
materials and colors. Any exceptions, as well as the number of units,
containers, or structures, and the location shall be subject to approval from
the Planning Commission.
   (D)   All tractor trailers on an agricultural, residential, or commercial
parcel shall be licensed and registered with the state and must be actively
used. Trailers not involved in a construction project that remain in a fixed
location for over 30 days shall be subject to fines, impoundment, and removal
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 22.12) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021, passed 7-
21-2021)
§ 157.296 ENFORCEMENT AND FINES.
   (A)   Enforcement and fines. Upon a determination that a violation exists,
the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, will contact the owner
and shall require such owner to halt, eradicate, destroy, remove, or otherwise
cure the violation within 48 hours, or such later time the Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee, may determine.
   (B)   Pre-existing conditions. In the instance of an existing storage unit,
container, or structure that has been established for a permanent use, the
owner shall have a pre-existing right, shall be a legally nonconforming use,
and shall not be required to come into compliance with the new requirements
adopted July 21, 2021. The following conditions do, however, apply to any such
unit(s) as of the adoption of the original ordinance on April 10, 2020:
      (1)   Residential and Agriculture Zones. Temporary storage units,
containers, or structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or
Agricultural Zone on lots of less than one acre. The storage container must be
placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to
obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure from the road.
      (2)   Commercial and Manufacturing Zones. A temporary storage unit,
container, or structure shall not be allowed in any Commercial or Manufacturing
Zone on lots of less than one acre. It must be placed on a hard surface such as
gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt, and made to look like the main
structure on the property, including the use of similar building materials and
colors.
   (C)   Temporary storage units. If the temporary storage unit, container, or
structure is moved or otherwise modified, the property owner would have to
comply to all requirements under the current ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 22.12.010) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021, passed
7-21-2021)
MIXED USE/MEDIUM/LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL ZONE
§ 157.310 PURPOSE; DEFINITION.
   (A)   (1)   The Mixed Use Zone is characterized as a pedestrian-friendly
Zone made up of developments which are required to contain two or more of the
following elements: open space, residential, recreational, cultural/
institutional, and/or commercial uses. Except as outlined in § 157.315(F) and
(G), no more than one element may occupy more than 80% of the net project size.
   (B)   Definitions. The below terms, as contained in this section, shall have
the following meaning(s):
      COMMUNITY CENTER. A building designed to be a public gathering location
where a variety of group activities, events, classes, social support services,
and other public informational services can be found.
      GROSS PROJECT SIZE. The total acreage of the property under consideration
for development, inclusive of all open space, parking areas, and rights-of-way
(public and private).
      LIBRARY. A room, group of rooms, or a building containing collections of
books, periodicals, films and other media for the public to read, borrow, or
refer to.
      NET PROJECT SIZE. The acreage of the property under consideration for
development, excluding all area that will be used for open space, parking, and
rights-of-way (public and private).
      PARK. Large areas of land that feature grass, trees, and other landscape
elements, arranged for both passive and active recreation purposes.
      PLAZA. A paved public space for citizens to gather for civic, commercial,
or other reasons.
      TRAIL. An unpaved lane or small paved road (less than 16' wide) not
intended for usage by motorized vehicles and which usually passes through a
natural area or which surrounds publicly accessible parks and other open space.
   (C)   Developers shall choose from the following elements in order to
qualify for the above-listed elements. At least one of the options listed for
each element is required:
      (1)   Commercial.
         (a)   Areas of required commercial overlay, or developers who may
choose to develop a portion of their project as commercial, shall follow the
requirements contained in § 157.315 of this subchapter.
      (2)   Cultural/institutional.
         (a)   Community center (must be a minimum of 1,600 square feet).
         (b)   Library (must be a minimum of 1,600 square feet).
         (c)   Other publicly accessible cultural/institutional amenity,
subject to review and approval of the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Open space.
         (a)   Land set-aside from development for the conservation of natural
resources shall exclude the presence of weeds and be well-maintained.
         (b)   The open space area shall only serve passive recreational
purposes such as walking and jogging and must be open to the general public.
Open space may include the following:
            1.   Trail.
            2.   Park.
            3.   Plaza.
         (c)   Common area maintained by an HOA or any retention pond area
shall not fulfill the open space requirement, unless such retention pond serves
at least one additional public purpose such as a recreation field or a park.
         (d)   If the city's park department accepts the open space area for
the development of a park, a minimum size will be set by said department.
         (e)   Regardless of the manner in which the open space is developed, a
minimum of 20% of the gross project size shall be dedicated to open space if
this option is selected.
      (4)   Recreational.
         (a)   Publicly accessible recreational amenities, such as:
            1.   Multi-use sports fields.
            2.   Pickleball courts.
            3.   Tennis courts.
            4.   Playgrounds.
            5.   Non-motorized trails (not including sidewalks).
      (5)   Residential.
         (a)   A mix of at least two different housing types: single-family
detached, single-family attached (townhomes, twin homes), multi-family
(apartments);
         (b)   Residential uses where there is a combination of commercial and
residential uses, sometimes called "live-work units";
         (c)   Clustering of residential units;
         (d)   Where multiple housing types are developed, no housing type
shall exceed more than 80% of the total number of units;
         (e)   Multi-family developments may include single room occupancy
(SRO) units with one of the following options:
            1.   Excluding the closet, storage space and bathroom space, a
living unit must be at least 100 square feet. A laundry room must be available
on each floor. There shall be a minimum of 500 square feet of interior common
area which includes a living room and a kitchen area.
            2.   Studio apartments with a bedroom of at least 100 square feet,
a living area of at least 100 square feet and a total floor area of at least
300 square feet. There shall be a kitchen area and either laundry hookups
within the unit or an on-site common laundry facility.
   (D)   In order to ensure the maximum benefit to the general public, all
publicly accessible amenities shall:
      (1)   Be placed on the exterior of the project to ensure greatest
visibility;
      (2)   Be provided with signage indicating the amenities are open to the
use of the general public; and
      (3)   Be provided with parking which complies with the West Haven city
parking standards.
(Prior Code, §§ 23.02, 23.04)
(Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2019, passed 1-16-2019; Ord. 13-2023,
passed 7-5-2023; Ord. 16-2024, passed 5-15-2024; Ord. 42-2024, passed 12-18-
2024)
§ 157.311 DENSITY; DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The boundaries and densities of mixed-use districts shall be found on
the official maps of the city. Mixed-Use Districts shall have varying
densities, based on locations, which densities, together with the boundaries of
each district, are defined and outlined as follows:
      (1)   Low Density is zero to 4.9 dwelling units per acre of net project
size:
         (a)   Not permitted as a mixed-use project.
      (2)   Medium-Low Density is five to 8.9 dwelling units per acre of net
project size;
         (a)   All mixed-use projects in West Haven City not otherwise
classified herein.
      (3)   Medium-High Density is nine to 14.9 dwelling units per acre of net
project size; and
         (a)   Those areas south of the centerline of 2100 South and east of
Interstate 15, to the West Haven City boundary.
         (b)   Those areas both north and south of the centerline of 2100 South
and west of Interstate 15 and east of 1900 West, to the West Haven City
boundaries.
      (4)   High Density is 15 to 30 dwelling units per acre of net project
size.
         (a)   Those areas north of the centerline of 2100 South and east of
Interstate 15, to the West Haven City boundary.
      (5)   Mixed use projects shall not be permitted west of 1900 West. Any
property that is already zoned as mixed use may still develop as such.
(Prior Code, § 23.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2019, passed 1-16-
2019; Ord. 13-2023, passed 7-5-2023; Ord. 16-2024, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 157.312 MIXED-USE REZONE.
   (A)   A concept plan shall be attached to any application for Mixed-Use
Zoning in accordance with this chapter and the requirements of §§
157.705 through
157.715 and
157.730 through
157.737.
   (B)   All applications for rezoning to Mixed-Use shall be processed in
accordance with §§
157.706 through
157.715.
   (C)   Once a rezoning application to the Mixed-Use Zone development has been
granted, improvements to the real property must begin within 365 days or the
property may revert to its original zoning at the option of the city with 60
days' notice.
      (1)   Two 90-day extensions may be granted by the Planning Commission at
the request of the developer.
(Prior Code, § 23.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2019, passed 1-16-
2019; Ord. 13-2023, passed 7-5-2023)
§ 157.313 MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   West Haven code §§
157.730 through
157.737 outlines design criteria for multi-family and commercial projects.
Mixed-Use projects involving multi-family dwellings and/or commercial shall be
subject to the provisions of those sections.
   (B)   Specific setbacks and other zoning or design criteria, landscaping,
vehicular and pedestrian circulation patterns, building aesthetics and payback
agreements (as applicable) not otherwise regulated in the above-referenced code
section(s) shall be established in a development agreement, the approval of
which shall be determined by the City Council upon recommendation of the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 13-2023, passed 7-5-2023)
§ 157.314 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residential single-family homes and townhomes within 300 feet of
Commercial, Manufacturing, or Industrial Zones shall submit a study prepared by
a licensed sound engineer which determines the impact of those existing uses on
the proposed housing and what mitigation measures are necessary to ensure
future homeowners from such impacts.
   (B)   Mixed-Use developments in which single-family detached lots are
adjacent to the A-1, R- 1, and R-2 Zones shall be required to provide
buffering, as outlined below.
      (1)   Lots adjacent to existing A-1 and R-1 zones shall be 16,000 square
feet or larger; and
      (2)   Lots adjacent to existing R-2 zones shall be 8,000 square feet or
larger.
   (C)   Regardless of any agreements outlined in the development agreement,
all single-family homes, townhomes, or anything that has a driveway to a garage
shall have a minimum setback of 25 feet from the property line, sidewalk or
common space to the door of the garage.
   (D)   Where applicable, developments which contain a variety of housing
types shall place the most dense portion of the project adjacent to Commercial,
Industrial, or Manufacturing Zones, or major roadways (1-15, 2100 South, Wilson
Ln, 1900 West).
   (E)   Lot size buffering shall not be required if open space is placed
between the existing home lots and the new Mixed-Use Zone lots, and the size of
the open space is greater than, or equal to, twice the minimum lot sizes listed
above.
   (F)   If a natural buffer exists which separates the existing home lots from
the new lots in the proposed Mixed-Use Zone development, the area of this
buffer shall be included in the calculation of the minimum lot sizes listed
above. Natural buffers include: canals, public trails or walkways, government-
owned land, utility-owned land, and the like.
(Ord. 13-2023, passed 7-5-2023)
§ 157.315 COMMERCIAL OVERLAY AND COMMERCIAL USES IN MIXED USE.
   (A)   Mixed Use Commercial Overlay areas are designed to encourage the
establishment and retention of a variety of retail, entertainment, and personal
service establishments to meet the needs of the community’s residents, workers,
and visitors. The following regulations are applicable only to Mixed-Use
projects and not to projects in other zones which may fall within the
boundaries outlined.
   (B)   The following areas are designated as Commercial Overlay areas and are
subject to the provisions of this section:
      (1)   East of Interstate 15:
         (a)   North of 2100 South:
            1.   300 feet north from the edge of the right-of-way of 2100
South.
            2.   300 feet east or west from the edge of the right-of-way of
1100 West.
         (b)   South of 2100 South:
            1.   The entirety of the area south of 2100 South, to the West
Haven City municipal borders.
      (2)   The edge of the right-of-way is defined as that portion of the
right-of-way closest to the property under consideration for development.
      (3)   Should the boundaries of the Commercial Overlay cover only a
portion of any given parcel, that parcel shall still provide the required
commercial, but it may be located on any portion of the parcel.
   (C)   A minimum of 20% of the gross project size for developments subject to
the commercial overlay shall be dedicated to commercial development.
   (D)   All businesses permitted or conditional businesses in C-1 and C-
2 zones may be included in Mixed-Use Zones with similar use designations
(conditional or permitted), subject to the following stipulations:
      (1)   At least 50% of the required commercial space shall be dedicated to
commercial uses which generate sales tax revenue.
   (E)   All uses within a commercial overlay area are subject to the
architectural, landscaping and other standards outlined in West Haven code §§
157.730 through
157.737, “Design Review.”
   (F)   Any parcel that currently has only an existing commercial building in
a Mixed-Use Zone is not required to have two or more of the listed elements,
even if the commercial use changes to a different compliant commercial use.
However, if the commercial use changes, it has to be a permitted or conditional
use as listed in C-1 and C-2 zones and is subject to the architectural,
landscaping and other standards outlined in West Haven code §§
157.730 through
157.737, “Design Review.”
   (G)   Any parcel within 200 feet of I-15 and in the Mixed-Use Zone may
choose to have 100% of the parcel as commercial use and will not be required to
have two elements under this subchapter. However, the commercial use has to be
a permitted or conditional use as listed in the C-1, C-2, and C-3 zones and is
subject to the architectural, landscaping and other standards outlined in West
Haven code §§
157.730 through
157.737, “Design Review.”
(Prior Code, § 23.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 02-2019, passed 1-16-
2019; Ord. 13-2023, passed 7-5-2023; Ord. 42-2024, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 157.316 REGULATIONS FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS, CONTAINERS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures will not be allowed
in this Zone except for temporary new construction sites with a valid current
building permit issued by the city. Temporary storage units, containers, or
structures must be removed within 30 days of completion or abandonment of
construction or permit expiration, whichever comes first.
   (B)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
moving and are allowed on a hard surface in a Residential Zone for up to 14
days for the outgoing resident and an additional 14 days for the incoming
resident.
   (C)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
remodeling projects in established neighborhoods for a period of up to 120 days
if placed in the driveway of a residence and up to six months if placed behind
a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to obscure the view
of the unit, container, or structure from the road. A valid current building
permit is required.
Permanent use of these temporary storage units, containers, or structures shall
not be allowed in any Residential Zone on lots of less than one acre. One
storage unit is allowed per acre but the maximum number is one unit per two
acres, then one per additional acre with a conditional use permit. The storage
container must be placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other
obstruction as to obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure from
the road.
   (D)   The city has no obligation or responsibility to research and enforce
an applicant’s property’s existing private covenants, conditions, or
restrictions prohibiting the use of temporary, or permanent, use of storage
units, containers, or structures. It is the exclusive responsibility of a
property owner to research and have full knowledge and understanding of those
private covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with, and are attached
to, his or her property. By submitting an application to the city for a
permanent or temporary storage unit, container, or structure, the applicant is
certifying that he or she has full knowledge and understanding of those private
covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with his or her property and
have a full understanding of whether those items prohibit the use of temporary
or permanent storage units, containers, or structures.
   (E)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures are allowed in
these Zones for the loading and off-loading of supplies or inventory. They may
be stored on-site for up to 30 days; provided, they are not able to be seen
from any major corridor in the city, do not take up required customer parking,
are not on landscaping, and are placed behind buildings or fences that are not
see through. Any exception to this shall require a conditional use permit from
the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Permanent use of temporary storage units, containers, or structures
may be allowed with a conditional use permit, which shall include a site plan.
A temporary storage unit, container, or structure must be placed on a permanent
foundation, and made to look like the main structure on the property, including
the use of similar building materials and colors. A building permit and a site
plan is required for the location of the unit, container, or structure, to be
filed in conjunction with the requested conditional use permit. Any exceptions,
as well as the number of units, containers, or structures, and the location
shall be subject to approval from the Planning Commission.
   (G)   All tractor trailers on an agricultural, residential, or commercial
parcel shall be licensed and registered with the state and must be actively
used. Trailers not involved in a construction project that remain in a fixed
location over 30 days shall be subject to fines, impoundment, and removal by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 23.12) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 13-2023, passed 7-
5-2023)
§ 157.317 ENFORCEMENT AND FINES.
   Upon a determination that a violation exists, the Code Enforcement Officer,
or his or her designee, may declare such violation a nuisance and follow
remediation procedure as outlined in §§
90.01 through
90.05. He or she will contact the owner and shall require such owner to halt,
eradicate, destroy, remove, or otherwise cure the violation within 48 hours, or
such later time the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, may
determine.
(Prior Code, § 23.12.010) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 13-2023, passed
7-5-2023)
M-1 ZONE (MANUFACTURING)
§ 157.330 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of the Light Manufacturing Zone is to provide suitable areas
that will accommodate the need for light intensity-type manufacturing and its
associated accessory uses, some of which may have an environmental impact
requiring public review and regulation.
(Prior Code, § 24.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 08-2016, passed 5-4-
2016)
§ 157.331 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a permitted
use;
   (B)   Any permitted use in a C-3 Zone except dwelling units;
   (C)   Agriculture;
   (D)   Animal hospitals;
   (E)   Animals and fowl for family food production;
   (F)   Boat building;
   (G)   Bookbinding;
   (H)   Body and fender work, if conducted within an enclosed building;
   (I)   Bottling works, soft drinks;
   (J)   Carpenter shops, cabinet shop;
   (K)   Carpet and rug cleaning and dyeing;
   (L)   Coal, fuel, and wood yards, enclosed within a building or by a solid
fence of not less than six feet in height;
   (M)   Construction of buildings to be sold and moved off the premises;
   (N)   Dairy;
   (O)   Dry cleaning plants;
   (P)   Dwelling units for night watch person or guard and family;
   (Q)   Egg handling, processing, and sales;
   (R)   Electric appliances and/or electronic instruments assembling;
   (S)   Express offices;
   (T)   Garages, public;
   (U)   Honey extraction;
   (V)   Ice manufacturing and storage;
   (W)   Kennels;
   (X)   Knitting mill;
   (Y)   Laboratories;
   (Z)   Laundries;
   (AA)   Lithographing, including engraving and photo engraving;
   (BB)   Machine shop;
   (CC)   Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packing, and treatment of the
following products:
      (1)   Bakery goods;
      (2)   Candy;
      (3)   Dairy products; and
      (4)   Pharmaceuticals.
   (DD)   Manufacturing, compounding, assembling, and treatment of articles of
merchandise from the following previously-prepared materials:
      (1)   Cellophane;
      (2)   Canvas;
      (3)   Cloth;
      (4)   Cork;
      (5)   Felt;
      (6)   Shell;
      (7)   Straw;
      (8)   Textile;
      (9)   Wood; and
      (10)   Yarn.
   (EE)   Manufacturing and maintenance of the following:
      (1)   Business machines;
      (2)   Cameras and photographic equipment;
      (3)   Electric and neon signs, billboards, and/or commercial advertising
structures;
      (4)   Light sheet metal products, including heating and ventilating ducts
and equipment;
      (5)   Musical instruments;
      (6)   Novelties;
      (7)   Rubber and metal stamps; and
      (8)   Toys.
   (FF)   Monument works;
   (GG)   Motion picture studios;
   (HH)   Motor vehicles, trailers, bicycles and machinery repairing, rentals,
sales, and reconditioning;
   (II)   Parking lots;
   (JJ)   Planning mill;
   (KK)   Printing, including engraving and photo engraving, blueprinting,
photo stating, and duplication;
   (LL)   Public transit yards;
   (MM)   Public and quasi-public uses;
   (NN)   Radio and television transmitting towers;
   (OO)   Retail sales of products produced by, or developed in conjunction
with, or normally required and used in the performance of, a commercial or
manufacturing operation permitted in this Zone; and provided the retail sale is
clearly an accessory use to the main permitted use and is conducted within the
same building, or if the main use is not a building, then on the same property;
provided, however, no retail sales of products may be made in conjunction with
a warehousing or wholesale business;
   (PP)   Rubber welding;
   (QQ)   Sign painting shop;
   (RR)   Service station;
   (SS)   Single-family dwelling;
   (TT)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work,
including living quarters for a guard or night watch person, which buildings
must be removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction work;
   (UU)   Tire retreading and/or vulcanizing;
   (VV)   Transfer companies;
   (WW)   Truck service stations;
   (XX)   Trucking terminals;
   (YY)   Upholstering, including mattress manufacturing, rebuilding, and
renovating;
   (ZZ)   Used car lots;
   (AAA)   Veterinaries, and hotel and beauty parlors for cats and dogs;
   (BBB)   Warehouses;
   (CCC)   Weaving;
   (DDD)   Welding shops; and
   (EEE)   Wholesale businesses.
(Prior Code, § 24.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 08-2016, passed 5-4-
2016)
§ 157.332 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted only when authorized by a conditional
use permit as provided in §§
157.515 through
157.529:
   (A)   Airports;
   (B)   Any conditional use allowed in a C-3 Zone, except dwelling units;
   (C)   Battery manufactures;
   (D)   Blacksmith shops;
   (E)   Building materials sale yard, including the sale of rock, sand,
gravel, and the like, as an incidental part of the main business, but excluding
concrete mixing, except as such concrete mixing is necessary in the preparation
and manufacture of any of the products specified in this section.
   (F)   Carnivals or other amusement enterprises, transient in nature;
   (G)   Concrete mini-mix plants with a one-yard capacity;
   (H)   Contractor’s equipment storage yards or rental of equipment used by
contractors;
   (I)   Draying, freighting, or trucking yards or terminals;
   (J)   Fertilizer and soil conditioner manufacture, processing, and/or sales;
provided only non-animal products and by-products are used;
   (K)   Foundries, casting light-weight, non-ferrous metal without causing
noxious odors or fumes;
   (L)   Glass manufacturing;
   (M)   Manufacture of brick and all clay, ceramic, cinder, concrete,
synthetic, cast stone, plastic, and pumice stone products, including the
manufacture of fabrication of building blocks, tile, or pipe from raw material
for use in building construction or for sewer or drainage purposes, and
including rock or gravel crushings, or raw materials, which are incidental to
the manufacture or fabrication of the above-described products; and provided
that such crushing facilities shall be located not closer than 200 feet to any
property line;
   (N)   Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packing, and treatment of the
products:
      (1)   Cosmetics;
      (2)   Food products, excluding the following: fish, sauerkraut, pickles,
vinegar yeast, and the rendering for fat; and
      (3)   Toiletries.
   (O)   Manufacturing, compounding, and treatment of articles or merchandise
from the following previously-prepared material:
      (1)   Bone;
      (2)   Feathers;
      (3)   Fiber;
      (4)   Fish;
      (5)   Glass;
      (6)   Hair;
      (7)   Horn;
      (8)   Leather;
      (9)   Paint;
      (10)   Paper;
      (11)   Plastic;
      (12)   Rubber; and
      (13)   Tobacco.
   (P)   The manufacturing, fabrication, assembly, compounding, processing,
treatment, and storage of products made from the family of metals and carbons
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Brass;
      (2)   Iron;
      (3)   Copper;
      (4)   Steel; and
      (5)   Graphite and their substitutes.
   (Q)   Meat products smoking, curing, and packing; provided that no
objectionable fumes are emitted.
The raising and grazing of horses, cattle, sheep, or goats as part of a farming
operation, including the supplementary or full feeding of such animals;
   (R)   Manufactured housing to serve as quarters for a guard or night watch
person and family, so long as it is permanently affixed on approved concrete or
concrete block foundation;
   (S)   Motorcycle and off-road vehicle trails and tracks, including accessory
concession stands, picnic, park, and playground facilities; and
   (T)   Sand blasting; provided all work is done in a completely closed
building.
(Prior Code, § 24.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 08-2016, passed 5-4-
2016)
§ 157.333 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
Site Development Requirements
Site Development      Requirements
Building height
Maximum               None
Minimum               1 story
Lot coverage          Not over 80% of lot area by buildings
Minimum lot area      20,000 sq. ft. for single-family dwellings which require
                      5 acres
Minimum lot width     100 ft.
Minimum yard setbacks
Front                 30 ft. on streets of less than 80 ft. in width; 50 ft. on
                      streets and highways of 80 ft. or more in width
Rear                  None, except 20 ft. where building rears on a Residential
                      Zone and 30 ft. for single-family dwellings
                      None, except 20 ft. where adjacent to a Residential Zone
Side                  boundary and a side yard facing a street on a corner lot
                      and for single-family dwellings
 
(Prior Code, § 24.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 08-2016, passed 5-4-
2016)
§ 157.334 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The height, size, and location of the following permitted signs shall be in
accordance with §§
157.590 through
157.618 as follows (see §§
157.755 through
157.761 for possible changes in the list below):
   (A)   Advertising signs and billboards; provided the following conditions
are met:
      (1)   Size. The maximum size of a billboard at any one location shall not
be larger than 1,000 square feet;
      (2)   Spacing. The minimum distance between any two billboards adjacent
to, and facing, a freeway or highway shall be 500 feet; and
      (3)   Freeway access. The minimum distance between any advertising sign
or billboard and the beginning of the pavement widening for an entrance or exit
ramp on a freeway shall be not less than 500 feet; in addition, billboards
adjacent to freeways shall comply with the state outdoor advertising
regulations.
   (B)   Animated signs;
   (C)   Business signs not exceeding in area five square feet for each foot of
street frontage with a maximum of 650 square feet for each sign; provided that
business signs adjacent to, and within, 660 feet of an interstate freeway or a
federal aid primary highway may have a maximum size of 1,000 square feet for
each sign;
   (D)   Flat signs;
   (E)   Ground signs;
   (F)   Identification signs; illuminated signs;
   (G)   Name plates;
   (H)   Property signs, projecting signs; public necessity signs;
   (I)   Roof signs;
   (J)   Service signs; and
   (K)   Temporary signs.
(Prior Code, § 24.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 08-2016, passed 5-4-
2016)
§ 157.335 STORAGE UNIT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No units south of 4000 S.
   (B)   Storage units are allowed on the following corridors; provided they
are set back not less than 800 feet from the centerline of the street (as
measured from all four sides of the storage units):
      (1)   1900 W;
      (2)   2550 S;
      (3)   4000 S (north);
      (4)   Midland Dr.; and
      (5)   2100 S.
   (C)   Storage units shall be located only in an M-1, M-2, or MU Zone.
   (D)   (1)   All visible walls on an outside perimeter will be required to
have decorative brick or split-face block, with a decorative vertical column
every 50 feet if length is over 100 feet.
      (2)   Elevations and color scheme are required a final approval.
      (3)   No business may operate from within an individual storage unit.
      (4)   Open storage uses, and material deviations from the above
requirements, shall require a conditional use permit as provided in §§
157.515 through
157.529.
(Prior Code, § 24.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 04-2006, passed 2-15-
2006; Ord. 06-2014, passed 2-19-2014; Ord. 08-2016, passed 5-4-2016)
§ 157.336 REGULATIONS FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS, CONTAINERS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures are allowed in
these Zones for the loading and off-loading of supplies or inventory. They may
be stored on-site for up to 30 days; provided, they are not able to be seen
from any major corridor in the city, do not take up required customer parking,
are not on landscaping, and are placed behind buildings or fences that are not
see through. Any exception to this shall require a conditional use permit from
the Planning Commission.
   (B)   (1)   Permanent use of temporary storage units, containers, or
structures may be allowed with a conditional use permit, which shall include a
site plan and any required building permits. (Note: they shall not be allowed
in any Commercial or Manufacturing Zone(s) on lots of less than one acre.)
      (2)   A temporary storage unit, container, or structure must be placed on
a hard surface such as gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt, and made to
look like the main structure on the property, including the use of similar
building materials and colors.
      (3)   Any exceptions, as well as the number of units, containers, or
structures, and the location shall be subject to approval from the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 24.14) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021, passed 7-
21-2021)
M-2 ZONE (MANUFACTURING)
§ 157.350 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of the Heavy Manufacturing Zone is to provide suitable areas
that will accommodate the need for heavy-intensity manufacturing, extracting,
and associated uses where the environmental impact upon the community may be
substantial, and where public regulation may be necessary to preserve the
general welfare of the community.
(Prior Code, § 26.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.351 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Any permitted uses in an M-1 Zone;
   (B)   Building material sale yards, and blacksmith shop;
   (C)   Contractor’s equipment storage yards;
   (D)   Feed, cereal, or flour mills;
   (E)   Freighting or trucking yard, or terminals;
   (F)   Manufacturing, processing, compounding, packing treatment, and/or
storage of acetylene gas;
   (G)   Manufacturing, fabrication, assembly, canning, compounding, packaging
process, treatment, storage, and/or maintenance of the following:
      (1)   Airplanes and parts; automobile and parts;
      (2)   Cans;
      (3)   Emery cloth excelsior;
      (4)   Hardware;
      (5)   Machinery and matches;
      (6)   Oxygen; and
      (7)   Salt.
(Prior Code, § 26.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.352 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted only when authorized by a conditional
use permit as provided in §§
157.515 through
157.529:
   (A)   Any conditional uses allowed in an M-1 Zone;
   (B)   Automobile recycling (parts dismantling) when conducted within a
completely-enclosed building. The recycling facility shall have no more than 40
automobiles at the site at any one time. Any automobile recycling vehicle
storage area must be enclosed by a solid wall or fence of not less than seven
feet in height;
   (C)   Go-cart racing or drag strip racing;
   (D)   Incinerators, non-accessory; provided, that no objectionable fumes and
odors are emitted;
   (E)   Manufacturing, fabrication, assembly, canning, compounding, packaging
process treatment, storage, and/or maintenance of the following:
      (1)   Alcohol;
      (2)   Brass, bricks;
      (3)   Candles, cast stone products, cement and cinder products, copper,
ceramic products, and clay products;
      (4)   Dyestuffs;
      (5)   Feathers, fiber, and fish food products;
      (6)   Glass, glucose, and gypsum;
      (7)   Hair;
      (8)   Ink and iron;
      (9)   Lampblack, linoleum, and lime;
      (10)   Malts, meats;
      (11)   Oilcloth, oiled rubber goods;
      (12)   Paper, paint, pulp, pickles, plaster, plaster of paris, and
plastic;
      (13)   Sauerkraut, sheet metal, shellac, shoddy, shoe polish, soap and
detergent, starch, and steel;
      (14)   Terra cotta, tile, and turpentine;
      (15)   Varnish, vinegar; and
      (16)   Yeast.
   (F)   Metals, and metal products treatment and processing;
   (G)   Oil or lubricating grease compounding;
   (H)   Petroleum refining and storage;
   (I)   Railroad yards, shops, and/or roundhouses;
   (J)   Rock crushers;
   (K)   Sewage disposal or treatment plants;
   (L)   Wrecked car sales;
   (M)   The uses which follow, provided they are located at least 600 feet
from any Zone boundary:
      (1)   Animal by-product plants, garbage, offal, or dead animal reduction
or dumping, and automobile wrecking yards; provided, the use is enclosed with a
seven-foot high solid fence or wall;
      (2)   Blast furnaces;
      (3)   Cement, mortar, plaster or paving materials, and central mixing
plants;
      (4)   Fat rendering;
      (5)   Gravel pits, and quarries;
      (6)   Junk or salvage yards; provided, the use is enclosed with a seven-
foot high solid fence or wall;
      (7)   Manufacturing, processing, refining, treatment, distillation,
storage, or compounding of the following:
         (a)   Acid;
         (b)   Ammonia;
         (c)   Asphalt;
         (d)   Bleaching powder and chlorine;
         (e)   Bone;
         (f)   Chemicals of an objectionable or dangerous nature;
         (g)   Coal or wood;
         (h)   Creosote;
         (i)   Disinfectants or insecticides;
         (j)   Fat;
         (k)   Fireworks or explosives;
         (l)   Fur;
         (m)   Gas;
         (n)   Gelatin or size;
         (o)   Glue;
         (p)   Hide;
         (q)   Ore;
         (r)   Plastic;
         (s)   Potash;
         (t)   Pyroxylin;
         (u)   Roofing or waterproofing materials;
         (v)   Rubber or guttapercha;
         (w)   Tallow grease or lard;
         (x)   Tar; and
         (y)   Wood.
      (8)   Metal crushing for salvage;
      (9)   Ore bonification;
      (10)   Smelting or refining of materials;
      (11)   Steel or iron mill mines; and
      (12)   Stockyards and slaughter houses.
   (N)   Manufactured housing to serve as quarters for a guard or night watch
person and family, so long as it is permanently affixed on approved concrete or
concrete block foundation.
(Prior Code, § 26.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.353 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
Site Development Requirements
Site Development      Requirements
Building height
Maximum               None
Minimum               1 story
Lot coverage          Not over 80% of lot area by buildings
Minimum lot area      No minimum lot area is required except for single-family
                      dwellings, which require 5 acres
Minimum lot width     100 ft.
Minimum yard setbacks
Front                 30 ft. on streets of less than 80 ft. in width; 50 ft. on
                      streets and highways of 80 ft. or more in width
Rear                  None, except 20 ft. where building rears on a Residential
                      Zone and 30 ft. for single-family dwellings
                      None, except 20 ft. where adjacent to a Residential Zone
Side                  boundary and a side yard facing a street on a corner lot
                      and for single-family dwellings
 
(Prior Code, § 26.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.354 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The height, size, and location of the following permitted signs shall be in
accordance with the regulations set forth in §§
157.755 through
157.761:
   (A)   Advertising signs and billboard; provided the following conditions are
met.
      (1)   Size. The maximum size of a billboard at any one location shall not
be larger than 1,000 square feet.
      (2)   Spacing. The minimum distance between any two billboards adjacent
to, and facing, a freeway or highway shall be 500 feet.
      (3)   Freeway access. The minimum distance between any advertising sign
or billboard and the beginning of the pavement widening for an entrance or exit
ramp on a freeway shall be not less than 500 feet. In addition, billboards
adjacent to freeways shall comply with the state outdoor advertising
regulations.
   (B)   Animated signs;
   (C)   Business signs not exceeding in area five square feet for each foot of
street frontage, with a maximum of 650 square feet for each sign; provided that
business signs adjacent to, and within, 660 feet of an interstate freeway or
federal aid primary highway may have a maximum size of 1,000 square feet for
each sign;
   (D)   Flat signs;
   (E)   Ground signs;
   (F)   Identification sign, illuminated signs;
   (G)   Name plates;
   (H)   Property signs, projecting signs; public necessity signs;
   (I)   Roof signs;
   (J)   Service signs; and
   (K)   Temporary signs.
(Prior Code, § 26.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.355 STORAGE UNIT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No units south of 4000 S.
   (B)   Storage units are allowed on the following corridors, provided they
are set back not less than 800 feet from the centerline of the street (as
measured from all four sides of the storage units):
      (1)   1900 W;
      (2)   2550 S;
      (3)   4000 S (north);
      (4)   Midland Dr.; and
      (5)   2100 S.
   (C)   Storage units shall be located only in an M-1, M-2, or MU Zone.
   (D)   (1)   All visible walls on the outside perimeter will be required to
have decorative brick or split-face block, with a decorative vertical column
every 50 feet if the length is over 100 feet.
      (2)   Elevations and color schemes are required at final approval.
      (3)   No business may operate from within an individual storage unit.
      (4)   Open storage uses, and material deviations from the above
requirements, shall require a conditional use permit as provided in §§
157.515 through
157.529.
(Prior Code, § 26.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 04-2006, passed 2-15-
2006; Ord. 06-2014, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 157.356 REGULATIONS FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS, CONTAINERS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures are allowed in
these Zones for the loading and off-loading of supplies or inventory. They may
be stored on-site for up to 30 days; provided they are not able to be seen from
any major corridor in the city, do not take up required customer parking, are
not on landscaping, and are placed behind buildings or fences that are not see
through. Any exception to this shall require a conditional use permit from the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   Permanent use of temporary storage units, containers, or structures
may be allowed with a conditional use permit, which shall include a site plan
and any required building permits. (Note: they shall not be allowed in any
Commercial or Manufacturing Zone(s) on lots of less than one acre.) A temporary
storage unit, container, or structure must be placed on a hard surface such as
gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt, and made to look like the main
structure on the property, including the use of similar building materials and
colors. Any exceptions, as well as the number of units, containers, or
structures, and the location shall be subject to approval from the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 26.14) (Ord. 23-2020, passed 6-17-2020; Ord. 29-2021, passed 7-
21-2021)
O-1 ZONE (OPEN SPACE)
§ 157.370 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The Open Space Zone is specifically intended to encourage the preservation
of:
   (A)   A natural environment in an otherwise urban setting;
   (B)   To hold for future generations open space in which plants and animals
can be protected and studied;
   (C)   To inhibit erection of unnecessary buildings on a floodplain, on areas
of severe slope, areas of fault line, and rock slides;
   (D)   To provide suitable areas for recreation and relaxation; and
   (E)   To alleviate stream pollution.
(Prior Code, § 28.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.371 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agriculture;
   (B)   Botanical or zoological garden;
   (C)   Cemeteries;
   (D)   Conservation areas; botanical or zoological;
   (E)   Fishing ponds; private or public;
   (F)   Golf courses, except miniature golf courses;
   (G)   Horse raising; provided it is conducted in a pasture of at least five
acres in size and with a maximum density of two horses per acre;
   (H)   Private parks, playgrounds, or recreation areas;
   (I)   Public parks, public recreation grounds, and associate buildings, but
not including privately-owned commercial amusement businesses;
   (J)   Public service buildings; and
   (K)   Wildlife sanctuaries.
(Prior Code, § 28.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.372 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted only when authorized by a conditional
use permit as provided in §§
157.515 through
157.529:
   (A)   Golf driving ranges in conjunction with a golf course; and
   (B)   Main and accessory buildings, and uses customarily incidental to any
permitted use.
(Prior Code, § 28.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.373 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
Site Development Requirements
Site Development                     Requirements
Building height
Maximum                              2 1/2 stories or 35 ft.
Minimum                              1 story
Minimum lot area                     5 acres
Minimum lot width                    300 ft.
Minimum yard setbacks for structures
Front                                30 ft.
Rear                                 30 ft.
Side                                 20 ft. each side
 
(Prior Code, § 28.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.374 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The height, size, and location of the following permitted signs shall be in
accordance with the regulations set forth in §§
157.755 through
157.761:
   (A)   Development signs;
   (B)   Directional signs;
   (C)   Flat signs;
   (D)   Freestanding signs;
   (E)   Identification and information signs;
   (F)   Temporary signs; and
   (G)   Wall signs.
(Prior Code, § 28.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.375 REGULATIONS FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS, CONTAINERS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures will not be allowed
in this Zone except for temporary new construction sites with a valid current
building permit issued by the city. Temporary storage units, containers, or
structures must be removed within 30 days of completion or abandonment of
construction or permit expiration, whichever comes first.
   (B)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
moving and are allowed on a hard surface in a Residential Zone for up to 14
days for the outgoing resident and an additional 14 days for the incoming
resident.
   (C)   Temporary storage units, containers, or structures may be used for
remodeling projects in established neighborhoods for a period of up to 120 days
if placed in the driveway of a residence and up to six months if placed behind
a home, solid fence, outbuildings, or other obstruction as to obscure the view
of the unit, container, or structure from the road. A valid current building
permit is required.
   (D)   Permanent use of these temporary storage units, containers, or
structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or Agricultural Zone on lots
of less than one acre. One storage unit may be allowed per acre with a land use
permit, which shall include a site plan and any required building permits. A
temporary storage unit, container, or structure shall be placed on a hard
surface such as gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt. Note, the maximum
number of temporary storage units, containers, or structures is one unit per
two acres, then one per additional acre with a conditional use permit. The
storage container must be placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or
other obstruction as to obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure
from the road.
   (E)   The city has no obligation or responsibility to research and enforce
an applicant’s property’s existing private covenants, conditions, or
restrictions prohibiting the use of temporary or permanent use of storage
units, containers, or structures. It is the exclusive responsibility of a
property owner to research and have full knowledge and understanding of those
private covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with, and are attached
to, his or her property. By submitting an application to the city for a
permanent or temporary storage unit, container, or structure, the applicant is
certifying that he or she has full knowledge and understanding of those private
covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with his or her property and
have a full understanding of whether those items prohibit the use of temporary
or permanent storage units, containers, or structures.
   (F)   All tractor trailers on an agricultural, residential, or commercial
parcel shall be licensed and registered with the state and must be actively
used. Trailers not involved in a construction project that remain in a fixed
location over 30 days shall be subject to fines, impoundment, and removal by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 28.12) (Ord. 29-2021, passed 7-21-2021)
§ 157.376 ENFORCEMENT AND FINES.
   (A)   Enforcement and fines. Upon a determination that a violation exists,
the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, will contact the owner
and shall require such owner to halt, eradicate, destroy, remove, or otherwise
cure the violation within 48 hours, or such later time the Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee, may determine.
   (B)   Pre-existing conditions. In the instance of an existing storage unit,
container, or structure that has been established for a permanent use, the
owner shall have a pre-existing right, shall be a legally nonconforming use,
and shall not be required to come into compliance with the new requirements
adopted July 21, 2021. The following conditions do, however, apply to any such
unit(s) as of the adoption of the original ordinance on April 10, 2020:
      (1)   Residential and Agriculture Zones. Temporary storage units,
containers, or structures shall not be allowed in any Residential or
Agricultural Zone on lots of less than one acre. The storage container must be
placed behind a home, solid fence, outbuilding, or other obstruction as to
obscure the view of the unit, container, or structure from the road; and
      (2)   Commercial and Manufacturing Zones. A temporary storage unit,
container, or structure shall not be allowed in any Commercial or Manufacturing
Zone on lots of less than one acre. It must be placed on a hard surface such as
gravel, road base, concrete, or asphalt, and made to look like the main
structure on the property, including the use of similar building materials and
colors.
   (C)   Temporary storage units. If the temporary storage unit, container, or
structure is moved or otherwise modified, the property owner would have to
comply to all requirements under the current ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 28.12.10) (Ord. 29-2021, passed 7-21-2021)
FP-1 ZONE (FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY)
§ 157.390 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of the FP-1 Zone is to delineate the known floodplains of all
natural waterways in the city as defined by the Army Corps of Engineers, with
specific intent to:
   (A)   Control uses of land in the defined floodplain;
   (B)   Protect human life and health;
   (C)   Minimize public and private property damage;
   (D)   Protect unsuspecting buyers of property within a floodplain;
   (E)   Minimize surface and groundwater pollution;
   (F)   Provide for public awareness of the flooding potential;
   (G)   Maintain a stable tax base; and
   (H)   Help qualify owners of structures in a floodplain for the federally
subsidized flood insurance program.
(Prior Code, § 30.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.391 PERMITTED USES.
   There are no permitted uses within the FP-1 Zone.
(Prior Code, § 30.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.392 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any use allowed as a permitted or conditional use in the respective zone
over which the Floodplain Overlay Zone extends. The allowed uses are confined
to the boundaries of their respective zones within which the Floodplain Overlay
Zone extends and are not allowed in all areas of the Floodplain Overlay Zone
but rather confined to their respective zone boundaries. Conditional uses are
allowed only when authorized by a conditional use permit obtained as provided
in §§
157.515 through
157.529.
(Prior Code, § 30.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.393 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The same as those specified for the particular use in the respective zone
over which the Floodplain Overlay Zone extends. In addition, that section of
the latest adopted edition of the Uniform Building Code (UBC), as amended,
which relates to construction in floodplains shall be made a condition of
approval of every conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, § 30.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.394 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The same as that provided in the specific zone over which the Floodplain
Overlay Zone extends. Specific signs and regulations related thereto are
limited to the boundaries of the particular zone within the Floodplain Overlay
Zone.
(Prior Code, § 30.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.395 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   FLOODPLAIN. The relatively flat area or lowlands adjoining a river, stream,
watercourse, lake, or other body of standing water that has been, or may be,
covered by floodwater.
   FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE. Boundaries of the intermediate regional flood, as
defined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The FLOODPLAIN ZONE is designed to
overlay or be superimposed over existing zoning within the defined floodplain.
Such an overlay zone can be interchangeably referred to as a floating zone
because the existing zone remains effective except for the conditions
superimposed by the FLOODPLAIN ZONE.
   INTERMEDIATE REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood having an average frequency of
occurrence on the order of once in 100 years, although the flood may occur in
any year.
(Prior Code, § 30.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
PH ZONE (RESIDENTIAL PATIO HOME ZONE)
§ 157.410 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Patio Home Zone is to provide an acceptable housing style
for single-family “empty nest” type housing that is a sustainable quality
product within the city. To provide for areas in appropriate locations where
quiet residential neighborhoods may be established and protected.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 38-2020, passed 10-21-2020; Ord. 04-2022, passed 3-
2-2022; Ord. 03-2023, passed 2-1-2023)
§ 157.411 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses and buildings (only behind homes) less than 200 square
feet;
   (B)   Dwellings, single-family detached;
   (C)   Animal keeping (see §§
157.865 through
157.868);
   (D)   Home occupations with no visiting clientele;
   (E)   Pets, the keeping of household pets; and
   (F)   Any use not specifically permitted or conditional is strictly
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 38-2020, passed 10-21-2020; Ord. 04-2022, passed 3-
2-2022; Ord. 03-2023, passed 2-1-2023)
§ 157.412 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Conditions for approval shall be determined as provided in §§
157.515 through
157.529:
   (A)   Church (temporary churches held in open areas, tents, or in temporary
structures excluded); and
   (B)   Home occupations.
(Prior Code, § 31.03) (Ord. 38-2020, passed 10-21-2020; Ord. 04-2022, passed 3-
2-2022; Ord. 03-2023, passed 2-1-2023)
§ 157.413 BUILDING LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Density. There shall be no more than five residential units per acre
contained within the boundaries of each phase of every subdivision or planned
unit development; except when previously completed phases of the same
development have sufficiently low density that the average is still five
residential units per acre or less.
   (B)   Lot area. There shall be a minimum of 6,000 square feet in each lot.
Corner lots shall be a minimum of 6,400 square feet.
   (C)   Lot width. Minimum lot width shall be 50 feet; corner lots are 60
feet.
(Prior Code, § 31.04) (Ord. 38-2020, passed 10-21-2020; Ord. 04-2022, passed 3-
2-2022; Ord. 03-2023, passed 2-1-2023)
§ 157.414 LOCATION OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Dwellings.
      (1)   Front setback. Twenty feet from the property line to garage, 18
feet for the home;
      (2)   Side setback. Five feet minimum on each side, except 15 feet
minimum for side fronting on a street;
      (3)   Rear setback. The rear lot line has to average 18 feet.
   (B)   Detached accessory buildings and garages. Accessory buildings larger
than 200 square feet shall be as follows. The size and location of accessory
buildings shall be evaluated and approved during the approval process and shall
be outlined in the development agreement and CC&R's. Otherwise not allowed over
200 square feet. Accessory dwelling units are not permitted.
   (C)   Detached accessory buildings and garages. Two hundred square feet and
smaller.
      (1)   Front setback. All accessory buildings must be behind the home or
behind the plane of the rear wall of the home.
      (2)   Side setback. Five feet.
      (3)   Rear setback. Five feet.
(Prior Code, § 31.05) (Ord. 38-2020, passed 10-21-2020; Ord. 04-2022, passed 3-
2-2022; Ord. 18-2022, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 03-2023, passed 2-1-2023)
§ 157.415 ZERO LOT LINES.
   (A)   Developers wishing to provide attached single-level single-family
homes (zero lot lines) may request a development agreement with the city which
will outline the provisions under which such homes would be allowed.
   (B)   If a development agreement is approved allowing zero lot line
projects, developer shall be required to maintain the density requirements of
this zone, but shall not be required to maintain a minimum lot size for such
uses.
(Ord. 04-2022, passed 3-2-2022; Ord. 03-2023, passed 2-1-2023)
§ 157.416 MAXIMUM STRUCTURE HEIGHT.
   (A)   Dwelling or other main building shall be 25 feet. Habitable attic
space is permitted over a garage area; and
   (B)   Accessory building. Fifteen feet.
(Prior Code, § 31.06) (Ord. 38-2020, passed 10-21-2020; Ord. 04-2022, passed 3-
2-2022; Ord. 18-2022, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 03-2023, passed 2-1-2023)
§ 157.417 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   (1)   Landscaping and an automatic sprinkler system is to be installed
with construction contract.
      (2)   At least one tree is to be planted per lot (trunk size is to be a
two-inch diameter or larger).
      (3)   Fencing is standardized within development.
   (B)   The developer shall pay a landscape cash bond of $8,500, specifically
for the landscape installation, at the time of issuance of the building permit.
   (C)   (1)   The normal landscape installation will be required within 30
days of the certificate of occupancy issuance.
      (2)   However, when that 30-day period cannot be achieved due to the
short secondary water season, the landscape shall be installed by, or prior to,
the next May 15.
   (D)   The entire landscape cash bond amount shall be held by the city until
final completion of the required landscaping.
(Prior Code, § 31.07) (Ord. 38-2020, passed 10-21-2020; Ord. 04-2022, passed 3-
2-2022; Ord. 03-2023, passed 2-1-2023)
§ 157.418 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   As provided in §§
157.630 through
157.640.
(Prior Code, § 31.08) (Ord. 38-2020, passed 10-21-2020; Ord. 04-2022, passed 3-
2-2022; Ord. 03-2023, passed 2-1-2023)
§ 157.419 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   See §§
157.755 through
157.761.
(Prior Code, § 31.09) (Ord. 38-2020, passed 10-21-2020; Ord. 04-2022, passed 3-
2-2022; Ord. 03-2023, passed 2-1-2023)
PLANNED RESIDENTIAL UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PRUD)
§ 157.430 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. Land area in a planned residential unit development
reserved and set aside for recreation uses, landscaping, open green areas,
parking, and driveway areas for common use and enjoyment of the residents of
the PRUD.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE EASEMENT. A required right-of-use granted to the city by
the owner of a planned residential unit development on and over land in a
planned residential unit development designated as common open space, which
easement guarantees to the city that the designated common open space and
recreation land is permanently reserved for access, parking, and recreation,
and open green space purposes, in accordance with the plans and specifications
approved by the Planning Commission and City Council at the time of approval of
the PRUD, or as such plans are amended from time to time with the approval of
the City Council.
   PLANNED RESIDENTIAL UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PRUD). A development in which the
regulations of the zone in which the development is situated are waived to
allow flexibility and initiative in site, building design and location, and
housing mix in accordance with an approved plan and imposed general
requirements.
   SENSITIVE LANDS. Land that has little to no development potential. Sensitive
lands can include floodplains or wetlands.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 05-09, passed - -; Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord.
27-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.431 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   A planned residential unit development (PRUD) is intended to allow for
diversification in the relationship of various uses and structures to their
sites and to permit more flexibility of such sites and to encourage new and
imaginative concepts in the design of neighborhood and housing projects in
urban areas.
   (B)   To this end, the development should be planned as one complex land use
rather than an aggregation of individual unrelated buildings located on
separate unrelated lots, and shall consist of a “mix” rather than a
standardized group of similar housing and building types.
   (C)   Substantial compliance with the zone regulations and other provisions
of this subchapter in requiring adequate standards related to the public
health, safety, and general welfare shall be observed without unduly inhibiting
the advantages of large-scale planning for residential and related purposes.
(Prior Code, § 32.04) (Ord. 05-09, passed - -; Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.432 PERMITTED ZONES.
    A planned residential unit development shall be permitted as a conditional
use in the A-1, A-2, R-1, R-2, and R-2.5 Zones, and not withstanding any other
provisions of this subchapter, the provisions as hereinafter set forth shall be
applicable if any conflict exists. Clustering of homes is allowed within a PRUD
subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 32.06) (Ord. 05-09, passed - -; Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord.
27-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.433 USE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    An overall development plan and master development agreement for a
planned residential unit development showing residential uses, housing types,
locations, sizes, height, number of residential units, access roads, common
open spaces, and the like may be approved by the Planning Commission and City
Council, and building permits issued in accordance with such plan, even though
the residential uses and dwelling types, and the location of the buildings
proposed, may differ from the residential uses and dwelling types and
regulations governing such uses in effect in the zone in which the development
is proposed; provided the requirements of this chapter are complied with.
Accessory non-residential uses may be included in planned residential unit
developments of 100 units or more to provide a necessary service to the
residents of the development as determined by the Planning Commission;
provided, agreements and restrictive covenants controlling the proposed uses,
ownership, operational characteristics, and physical design to the city’s
satisfaction are filed by, and entered into by, the developer to assure that
the approved necessary service’s intent is maintained.
   (B)   Once the overall development plan showing details of buildings,
structures, and uses has been approved according to the subdivisions ordinance,
no changes or alterations to said development plans or uses shall be made
without first obtaining the approval of the Planning Commission and City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.08) (Ord. 05-09, passed - -; Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord.
27-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.434 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)    A PRUD shall contain a minimum area of ten acres in all Agricultural
Zones, and contain a minimum area of four acres in all qualified Residential
Zones.
   (B)   A PRUD shall require a minimum of 20% of the gross site as open space.
A completed plan showing landscaping, amenities, and maintenance information is
required at preliminary approval. Common space and recreational areas should be
the focal point for the overall design of the development and easily accessible
to pedestrians.
      (1)   Open space areas shall not include areas that are occupied by
buildings, lots, structures, parking areas or streets. Additionally, required
open space shall not include:
         (a)   Area between buildings;
         (b)   Front, rear, and side yard setbacks or any area within a
residential lot; and
         (c)   Paved areas such as driveways and private sidewalks.
      (2)   The open space may include walking pathways, park benches,
playground equipment, sport courts, picnic areas, covered pavilions, gardens,
and shade trees. Any proposed building within the open space shall not be used
as a residence.
      (3)   Recreation and/or open space areas to be permanently reserved shall
be improved, landscaped, and maintained in accordance with a plan approved by
the Planning Commission and City Council. The landscaping plan must comply with
the landscaping ordinance as outlined in §§
157.985 through
157.999.
         (a)   To ensure that the recreation and/or open space parcels are
permanently reserved and maintained, the city shall require appropriate
covenants and agreements restricting the land perpetually as open space for
common use and for permanent maintenance of such areas by a homeowners'
association.
         (b)   Any open space that is being considered to be deeded to the city
shall meet all set requirements outlined by the Parks and Recreation Department
and be approved by City Council. One of the requirements shall be a contiguous
area of seven acres of area to be used as open space excluding any additional
parking area for the open space.
   (C)   The basic number of dwelling units in a PRUD shall be the same as the
number permitted by the lot area requirements of the same in which the PRUD is
located. The lot area may be reduced to match the clustering subdivision
ordinance. The density shall be calculated on the gross area of the site, but
shall not include sensitive lands or any land within the powerline easement.
Sensitive lands are defined as having little to no development potential.
Sensitive lands can include floodplains or wetlands.
   (D)   The basic number of dwelling units in a PRUD may be increased by up to
20% above the base density if the Planning Commission and City Council, in
their judgment, determine that the concept, site layout and design, the
residential groupings, and the aesthetic and landscaping proposals will provide
a superior residential development and environment to that which would result
through the normal land subdivision process. It will be up to the Planning
Commission and City Council to choose.
   (E)   The following is required for the additional density:
      (1)   Enhanced landscaping.
         (a)   Landscape includes one two-inch caliper tree per unit planted
within the park strip to create neighborhood identity.
         (b)   At least 40% of the open space shall include xeriscape, native
plants, and/or any type of water-wise landscape.
      (2)   Upgraded fencing. Fencing must be upgraded from chain link.
Upgraded fencing may include white three-rail fencing, vinyl or brick.
      (3)   Architecture.
         (a)   All units shall feature a front porch or balcony with sufficient
space for two seats and a walkway.
         (b)   Architectural variation between each household is required.
         (c)   Duplicating building facades on the same side of the street
shall not be allowed more than every fourth building.
      (4)   Moderate income housing restriction. At least 10% of the
development shall be dedicated to moderate income housing ownership and shall
follow the Utah State Code § 10-9a-103(39) definition, and as amended, as
"housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by households with a gross
household income equal to or less than 80% of the median gross income for
households of the same size in the county in which the city is located.” The
homes shall be deed restricted for a minimum of ten years. The master
development agreement shall have a section dedicated to this requirement.
      (5)   Any additional requirements that the Planning Commission and City
Council see fit may be added.
      (6)   The applicant may choose to do all of the above requirements or
propose any other amenity approved by Planning Commission and City Council.
   (F)   If a PRUD is located in two or more zones, then the number of units
allowed in the PRUD is the total of the units allowed in each zone; however,
the units allowed in each zone must be constructed in the respective zone.
   (G)   The city shall not allow housing unit credit transfer for lands being
used as common open spaces which have little or no possibility of housing
development.
(Prior Code, § 32.10) (Ord. 05-09, passed - -; Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord.
27-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.435 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    The development shall be in a single or corporate ownership at the
time of development or the subject of an application filed jointly by the
owners of the property.
   (B)   The property adjacent to the planned residential unit development
shall not be adversely affected, and to this end the Planning Commission may
require, in the absence of appropriate physical boundaries, that uses of least
intensity or greatest compatibility be arranged around the boundaries of the
project. Yard and height requirements of the adjacent zone may be required on
the immediate periphery of a PRUD.
   (C)   Building uses, building locations, lot area, width, yard, height, and
coverage regulations proposed shall be determined acceptable by approval of the
site development plan and included in the required master development
agreement. All proposed roads within the development shall follow the
subdivision ordinance and the West Haven public works standards.
   (D)   There must be a minimum of 25 feet setback from the property line to
the garage and the width must be equivalent to the width of the garage
structure. The interior of the garage must provide at least 180 square feet for
each car parking inside.
   (E)   All parking must comply with the requirements set in the parking
ordinance as outlined in §§
157.631 through
157.640. All guest parking must be evenly distributed throughout the
development.
   (F)   Any proposed fencing shall comply with §
157.600 under supplementary and qualifying regulations. Any additional height
desired for the fencing must be approved by Planning Commission.
   (G)   The City Council, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission,
shall require the preservation, maintenance, and ownership of the common open
space utilizing, at the city’s option, one of the following methods:
      (1)   Dedication of the land as a public park or parkway system if it
seen appropriate by the Parks and Recreation Director;
      (2)   Granting to the city a permanent common open space easement on and
over the said private open spaces to guarantee that the open spaces remain
perpetually in access, parking, recreation, or open space uses, with ownership
and maintenance being the responsibility of a Homeowners’ Association
established with articles of association and bylaws which are satisfactory to
the city; or
      (3)   Complying with the provisions of the Condominium Ownership Act, UCA
Title 57, Chapter 8, as amended, which provides for the payment of common
expenses for the upkeep of common areas and facilities.
   (H)   Recreation uses and facilities may be developed within the common open
space areas in compliance with the recreation and landscaping plan being a part
of the approved final level development plan of the PRUD.
   (I)   The developer shall be required to provide a surety by escrow or bank
letter of line of credit in an amount determined by the City Engineer,
sufficient to guarantee the completion of the development of the common open
space, or a phase thereof. When completed in accordance with the approved plan,
the bond shall be released, except for the warranty amount.
   (J)   If uncompleted at the end of two years, the city will review the
progress and may proceed to use the surety funds to make the improvements to
the open space areas in accordance with the approved plan. The surety shall be
approved by the City Manager and shall be filed with the City Recorder. If the
second or third methods, as set forth above, are utilized to maintain the
common open spaces, but the organization fails to maintain the open space in
reasonable order and condition, the city may, at its option, do or contract to
have done the required maintenance, and shall assess ratable the open space and
individually owned properties within the PRUD. Such assessment shall be a lien
against the property and shall be filed with the City Recorder, or the city may
bring suit to collect the maintenance fees together with reasonable attorney’s
fees and costs.
   (K)   If the planned residential unit development, or phase thereof, is to
be subsequently divided as a subdivision into phase development parcels or
separately owned and operated units, such division boundaries shall be
indicated on the development plan and preliminary subdivision approval
concurrently obtained in the case of a subdivision.
   (L)   The area shall be adaptable to a unit-type development and shall not
contain within or through it any ownership or physical barrier which would tend
to impair the unit cohesiveness.
   (M)   All proposed residential developments, with the exception of normal
land subdivisions, within the city equal to, or in excess of, the minimum area
requirements for a PRUD as set forth in §
157.434 shall comply with the provisions of this subchapter and be developed as
a planned residential unit development.
(Prior Code, § 32.12) (Ord. 05-09, passed - -; Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord.
27-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.436 BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The Building Inspector shall not issue any permit for any proposed building
structure or use within the project unless such building, structure, or use is
conditionally imposed. Approved development plans shall be filed with the
Planning Commission, Building Inspector, and City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 32.22) (Ord. 05-09, passed - -; Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord.
27-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.437 TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   Unless there is substantial action leading toward completion of a
PRUD, or an approved phase thereof, within a period of 18 months from the date
of approval, as determined by the City Council, such approval shall expire
unless, after reconsideration of the progress of the project, an extension is
approved.
   (B)   Upon expiration, the land and structures thereon, if any, may be used
for any other permitted use in the zone in which the project is located.
   (C)   Reserved open space shall be maintained where necessary to protect and
blend existing structures into alternate land use proposals after abandonment
of a project.
(Prior Code, § 32.24) (Ord. 05-09, passed - -; Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord.
27-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.438 SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a planned residential unit development shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission and City Council and shall be accompanied
by an overall development plan showing uses, dimensions, and locations of
proposed structures, areas reserved for public uses, such as schools and
playgrounds, landscaping, recreational facilities and open spaces, areas
reserved, and proposals for, accommodating vehicular and pedestrian
circulations, parking, and the like, development phases, and architectural
drawings and sketches demonstrating the design and character of the proposed
development.
   (B)   Such other information shall be included as may be necessary to
determine that the contemplated arrangement of uses make it desirable to apply
regulations and requirements differing from those ordinarily applicable under
this chapter.
(Prior Code,§ 32.14) (Ord. 05-09, passed - -; Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord.
27-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.439 PLANNING COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL CONSIDERATION AND ACTION.
   In considering the proposed planned residential unit development, the
Planning Commission and City Council shall consider:
   (A)   The architectural design of buildings and their relationship on the
site and development beyond the boundaries of the proposal;
   (B)   Which streets shall be public and which shall be private; the
entrances and exits to the development and the provisions for internal and
external traffic circulation, and off-street parking;
   (C)   The landscaping and screening as related to the several uses within
the development and as a means of its integration into its surroundings;
   (D)   The size, location, design, and nature of signs, if any, and the
intensity and direction of the area of floodlighting;
   (E)   (1)   The residential density of the proposed development, the amount
of housing "mix," and its distribution as compared with the residential density
of the surrounding lands, either existing or as indicated on the zoning map or
master plan proposals of the city as being a desirable future residential
density; and
      (2)   The demonstrated ability of the proponents of the planned
residential unit development to financially carry out the proposed project
under total or phase development proposals within the time limit established.
   (F)   In approving an application, the City Council may attach such
conditions, including a limitation of time during which the permit remains
valid, as it may deem necessary to secure the purposes of this subchapter.
Approval of the City Council, together with any conditions imposed, constitutes
approval of the proposed development as a conditional use in the one in which
it is proposed.
(Ord. 27-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.440 PROCEDURES FOR PROCESSING A PLANNED RESIDENTIAL UNIT DEVELOPMENT
(PRUD).
   (A)   Application conference. Prior to applying for a PRUD, the applicant
shall arrange for and attend a meeting with planning and engineering staff and
the Parks and Recreation and Fire Departments. The primary purpose of the
conference shall be to provide the applicant with an opportunity to gather
information and obtain guidance as to the general suitability of his or her
proposal for the area for which it is proposed and its conformity to the
provisions of this subchapter before incurring substantial expense in the
preparation of plans, surveys and other data.
   (B)   Concept plan. The plan should include the following: overall density
ranges, general location of all proposed structures, their types, general
location of streets, paths and open space, exterior design, any additional
special features, and approximate phasing of the development. Planning
Commission and City Council shall consider, but are not limited to, the
following criteria for a PRUD:
      (1)   Degree of consistency of the proposed PRUD with the surrounding
area in terms of character and density.
      (2)   The nature, intent, and compatibility of the required common open
space, including the proposed method of maintenance and conservation.
      (3)   The feasibility of the specified stages contained in the
preliminary development plan to exist as an independent development.
      (4)   The benefits of the development to the general public and/or any
reasoning for the added density.
   (C)   Preliminary approval and master development agreement (MDA). After
receiving approval of the concept plan, the rest of the checklist for
preliminary approval shall be completed and an MDA shall be drafted and
reviewed by planning staff and the City Attorney. After that review, the MDA
will be noticed up for public hearing and it will be reviewed by Planning
Commission in which they will give a motion to City Council. City Council is
the legislative body that may approve the MDA.
   (D)   Final plan. Following approval of the concept plan and MDA, the
applicant shall receive a checklist with all necessary items needed to get
final approval. Items include obtaining a geotech report, preparing the final
civil drawings, receiving final engineering review, fire review, and getting
all necessary will-serve letters. Engineering staff may require a traffic
report and, if applicable, UDOT approval shall be required. The application
shall proceed and be acted upon in accordance with the procedures in the
subdivision ordinance.
(Ord. 27-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.441 MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (MDA) REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Subdivision ordinance requirements shall apply to all subdivisions.
The developer shall submit a residential development plan of all project phases
for city consideration and approval and shall integrate the proposed
development plan into a development agreement between the developer and city.
The development agreement shall undergo an administrative review process to
ensure compliance with city ordinances and standards with approval from the
City Council. The property shall be developed in accordance with the
development agreement, and current city ordinances, including the development
requirements as identified within this chapter.
   (B)   The MDA for review shall include, but is not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   A legal description of the land subject to the agreement and the
names of the legal and equitable owners;
      (2)   A general description of the development, the development uses
permitted on the land including proposed densities, and building uses and
height, and a description of the impacts and benefits of the development;
      (3)   A description of the public facilities that will service the
development, including those that are to be dedicated, constructed or financed
by the developer;
      (4)   The date construction of such new facilities will be completed and
operation of such facilities will begin;
      (5)   Descriptions of all proposed phases;
      (6)   A schedule to assure public facilities are available concurrent
with impacts of the development;
      (7)   A description of any reservations or dedications of land for public
purpose;
      (8)   A description of all local development permits approved or needed
to be approved for the development of the land;
      (9)   A provision that all public facilities to be provided by the
applicant will be constructed or bonded prior to the issuance of a building
permit for all or any portion of the proposed development; and
      (10)   Such other provisions as are determined by the city to be
necessary for the public health, safety, or welfare. The development agreement
is subject to the approval of City Council as part of the approval process. The
applicant shall record the development agreement in the Weber County Recorder's
Office.
(Ord. 27-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU)
§ 157.455 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU). A subordinate dwelling, which has its own
eating, sleeping, and sanitation facilities which is:
      (1)   Within or attached to a single-family residential building; or
      (2)   Within a detached accessory structure associated with a single-
family dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.456 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to recognize the
residential character of the city and to provide for supplementary living
accommodations in the community, as well as provide for supplementary income
opportunities of property owners.
   (B)   These provisions are intended to provide for affordable housing with
reasonable limitations to minimize the impact on neighboring properties and
neighborhoods, and to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the property
owners and residents of accessory dwelling units.
(Prior Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.457 OWNER OCCUPIED.
   (A)   No accessory dwelling unit shall be created, established, or occupied
in a single-family dwelling unless the owner of the property occupies either a
portion of the main dwelling or a detached accessory unit on the same single-
family lot. For the purpose of this section, the term OWNER OCCUPIED shall be
defined as full-time residency within the home by the bona fide property owner
(s) for more than 275 days in every calendar year.
   (B)   Owner occupancy for a dwelling with an accessory dwelling unit shall
not be required when:
      (1)   The owner cannot live in the dwelling because of a bona fide
temporary absence of three years or less for a temporary job assignment,
sabbatical, or voluntary service;
      (2)   The owner was living in the dwelling immediately prior to leaving
for the temporary job assignment, sabbatical, or voluntary service; and
      (3)   The owner intends to make the dwelling his or her primary place of
residence upon returning from the temporary job assignment, sabbatical, or
voluntary service.
(Prior Code, § 33.06) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.458 DWELLING UNIT OCCUPANCY.
   The occupants of an accessory dwelling unit shall be limited by one of the
following family categories:
   (A)   One person living alone;
   (B)   Two or more persons all related by blood, by marriage, by adoption, by
legal guardianship, or foster children;
   (C)   Up to four unrelated persons living as a single housekeeping unit;
   (D)   Any of the above categories plus a temporary guest. A TEMPORARY GUEST
is defined as a person who stays with a family for a period of less than 14
days within any rolling one-year period and does not utilize the dwelling as a
legal address for any purpose; and
   (E)   For purposes of the definition of family, the term RELATED shall mean
a spouse, parent, child, stepchild, grandparent, grandchild, brother, sister,
uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, first cousins, great-grandparent, and great-
grandchild. The term RELATED does not include other, more distant
relationships.
(Prior Code, § 33.08) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.459 ZONES.
   An accessory dwelling unit which meets subchapter requirements may be
allowed in a single-family dwelling unit or in a detached accessory structure
within any zone upon a single-family lot. No accessory dwelling unit may be
allowed in any multiple-family dwelling or multiple-family lot, or on any lot
that cannot satisfy the parking, setback, or lot coverage requirements.
(Prior Code, § 33.10) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.460 NUMBER OF ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
   A maximum of one accessory dwelling unit shall be allowed in each owner-
occupied single-family dwelling, or in a detached accessory structure
associated with a single-family dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 33.12) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.461 LOCATION AND TYPE.
   (A)   Accessory dwelling units may be allowed within or attached to the main
residential dwelling (basement or addition), over the garage (attached or
detached), or in a detached accessory structure (cottage home, or guest house).
   (B)   Accessory dwelling units as an addition to a primary dwelling shall
meet all minimum setback standards required for the primary dwelling.
   (C)   Behind the primary dwelling, an accessory dwelling unit within an
accessory structure must meet the minimum of side yard required by the zone for
the primary dwelling and a rear yard setback of 20 feet, unless no windows,
doors, or other openings are adjacent to the property line, in which case the
allowed setback shall be 15 feet.
   (D)   Adjacent to the primary dwelling, an accessory dwelling unit within
the side yard of the primary dwelling is required to meet the same front, side,
and rear yard setback as the primary dwelling.
   (E)   Second-story accessory dwelling units, an accessory dwelling unit
located in an accessory structure, may only be located on a second story if the
structure meets the same minimum standards in the zone for height, as well as
front, side, and rear setback, as the primary dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 33.14) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.462 APPEARANCE.
   Single-family residences with interior accessory dwelling units shall retain
the appearance of a single-family home. An accessory dwelling unit in an
accessory structure shall be designed so that, to the degree reasonably
feasible, the appearance of the building is compatible with the architectural
components of the primary dwelling unit (for example, exterior materials,
color, and roof pitch).
(Prior Code, § 33.16) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.463 SIZE.
   (A)   Basement dwelling units. Shall be permitted to occupy the entirety of
the basement of the primary home regardless of area or bedroom count; and
   (B)   Accessory dwelling units (detached structures). The size of an
accessory dwelling unit shall be at least 300 square feet and shall not exceed
1,200 square feet, and be limited to no more than three bedrooms.
(Prior Code, § 33.18) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.464 LOT COVERAGE.
   (A)   The combined building coverage for the detached accessory dwelling
units, main dwelling, and additional accessory buildings may not be larger than
the maximum coverage allowed in the zone for the lot and rear yards.
   (B)   The coverage may not exceed 35% of the total lot size.
(Prior Code, § 33.20) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.465 BUILDING ENTRANCES.
   A new single-family structure approved with an accessory dwelling unit
attached to, or detached from, the main dwelling unit shall have a separate,
accessible entrance or stairway. An accessory dwelling unit approved in an
existing structure may use existing entrances on any side of the structure that
faces a street, or a side or rear entrance. Dwellings with two front doors
side-by-side may not be used to provide separate entrances for each unit, with
the exception of dwellings where the second door provides direct access to the
dwelling basement. The purpose of this requirement is to preserve the single-
family residential appearance of the building.
(Prior Code, § 33.22) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.466 ADDRESS.
   The principal dwelling unit and the accessory dwelling unit shall have the
same address number, but shall refer to the accessory dwelling unit as “Unit
B.” Addresses must be located in a visible location on the street frontage side
of the home.
(Prior Code, § 33.24) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.467 PARKING.
   (A)   A single-family dwelling with an accessory dwelling unit shall provide
at least one additional off-street parking space for the accessory unit above
the minimum spaces required for a single-family dwelling. Accessory dwelling
unit parking may not be in tandem with required parking of the main dwelling.
One additional off-street parking space shall be required for accessory
dwelling units with two or more bedrooms. ADUs located within one-fourth mile
of a bus rapid transit route shall be permitted to reduce the parking
requirement by one space for the main dwelling unit.
   (B)   No parking spaces may be located within the front or side yard
setbacks adjacent to a street, except for within an approved driveway.
   (C)   The minimum width of parking areas and driveways shall be paved with
concrete or asphalt.
(Prior Code, § 33.26) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.468 SEPARATE LIVING AREAS.
   An accessory dwelling unit must provide living areas for eating, sleeping,
and sanitation facilities separate from the principal dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 33.28) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.469 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   All construction and remodeling shall comply with building codes and
ordinance requirements in effect at the time of construction or remodeling, in
accordance with Utah State Code § 10-9a-511.5, “Changes to Dwellings–Egress
Windows.”
   (B)   A certificate of occupancy must be obtained for an ADU before it can
be occupied.
(Prior Code, § 33.30) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020; Ord. 23-2024, passed 7-3-
2024)
§ 157.470 UTILITY METERS.
    A single-family dwelling with an accessory dwelling unit may have separate
meters for each water, gas, and electricity utility service. Each utility meter
shall be in the property owner’s name, and the property owner shall be
responsible for payment of all utilities. The owner is responsible for
contacting their water, electric and gas provider for any possible additional
water development, utility meter, and/or connection fee.
(Prior Code, § 33.32) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020; Ord. 23-2024, passed 7-3-
2024)
§ 157.471 INTERIOR ACCESS.
   An interior access between the main living area and an attached accessory
dwelling unit must be maintained, unless sufficient means of egress have been
determined during an inspection by the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.34) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.472 NOT INTENDED FOR SALE.
   The accessory dwelling unit shall not be intended for sale or detached by
deed, and shall only be rented.
(Prior Code, § 33.36) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.473 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person owning an existing accessory dwelling unit that has not
previously been permitted by the city, or any person constructing, or causing
the construction of, a residence that has an accessory dwelling unit, or any
person remodeling, or causing the remodeling of, a residence for an accessory
dwelling unit, shall obtain a land use permit for the accessory dwelling unit
from the city. This shall be in addition to any required building permit for
the work to be performed.
   (B)   In order to meet the requirements of the land use permit, the
applicant shall:
      (1)   Submit a completed application form including a site plan that
shows property lines and dimensions, the location of existing buildings and
building entrances, proposed buildings or additions, dimensions from buildings
or additions to property lines, the location of parking stalls, and utility
meters;
      (2)   Include detailed floor plans with labels on rooms indicating uses
or proposed uses;
      (3)   Pay building permit fees, if applicable, for the construction of a
new dwelling, or the remodeling of an existing dwelling, in accordance with the
established fees and charges;
      (4)   Make all corrections identified as necessary to comply with
building code requirements, as identified by the Chief Building Official, or
his or her designee, and provide photos of the life safety items required by
building code, including carbon monoxide detectors, smoke detectors, and
earthquake strapping on water heaters;
      (5)   Demonstrate and affirm that their property is otherwise in
compliance with all other provisions of the zoning ordinance;
      (6)   The city has no obligation or responsibility to research and
enforce an applicant’s property’s existing private covenants, conditions, or
restrictions prohibiting an ADU;
      (7)   It is the exclusive responsibility of a property owner to research
and have full knowledge and understanding of those private covenants,
conditions, or restrictions that run with, and are attached to, their property;
and
      (8)   By submitting an application to the city for an ADU, the applicant
is certifying that they have full knowledge and understanding of those private
covenants, conditions, or restrictions that run with their property and have a
full understanding of whether those items prohibit an ADU.
(Prior Code, § 33.38) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.474 EXCEPTIONS TO STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may issue a conditional use permit for ADUs
which modify the requirements for an ADU with respect to maximum size, minimum
parking, or setback.
   (B)   In approving a conditional use permit, the Planning Commission may
require additional conditions to mitigate the impact of the ADU on surrounding
properties. Specifically, the Planning Commission may require:
      (1)   For ADUs that exceed the maximum size of 1,200 square feet:
increased setbacks, privacy fencing, limitation on windows and doors adjacent
to abutting property lines, and additional parking;
      (2)   For ADUs with reduced or no additional parking: restrictions on
occupancy to tenants without vehicles; and
      (3)   For ADUs with reduced setbacks: privacy fencing and limitation on
windows and doors adjacent to abutting property lines.
(Prior Code, § 33.40) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.475 FAILURE TO COMPLETE AND OBTAIN A LAND USE PERMIT.
   (A)   If the property owner does not obtain a land use permit as outlined
above, the accessory dwelling unit shall not be considered legal nor approved.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a land use permit for an existing accessory dwelling
unit within one year of the passing of this section may result in a citation
for a code violation as governed by the process for enforcement in the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.42) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.476 HOME OCCUPATION BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Home occupation businesses in an accessory dwelling unit shall be
restricted to a home office use which creates no customer traffic.
   (B)   No home occupation business shall be established within an accessory
dwelling unit without the express written permission of the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 33.44) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.477 RESERVED.
§ 157.478 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   Manufactured homes, also known as mobile homes and recreational vehicles, or
trailers, are not allowed as an ADU.
(Prior Code, § 33.48) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.479 USE REGULATIONS.
   No building, structure, or land shall be used, and no building or structure
shall be hereafter erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or maintained in a
Single-Family Residential District or Multiple Residential District, except as
provided in this table.
Zone A-1, A-2, R-1 Open Space R-2 R-2.5 R-4 Mixed Use
Zone                           A-1, A-2, R-1 Open Space R-2 R-2.5 R-4 Mixed Use
Coverage Regulations
The maximum coverage percent
for any lot in the districts   35%           35%        35% 35%   35% 35%
regulated by this subchapter
The maximum coverage percent
for any rear yard by accessory 25%           25%        25% 25%   25% 25%
buildings
Residential
Four-family dwelling           -             -          -   -     -   -
Group of dwellings (including
two home, and the like) when   -             -          -   -     -   -
approved as a planned unit
development
Multiple-family dwelling       -             -          -   -     -   -
Single-family dwelling         P             P          P   P     P   P
Three-family dwelling          -             -          -   -     -   -
Two-family dwelling            -             -          -   -     -   -
 
(Prior Code, § 33.50) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.480 AREA OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   No accessory building or group of accessory buildings in any Residential
District shall cover more than 25% of the rear yard.
(Prior Code, § 33.52) (Ord. 11-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
RESIDENTIAL SHORT-TERM RENTAL (STR)
§ 157.495 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This subchapter provides regulations and design standards for
residential short-term rentals (STRs) for single-family and multiple-family
neighborhoods. These standards seek to allow for STRs while also protecting the
safety and general welfare of the city residents and preserving the residential
character of city neighborhoods.
   (B)   In allowing STRs, this section provides existing property homeowners
economic relief who might otherwise be forced to leave a neighborhood, thus
promoting and preserving affordable housing in the city. This section is
designed, and its purpose is, to stabilize neighborhoods by promoting home
ownership.
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 12-2020, passed 5-6-2020; Ord. 07-2021, passed 2-3-
2021)
§ 157.496 RESIDENTIAL SHORT TERM RENTAL.
   An STR is prohibited in all residential dwellings and Residential Districts
without first obtaining a short-term rental business license as provided in
this subchapter, and being issued a valid business license. The following are
exempt and shall not be subject to this section:
   (A)   A residential lease of 30 or more consecutive days; and
   (B)   RV parks, campgrounds, hotels, and motels, as described and regulated
in the city code.
(Prior Code, § 34.02) (Ord. 12-2020, passed 5-6-2020; Ord. 07-2021, passed 2-3-
2021)
§ 157.497 BUSINESS LICENSE; ROOM TAX.
   (A)   The owner must continuously maintain, in force and effect, a city
business license for each short-term rental property and timely pay all taxes
and fees relating to such business, including, without limitation, the
transient room tax of 1% as provided in UCA §§ 59-12-352 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   An owner may designate a separate agent to act as the operator of the
owner’s short term rental property and may authorize the operator to apply for,
obtain, and maintain the business license and to prepare, submit, and remit
associated taxes, reports, and fees; however, the business license shall be in
the owner’s name.
   (C)   License applications shall contain such information as the License
Official shall, from time to time, require, including the location of the
short-term rental property, the number of bedrooms contained in such property,
the number and availability of appropriate parking spaces, the name, address,
and telephone number of the owner, the name, address, and telephone number of
any non-owner operator, and a telephone number for which a responsible party
may be reached 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
   (D)   For the purpose of regulation and to defray the cost of municipal
regulation and administration, an annual short-term rental business license
fee, as set forth in the city fee schedule, shall be levied and assessed for
each short-term rental. Failure to pay the annual fee shall result in the
revocation of the license.
   (E)   Before a license is granted hereunder, the short-term rental property
must pass a Fire Code inspection.
   (F)   The requirements for short-term rentals are intended to preserve the
neighborhood feel of residential communities.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) (Ord. 07-2021, passed 2-3-2021)
§ 157.498 GENERAL STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   An STR use may be allowed within any existing legal residential dwelling by
a short-term rental business license from the city, if the application
demonstrates compliance with requirements of the city Land Development Code and
the following standards and requirements:
   (A)   Application. A completed application form provided by the city;
   (B)   Property description. A detailed written description and drawing of
the property that identifies the use of each room of the dwelling and fully
describes the portions of the dwelling to be used for an STR shall be provided.
Only one designated STR area is allowed for a property;
   (C)   Owner occupancy. The owner of the subject property shall live in the
primary dwelling in which an STR is desired, and must reside there as their
primary residence.
      (1)   An individual shall prove ownership of the property by way of a
copy of a transfer deed listing the applicant as the fee title owner. The fee
title owner may be an individual or trustor of a family trust that possesses
50% or more ownership of the proposed STR. The fee title owner may not be a
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or similar entity.
      (2)   To establish that the property is the owner’s primary residence,
the owner shall:
         (a)   Present a government-issued identification document listing the
address of the property as the address of the owner; together with a property
tax statement showing taxed as primary residence; and
         (b)   Provide a signed affidavit sworn before a notary public stating
that the proposed property is the primary residence of the owner, where they
reside at least 183 days per calendar year.
   (D)   Occupancy during rental period. The subject property shall comply with
the following occupancy restrictions.
      (1)   The applicant shall provide the maximum renter occupancy proposed
and demonstrate that sufficient parking has been provided off-street at a rate
of one-half space per bedroom or sleeping area, with at least one space.
      (2)   The property shall not be rented to more than one renter at any
given time, and the owner shall not divide and rent out portions of the
dwelling to multiple renters simultaneously.
      (3)   A property shall not be exclusively rented as an STR for more than
182 nights per year.
      (4)   The property shall only be rented for a minimum duration of one
night and a maximum of 20 consecutive nights for each renter.
   (E)   Parking plan. A detailed written description and a drawing of an off-
street parking plan must be provided to ensure that all occupants of the home
and STR can be accommodated on-site. Parking shall be limited to the existing
garage, driveway, and dedicated parking spots of the residential unit and may
not include any on-street parking. Shared guest parking as part of a multiple-
family dwelling shall only be permitted upon express written approval of the
HOA or property management, as applicable. Any proposed parking improvements
shall also be included in the off-street parking plan, and must be completed
prior to issuance of an STR business license. All elements of the parking plan
must comply with all other requirements of this title;
   (F)   Conflict of private restrictions. The city has no obligation or
responsibility to research and enforce an applicant’s property’s existing
private covenants, conditions, or restrictions prohibiting STRs. It is the
exclusive responsibility of a property owner to research and have full
knowledge and understanding of those private covenants, conditions, or
restrictions that run with, and are attached to, his or her property. By
submitting an application to the city for an STR, the applicant is certifying
that he or she has full knowledge and understanding of those private covenants,
conditions, or restrictions that run with his or her property and have a full
understanding of whether those items prohibit an STR;
   (G)   Urgent response.
      (1)   The owner, or a designated representative, shall be available to
immediately respond 24 hours a day, 365 days a year by telephone, and when
necessary, be able to physically respond within one hour of any legitimate
complaint; and
      (2)   If the owner is unreachable after three attempted contacts by the
city, a notice of violation will be issued.
   (H)   Property maintenance requirements. All short-term rentals shall adhere
to all city ordinances, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Owners must adhere to the property maintenance regulations in this
code, including, but not limited to, requirements for weed abatement,
landscaping, garbage removal, structure maintenance, and fence/wall
maintenance; and
      (2)   Owners shall remove all snow from the sidewalks of the property
within 24 hours after snowfall in accordance with this code.
   (I)   Noise and nuisance control. Owners shall ensure that renters adhere to
the noise ordinance of this code. Should a renter violate the noise ordinance
more than once in any given 72-hour period, they shall be immediately evicted
from the property by the owner; and
   (J)   Noticing and posting requirements. A renter informational packet must
be maintained in a highly-visible place within the dwelling or STR area, and
must include the following:
      (1)   City-issued STR business license;
      (2)   The 24/7 owner’s, or a designated representative’s, contact
information;
      (3)   Parking requirements, including site map of approved designated
parking areas;
      (4)   Approved maximum occupancy;
      (5)   The noise ordinance of the city;
      (6)   Garbage pick-up dates, and a written description of where garbage
receptacles must be placed for pick-up;
      (7)   Contact information for the City Police and County Fire District;
and
      (8)   Other contact information or information related to other
regulations or conditions of an approval through the land use permit process,
as required by the city.
(Prior Code, § 34.04) (Ord. 12-2020, passed 5-6-2020; Ord. 07-2021, passed 2-3-
2021)
§ 157.499 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be a violation for any person to operate an STR:
   (A)   Without first obtaining an STR land use permit, as regulated in this
subchapter, and before having been issued a valid STR business license; or
   (B)   That does not comply with the requirements of this subchapter, the
revised ordinances of the city, or the city land development code.
(Prior Code, § 34.05) (Ord. 12-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.500 ENFORCEMENT AND FINES.
   Upon a determination that a violation exists, the Code Enforcement Officer,
or his or her designee, will contact the owner, and shall require such owner to
halt, eradicate, destroy, remove, or otherwise cure the violation within 48
hours, or such later time the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee,
may determine.
(Prior Code, § 34.06) (Ord. 12-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 157.501 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   RENTER. A single person or group of people who provide compensation, in any
form, in exchange for occupancy of a dwelling unit, or portion thereof, under
one lease or rental agreement.
(Prior Code, § 34.07) (Ord. 12-2020, passed 5-6-2020)
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 157.515 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This subchapter sets forth requirements for considering and approving
conditional use permits.
   (B)   A conditional use permit allows evaluation of a land use proposed at a
particular location to determine if the use may detrimentally affect the city,
surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses.
   (C)   Conditional uses are allowed unless the reasonably-anticipated
detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially
mitigated by imposing reasonable conditions to comply with the standards in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 06-2016, passed 3-16-
2016)
§ 157.516 AUTHORITY.
   The Planning Commission may approve or deny conditional use permits as
provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 06-2016, passed 3-16-
2016)
§ 157.517 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   A conditional use permit shall be required for any land use listed as a
conditional use in the zone regulations in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 06-2016, passed 3-16-
2016)
§ 157.518 REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application. Application for a conditional use permit shall be made to
the Building Official using application forms provided by the city.
   (B)   Information required. Detailed location, site, and building plans
shall accompany an application for a conditional use. For a conditional use in
an existing structure, only a location plan must be provided.
   (C)   Consideration. The application, with all pertinent information, shall
be considered by the Planning Commission at its next regularly-scheduled
meeting.
   (D)   Public hearing. The Planning Commission may hold a public hearing on
any application after adequate notice if it is deemed in the public interest.
The Planning Commission shall take action on the application by the second
meeting of the Planning Commission after the application filing date.
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 06-2016, passed 3-16-
2016)
§ 157.519 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   Approval. A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions
are proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably-anticipated
detrimental effects of the use pursuant to the standards set forth in §
157.520. Any such conditions shall be included in a written document
authorizing the conditional use permit.
   (B)   Denial. A proposed conditional use may be denied only if substantial
evidence demonstrates:
      (1)   The use is not a conditional use in the zone where the use is
proposed to be located;
      (2)   The use does not comply with the regulations and conditions
specified in this subchapter for such use; or
      (3)   The anticipated detrimental effects of the use cannot be
substantially mitigated by imposing reasonable conditions.
   (C)   Detrimental effects analysis. In analyzing the potential detrimental
effects of a proposed conditional use, the Planning Commission may consider any
of the factors in §
157.520 that may apply and whether the use should be approved as proposed by
the applicant, approved with conditions, or denied. The Planning Commission may
require an applicant to provide reasonably-available information that the
Planning Commission considers necessary to address such factors.
(Prior Code, § 35.05) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 06-2016, passed 3-16-
2016)
§ 157.520 CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS.
   This section sets forth standards for determining whether a conditional use
will have any detrimental effect and should be approved as proposed, approved
with conditions, or denied. Because some standards may, or may not, relate to a
particular conditional use, the Planning Commission shall determine which
standards will be considered in analyzing the possible detrimental effects that
may result from a proposed conditional use.
   (A)   General plan. The proposed use conforms to policies of the city’s
general plan.
   (B)   Site design. The use is well-suited to the character of the site and
adjacent uses as shown by an analysis of the intensity, size, and scale of the
use compared to existing uses in the surrounding area.
   (C)   Access. Access to the site avoids traffic and pedestrian conflicts and
does not unreasonably impact the service level of any adjacent street.
   (D)   Circulation. On-site vehicle circulation and truck loading areas
mitigate adverse impacts on adjacent property.
   (E)   Parking. The location and design of off-street parking complies with
standards of this subchapter.
   (F)   Refuse collection. The locations and design of the refuse collection
areas are not likely to create an adverse impact on the occupants of adjoining
property.
   (G)   Utility services. Utility capacity supports the use at normal service
levels.
   (H)   Screening. The use is appropriately screened, buffered, or separated
from adjoining dissimilar uses to mitigate potential use conflicts. Fencing,
screening, and landscape treatments and other features increase the
attractiveness of the site and protect adjoining property owners from noise and
visual impacts.
   (I)   Operating hours. The hours of operation of the use and delivery of
goods are not likely to adversely affect surrounding uses.
   (J)   Signs. Sign size, location, and lighting are compatible with, and do
not adversely affect, surrounding uses.
   (K)   Public services. Public facilities such as streets, water, sewer,
storm drainage, public safety, and fire protection are adequate to serve the
use.
   (L)   Environmental impact. The use does not significantly adversely affect
the quality of surrounding air and water, encroach into a waterway or drainage
area, or introduce any hazard to the premises or any adjacent property.
   (M)   Nuisance. Operation of the use is unlikely to create any nuisance from
noise, vibration, smoke, dust, dirt, odor, noxious matter, heat, glare,
electromagnetic disturbance, or radiation.
(Prior Code, § 35.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 06-2016, passed 3-16-
2016)
§ 157.521 NOTICE OF DECISION.
   Within ten days after the Planning Commission makes a final decision to
approve or deny a conditional use permit, the Building Official shall send
written notice thereof to the applicant, including any conditions of approval.
If a conditional use is approved, such notice shall be recorded against the
property by the City Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 35.07) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 06-2016, passed 3-16-
2016)
§ 157.522 APPEAL OF DECISION.
   Any person adversely affected by a final decision of the Planning Commission
regarding a conditional use permit may appeal such decision to the Hearing
Appeals Officer as provided in city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 35.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 06-2016, passed 3-16-
2016)
§ 157.523 EFFECT OF APPROVAL.
   A conditional use permit shall not relieve an applicant from obtaining any
other authorization, permit, or license required under this subchapter or any
other chapter of this code.
(Prior Code, § 35.09) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 06-2016, passed 3-16-
2016)
§ 157.524 AMENDMENT.
   A conditional use permit may be amended subject to the original approval
procedure in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 06-2016, passed 3-16-
2016)
§ 157.525 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   A conditional use permit may be transferred if the use conducted conforms to
the permit.
(Prior Code, § 35.11) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 06-2016, passed 3-16-
2016)
§ 157.526 ENFORCEMENT OF PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   The Building Official shall ensure development under a conditional use
permit is undertaken and completed in compliance with the permit, and any
conditions pertaining thereto.
(Prior Code, § 35.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 06-2016, passed 3-16-
2016)
§ 157.527 PERIODIC REVIEW.
   The Planning Commission may periodically review whether a conditional use is
being conducted in compliance with applicable requirements.
(Prior Code, § 35.13) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 06-2016, passed 3-16-
2016)
§ 157.528 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Grounds. Any of the following shall be grounds for revocation of a
conditional use permit:
      (1)   The holder or user of a permit has failed to comply with the
conditions of approval or any city, state, or federal law governing the conduct
of the use;
      (2)   The holder or user of a permit has failed to construct or maintain
the site as required by an approved site plan;
      (3)   The operation of the use or the character of the site has been
found to be a nuisance or a public nuisance by a court of competent
jurisdiction in any civil or criminal proceeding; and/or
      (4)   The conditional use was obtained through a misrepresentation or
fraud.
   (B)   Appearance by permit holder or user. No conditional use permit shall
be revoked against the wishes of the holder or user of the permit without first
giving such person an opportunity to appear before the Planning Commission and
show cause why the permit should not be revoked. Revocation of a conditional
use permit shall not limit the city’s ability to initiate or complete other
legal proceedings against the holder or user of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 35.14) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 06-2016, passed 3-16-
2016) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.529 EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Substantial action. A conditional use permit shall expire one year
after issuance unless substantial action, as determined by the Planning
Commission, is taken to implement the permit. Upon request by the holder or
user of a permit, filed with the Building Official prior to the expiration
date, the Planning Commission may grant a maximum extension of six months.
   (B)   Cessation of use. Once substantial action has been taken under a
conditional use permit, the permit shall expire if the use for which the permit
was granted has ceased for one year or more. The permit holder shall be given
written notice that the permit has expired.
(Prior Code, § 35.15) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 06-2016, passed 3-16-
2016)
SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
§ 157.540 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and objective of this subchapter is to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent the concentration of sexually-oriented
businesses or their location in areas deleterious to the interests of the city
and its residents, regulate the signage of such businesses, control the adverse
effects of such signage, and prevent inappropriate exposure of such businesses
to the community. This subchapter is to be construed as a regulation of time,
place, and manner of the operation of these businesses, consistent with the
United States and State Constitutions.
(Prior Code, § 36.02) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998)
§ 157.541 LOCATION OF BUSINESSES; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Outcall services shall be permitted in areas Zoned C-2 (General/
Commercial), C-3 (Transitional/Commercial), M (Manufacturing), BRP (Business/
Research Park), and RB (Residential/Business).
   (B)   Sexually-oriented businesses, except outcall services, shall only be
permitted in areas Zoned C-3 (Transitional/Commercial) and M (Manufacturing)
under this chapter, subject to the following additional restrictions:
      (1)   No sexually-oriented business shall be located:
         (a)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, public park, library, or
religious institution;
         (b)   Within 600 feet of any residential use or any agricultural or
residential zoning boundary;
         (c)   Within 600 feet of any other sexually-oriented business, except
outcall services; and/or
         (d)   Within 350 feet of any gateway corridor.
      (2)   The distance shall be measured from the right-of-way boundary.
   (C)   Distance requirements between structures and uses specified in this
subchapter shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or zoning districts, from the property boundaries of the school,
public park, religious or cultural activity, residential use, or other
sexually-oriented business, or from the right-of-way line of a gateway to the
structure of the sexually-oriented business.
   (D)   Distance requirements from zoning districts for this subchapter shall
be measured in a straight line without regard to intervening structures or
zoning districts, from the closest zoning boundary of a Residential or
Agricultural District to the sexually-oriented business structure.
(Prior Code, § 36.04) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998)
§ 157.542 EFFECT ON NONCONFORMING BUSINESSES.
   All existing legal, nonconforming sexually-oriented businesses, as of the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this subchapter, or any amendment
hereto, shall comply with the provisions of this subchapter within nine months
from the date this subchapter is enacted.
(Prior Code, § 36.06) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998)
§ 157.543 SIGNS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything contrary contained in this code, the more
restrictive requirements for signs shall prevail.
   (B)   Signs for sexually-oriented businesses shall be limited as follows:
      (1)   No more than one exterior sign shall be allowed;
      (2)   No sign shall be allowed to exceed 18 square feet;
      (3)   No animation shall be permitted on or around any sign, or on the
exterior walls or roof of such premises;
      (4)   No descriptive art or designs depicting any activity related to, or
inferring the nature of, the business shall be allowed on any sign. Said signs
shall contain alphanumeric copy only;
      (5)   Only flat wall signs and/or awning signs shall be permitted;
      (6)   Painted wall advertising shall not be allowed; and
      (7)   Other than the signs specifically allowed by this subchapter, the
sexually-oriented business shall not attach, construct, or allow to be attached
or constructed any temporary sign, banner, light, or other device designed to
draw attention to the business location.
(Prior Code, § 36.08) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998)
§ 157.544 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment:
      (1)   Which excludes minors from more than 15% of the retail floor or
shelf space of the premises; or
      (2)   Which, as one of its principal purposes, offers for sale or rental,
for any form of consideration, any one or more of the following: books,
magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter; or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, or video reproductions; slides, or other visual
representations, the central theme of which depicts or describes specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, or instruments, devices, or
paraphernalia which are designated for use in connection with specified sexual
activities; except for legitimate medically-recognized contraceptives.
   ADULT BUSINESS. An adult motion picture theater, adult bookstore, or adult
video store.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Excludes minors from the showing of two consecutive exhibitions
(repeated showings of any single presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
      (2)   As its principal business, shows, for any form of consideration,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions which are primarily characterized by the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which:
      (1)   Holds itself out as such a business;
      (2)   Excludes minors from the showing of two consecutive exhibitions
(repeated performances of the same presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
      (3)   As its principal business, features persons who appear in live
performances in a state of semi-nudity or which are characterized by the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   EMPLOY. Hiring an individual to work for pecuniary or any other form of
compensation, whether such person is hired on the payroll of the employer, as
an independent contractor, as an agent, or in any other form of employment
relationship.
   ESCORT. Any person who, for pecuniary compensation, dates, socializes,
visits, consorts with, or accompanies, or offers to date, consort, socialize,
visit, or accompany, another or others to, or about, social affairs,
entertainment, or places of amusement, or within any place of public or private
resort, or any business or commercial establishment, or any private quarters.
ESCORT shall not be construed to include persons who provide business or
personal services, such as licensed private nurses, aides for the elderly or
handicapped, social secretaries, or similar service personnel whose
relationship with their patron is characterized by a bona fide contractual
relationship having a duration of more than 12 hours and who provide a service
not principally characterized as dating or socializing. ESCORT shall also not
be construed to include persons providing services such as singing telegrams,
birthday greetings, or similar activities characterized by appearances in a
public place, contracted by a party other than the person for whom the service
is being performed, and of a duration not longer than one hour.
   ESCORT SERVICE. An individual or entity who, for pecuniary compensation,
furnishes, or offers to furnish, escorts, or provides, or offers to introduce,
patrons to escorts.
   ESCORT SERVICE RUNNER. Any third person, not an escort, who, for pecuniary
compensation, acts in the capacity of an agent or broker for an escort service,
escort, or patron by contacting or meeting with escort services, escorts, or
patrons at any location within the city, whether or not such third person is
employed by such escort service, escort, patron, or by another business, or is
an independent contractor or self-employed.
   NUDITY. A state of dress in which the areola of the female breast or male or
female genitals, pubic region, or anus are covered by less than the covering
required in the definition of SEMI-NUDE.
   OPERATOR. The manager or other natural person principally in charge of a
sexually-oriented business.
   OUTCALL SERVICES. Services of a type performed by a sexually-oriented
business employee outside of the premises of the licensed sexually-oriented
business, including, but not limited to, escorts, models, dancers, and other
similar employees.
   PATRON. Any person who contracts with or employs any escort services or
escort, or the customer of any business licensed pursuant to this subchapter.
   PECUNIARY COMPENSATION. Any commission, fee, salary, tip, gratuity, hire,
profit, reward, or any other form of consideration.
   PERSON. Any person, unincorporated association, corporation, partnership, or
other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which opaque clothing covers no more than the
areola of the female breast; and the male or female genitals, pubic region, and
anus shall be fully covered by an opaque covering no narrower than four inches
wide in the front and five inches wide in the back, which shall not taper to
less than one inch wide at the narrowest point.
   SEMI-NUDE DANCING AGENCY. Any person, agency, firm, corporation,
partnership, or any other entity or individual which furnishes, books, or
otherwise engages, or offers to furnish, book, or otherwise engage, the service
of a professional dancer licensed pursuant to this subchapter for performance
or appearance at a business licensed for adult theaters.
   SEMI-NUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. A business, including an adult theater,
where employees perform or appear in the presence of patrons of the business in
a state of semi-nudity. A business shall also be presumed to be a SEMI-NUDE
ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS if the business holds itself out as such a business.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Semi-nude entertainment businesses, sexually-
oriented outcall services, adult businesses, and semi-nude dancing agencies, as
defined by this subchapter.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES. Those employees who work on the
premises of a sexually-oriented business in activities related to the sexually-
oriented portion of the business. This includes all managing employees,
dancers, escorts, models, and other similar employees, whether or not hired as
employees, agents, or as independent contractors. Employees shall not include
individuals whose work is unrelated to the sexually-oriented portion of the
business, such as janitors, bookkeepers, and similar employees. SEXUALLY-
ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES shall not include cooks, serving persons, and
similar employees, except where they may be managers or supervisors of the
business. All persons making outcall meetings under this subchapter, including
escorts, models, guards, escort runners, drivers, chauffeurs, and other similar
employees, shall be considered SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The human male or female pubic area or anus with
less than a full opaque covering, or the human female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola, with less than full opaque covering.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Acts of:
         (a)   Masturbation;
         (b)   Human sexual intercourse;
         (c)   Sexual copulation between a person and a beast;
         (d)   Fellatio;
         (e)   Cunnilingus;
         (f)   Bestiality;
         (g)   Pederasty;
         (h)   Buggery; or
         (i)   Any anal copulation between a human male and another human male,
human female, or beast.
      (2)   Manipulating, caressing, or fondling by any person of:
         (a)   The genitals of a human;
         (b)   The pubic area of a human; and/or
         (c)   The breast or breasts of a human female.
      (3)   Flagellation or torture by, or upon, a person clad in
undergarments, a mask, or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered,
bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of the one so clothed.
(Prior Code, § 36.10) (Ord. 25-98, passed 10-7-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Sexually-oriented businesses, business regulations definitions, see §
112.04
STANDARDS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS
§ 157.555 CODES AND STANDARDS.
   Any dwelling or other structure which is designed or intended for human
habitation, which is to be located in the city outside of a mobile home park,
mobile home subdivision, or manufactured home subdivision, or PRUD, must meet
the standards of the Uniform Building Code and other codes as adopted by the
city, or if it is a manufactured home, it must meet the standards of, and be
certified under, the National Manufactured Housing and Standards Act of 1974,
being 42 U.S.C. Chapter 70, §§ 5401 et seq., and must prominently display an
insignia approved by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development, and must not have been altered in violation of such codes.
(Prior Code, § 38.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 13-92, passed 5-6-1992)
§ 157.556 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the above codes and standards, the following requirements
shall also be met.
   (A)   (1)   The dwelling must be permanently connected and attached to a
site-built permanent foundation which meets ICBO guidelines for manufactured
housing installations, if a manufactured home.
      (2)   Any enclosure must be secured to the perimeter of the dwelling and
constructed of materials that are weather-resistant and aesthetically
consistent with concrete and masonry foundation materials.
   (B)   The dwelling must be permanently connected to, and approved for, all
required utilities.
   (C)   (1)   The dwelling must be taxed as real property.
      (2)   If the dwelling is a manufactured home, an affidavit must be filed
with the State Tax Commission pursuant to UCA § 70D-2-401, and qualified
therefor an improvement to real estate.
   (D)   (1)   The dwelling must provide a minimum of 72 square feet of
enclosed storage with a minimum height of six feet located in basement or
garage areas, or in an accessory storage structure.
      (2)   Such structure shall conform to all applicable building codes.
   (E)   Porches and landings for ingress and egress to the dwelling must be
built in accordance with Chapter 33 of the Uniform Building Code as adopted by
the state.
   (F)   At least 60% of the roof must be pitched at least 2:12 pitch and shall
have a roof surface of wood shakes, asphalt, composition, wood shingles,
concrete, metal tiles, slate, built-up gravel materials, or other materials
approved by the Uniform Building Code.
   (G)   (1)   The dwelling shall have exterior siding consisting of wood,
masonry, concrete, stucco, masonite, or metal or vinyl lap.
      (2)   The roof overhang, including rain gutters, shall not be less than
one foot, measured from the vertical side of the building, but not including
bay windows, nooks, morning rooms, and the like.
   (H)   (1)   The width of the dwelling shall be at least 20 feet at the
narrowest point of its first story for a depth of at least 20 feet, exclusive
of any garage area.
      (2)   The width shall be considered the lessor of two primary dimensions.
If the width of the dwelling faces a street and is less than one-half of the
length, the required off-street parking shall be in a two-car garage attached
to the length of the dwelling.
   (I)   Required off-street parking spaces shall be side by side (see §
157.631).
   (J)   (1)   The City Building Inspector, as the Zoning Enforcement Officer,
in concert with the City Planning Commission, may approve deviations from one
or more of the development or architectural standards provided herein on the
basis of a finding that the architectural style proposed provides compensating
design features, and that the proposed dwelling will be compatible and
harmonious with existing structures in the vicinity.
      (2)   Together, they may also require other deviations to achieve the
overall goals and purposes of this subchapter.
      (3)   These requirements may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 38.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 13-92, passed 5-6-1992)
CLUSTER SUBDIVISION SPECIAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.570 INTENT; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Cluster subdivisions are intended to allow flexibility in neighborhood
and subdivision lot design by permitting the development of homes on lots
smaller than normally required for the zone in which the subdivision is
located, and by dedicating or reserving the land so saved to needed open space.
   (B)   It is not intended that this type of subdivision be universally
applied, but only where circumstances of natural features and land use make it
appropriate, and of special benefit to the residents of the subdivision and
surrounding area.
   (C)   Definitions. The below items, as contained in this section, shall have
the following meaning(s):
      GROSS PROJECT SIZE. The total acreage of the property under consideration
for development, inclusive of all open space, parking areas, and rights-of-way
(public and private).
      OPEN SPACE. Land reserved from development that shall be used for
resting, recharging and play. It is set aside for recreation uses, landscaping,
open green areas, and the enjoyment of the residents.
(Prior Code, § 40.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 17-92, passed 10-7-1992;
Ord. 26-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.571 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)    A cluster subdivision may be permitted in the A-1, A-2, R-1, R-2, and
R-2.5 Zones.
   (B)   Where land is proposed for subdivision into lots and a subdivider
dedicates, or permanently reserves, land within the subdivision for
recreational use or open space, a reduction in the minimum lot area required
for the zone in which the cluster subdivision is located may be approved by the
City Council upon recommendation of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   All permitted and conditional uses of the base zone shall still be
permitted.
   (D)   A master development agreement shall be adopted to include lot area,
width, setbacks, and any other necessary information for the subdivision.
   (E)   Provided, the provisions of this subchapter are met, and further
provided that the cluster subdivision receives subdivision approval.
(Prior Code, § 40.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 17-92, passed 10-7-1992;
Ord. 26-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.572 LOT AREA REGULATIONS.
    The minimum lot area for dwellings may be reduced below the area normally
required in the zone in which the cluster subdivision is located as follows:
   (A)   No lot may have an area less than 60% of the required lot area; and
   (B)   The density of the base zone shall still apply for the cluster
subdivision unless combined with the planned residential unit development code.
(Prior Code, § 40.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 17-92, passed 10-7-1992;
Ord. 26-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.573 WIDTH, YARD, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Yard use and height regulations shall be the same as for the zone in
which the cluster subdivision is located. The minimum lot width may be reduced
below the width normally required in the zone in which the cluster subdivision
is located as follows: For all allowable zones, there may be up to a 30%
reduction.
   (B)   All driveways shall be 25 feet from the front property line to the
garage.
   (C)   All parking must comply with the parking requirements outlined in §§
157.631 through
157.640.
   (D)   Any additional guest parking must be evenly distributed throughout the
development.
(Prior Code, § 40.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 17-92, passed 10-7-1992;
Ord. 26-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.574 OPEN SPACE SUBSTITUTION.
   (A)   There shall be a minimum of 20% of permanently reserved open space
within the subdivision.
   (B)   Open space areas shall not include areas that are occupied by
buildings, lots, structures, parking areas or streets. Additionally, required
open space shall not include:
      (1)   Area between buildings;
      (2)   Front, rear, and side yard setbacks or any area within a
residential lot; and
      (3)   Paved areas such as driveways and private sidewalks.
   (C)   The open space may include walking pathways, park benches, playground
equipment, sport courts, picnic areas, covered pavilions, gardens, and shade
trees. Any proposed building within the open space shall not be used as a
residence.
(Prior Code, § 40.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 17-92, passed 10-7-1992;
Ord. 26-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.575 OPEN SPACE PRESERVATION.
   (A)    Recreation and/or open space areas to be permanently reserved shall
be improved, landscaped, and maintained in accordance with a plan approved by
the Planning Commission and City Council. The landscaping plan must comply with
§§
157.985 through
157.999.
   (B)   To ensure that the recreation and/or open space parcels are
permanently reserved and maintained, the city may require either:
      (1)   Appropriate covenants and agreements restricting the land
perpetually as open space for common use and for permanent maintenance of such
areas by a homeowners’ association.
      (2)   Any open space that is being considered to be deeded to the city
shall have an open space easement, shall meet all requirements that the Parks
and Recreation Department sets, and be approved by City Council. One of the
requirements shall be a contiguous area of seven acres of area to be used as
open space excluding any additional parking area for the open space.
(Prior Code, § 40.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 17-92, passed 10-7-1992;
Ord. 26-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.576 PROCEDURE.
    A concept plan of the entire cluster subdivision showing the areas within
the subdivision to be permanently reserved for recreation and/or open space,
plans showing the proposed use, improvements, and method of maintenance of such
areas, shall be approved by the Planning Commission and City Council before the
cluster subdivision proposal becomes a permitted use in the zone in which it is
proposed. Once the concept plan is approved, the applicant may follow the
subdivision approval process and prepare a master development agreement.
(Prior Code, § 40.14) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 17-92, passed 10-7-1992;
Ord. 26-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 157.577 MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (MDA) REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Subdivision ordinance requirements shall apply to all cluster
subdivisions. The developer shall submit a residential development plan of all
project phases for city consideration and approval and shall integrate the
proposed development plan into a development agreement between the developer
and city. The development agreement shall undergo an administrative review
process to ensure compliance with city ordinances and standards with final
approval by the City Council. The property shall be developed in accordance
with the development agreement, and current city ordinances, including the
development requirements as identified within this chapter.
   (B)   The MDA for review shall include, but is not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   A legal description of the land subject to the agreement and the
names of the legal and equitable owners;
      (2)   A general description of the development, the development uses
permitted on the land including proposed densities, and building uses and
height, and a description of the impacts and benefits of the development;
      (3)   A description of the public facilities that will service the
development, including those that are to be dedicated, constructed or financed
by the developer;
      (4)   The date construction of such new facilities will be completed and
operation of such facilities will begin;
      (5)   Descriptions of all proposed phases;
      (6)   A schedule to assure public facilities are available concurrent
with impacts of the development;
      (7)   A description of any reservations or dedications of land for public
purpose;
      (8)   A description of all local development permits approved or needed
to be approved for the development of the land;
      (9)   A provision that all public facilities to be provided by the
applicant will be constructed or surety prior to the issuance of a building
permit for all or any portion of the proposed development; and
      (10)   Such other provisions as are determined by the city to be
necessary for the public health, safety, or welfare. The development agreement
is subject to the approval of City Council as part of the approval process. The
applicant shall record the development agreement in the Weber County Recorder's
Office.
(Ord. 26-2024, passed 9-18-2024)
SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
§ 157.590 EFFECT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The regulations hereinafter set forth in this subchapter qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the zone regulations appearing elsewhere in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 42.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.591 PUBLIC/PRIVATE ROAD STANDARDS.
   The public/private road standards are outlined in the Public Works
Standards, which are adopted here by reference.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/218f49f72ffab1adb43b7ec936a32d15f00598f9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2088.jpg]
(Prior Code, § 42.03) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 09-2021, passed 3-3-
2021; Ord. 04-2024, passed 2-7-2024)
§ 157.592 LOTS IN SEPARATE OWNERSHIP.
   The requirements of this subchapter as to minimum lot area or lot width
shall not be construed to prevent the use for a single-family dwelling of any
lot or parcel of land in the event that such lot or parcel of land is held in
separate ownership at the time this subchapter becomes effective.
(Prior Code, § 42.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.593 YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY.
   No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which
is hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this subchapter, shall be considered as providing a yard or open
space for any other building, nor shall any yard or other required open space
on an adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot
whereon a building is to be erected or established.
(Prior Code, § 42.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.594 EVERY DWELLING TO BE ON A LOT.
   Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a LOT, as defined in §
157.004; such lot shall have the required frontage on a public or approved
private street or on a right-of-way which has been approved by the Board of
Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 42.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.595 SEPARATELY-OWNED LOTS; REDUCED YARDS.
   On any lot under a separate ownership from adjacent lots and on record at
the time of passage of this subchapter, and such lot having a smaller width
than required for the zone in which it is located, the width of each of the
side yards for a dwelling may be reduced to a width which is not less than the
same percentage of the width of the lot as the required side yard would be of
the required lot width; provided that on interior lots, the smaller of the two
yards shall be in no case less than five feet, or the larger less than eight
feet; and for corner lots, the side yard on the side street shall be in no case
less than ten feet, or the other side yard be less than five feet.
(Prior Code, § 42.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.596 SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE.
   No space is needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking, or
other requirements of this subchapter before a lot or building may be sold or
leased away from such lot or building.
(Prior Code, § 42.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.597 CREATION OF LOTS BELOW MINIMUM SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   No parcel of land which has less than the minimum width and area
requirements for the zone in which it is located may be created by dividing a
larger parcel of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building
or development as a lot, except by permit of the Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 42.14) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 08-2007, passed 8-15-
2007)
§ 157.598 PROVIDING FOR DISCRETIONARY DENSITY BONUSES.
   (A)   When a developer/owner donates real property, money, time, and/or
materials to the city at the request of the city, as a part of a proposed
development, the city may, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, give
discretionary density bonuses for these donations.
   (B)   Bonus density can only be considered by the following:
      (1)   Must be conducive to surrounding developments;
      (2)   Must benefit the city’s capital facilities plans in some manner
requested by the city; and
      (3)   Must be able to demonstrate a benefit to the future maintenance of
facilities.
   (C)   Negotiations to determine the value and type of the donation shall be
conducted by a Committee composed of the following members: the Mayor, one
Planning Commission member appointed by the Chairperson of the Planning
Commission, and one City Council member appointed by the Mayor. The
recommendation from the Committee shall then be submitted to the Planning
Commission for their recommendation to, and approval by, the City Council.
   (D)   Nothing in the foregoing shall, in any manner, limit the city’s right
to require an escrow payment, in a form acceptable to the city, as part of the
agreement to guarantee completion of the donation and any required improvements
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 42.15) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 08-2007, passed 8-15-
2007)
§ 157.599 YARDS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; PROJECTIONS PERMITTED INTO REQUIRED YARDS.
   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed except
for accessory buildings in a rear yard, and excepting the following permitted
projections.
   (A)   Belt courses, sills, and lintels may project 18 inches into required
front, rear, and side yards.
   (B)   Cornices, eaves, and gutters may project three feet into a required
front yard, five feet into a required rear yard, and two feet into a side yard.
   (C)   Outside stairways, fire escapes, flues, chimneys, and fireplace
structures not wider than eight feet, measured along the wall of a building,
may project not more than five feet into a required front yard, ten feet into a
required rear yard, and three feet into a required side yard.
   (D)   Unwalled porches, terraces, and balconies may extend five feet into
required front and rear yards.
   (E)   Building accessories and sunbreaks designed, and intended, to control
light entering a building and being a permanent part of such building may
project five feet into a required front yard, ten feet into a required rear
yard, and three feet into a required side yard.
   (F)   Service station canopies may extend into the required front yard of a
service station site to cover pump islands and the adjacent vehicle service
areas; provided, such canopies are located not closer than five feet to the
front property line.
(Prior Code, § 42.16) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.600 WALL, FENCE, OR HEDGE MAY BE MAINTAINED.
   (A)   In a R Zone, a wall, fence, or hedge not exceeding 42 inches in height
may be located, and maintained, on any part of a lot except on corner lots. On
an interior lot, a wall, fence or hedge not more than six feet in height may be
located anywhere on the lot to the rear of the rear line of the required front
yard. On corner lots and reversed corner lots, a six-foot fence may be located
anywhere on the lot except in those areas comprising the required front yard or
the required side yard on the street side of such lots where the fence shall
not exceed 42 inches in height.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the requirements of division (A) above, residential
subdivisions and projects may be encompassed in whole or in part by a perimeter
fence of not more than six feet in height subject to conditional use review;
and provided that access to lots is allowed only from approved interior public
or private streets that are a part of the approved subdivision or project, and
a permanent means of landscaping and maintaining the parking strip between the
fence and the street curb is provided.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to fences required by
state law to surround and enclose public utility subdivisions and public
schools.
   (D)   Where a retaining wall protects a cut below the natural grade, and is
located in the line separating lots, such retaining wall may be topped by a
fence, wall, or hedge of the same height that would otherwise be permitted at
the location if no retaining wall existed. Where a retaining wall contains a
fill, the height of the retaining wall built to retain the fill shall be
considered as contributing to the permissible height of a fence, solid wall, or
hedge; provided that in any event, a protective fence or wall not more than 42
inches in height may be erected at the tip of the retaining wall.
(Prior Code, § 42.18) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.601 AREA OF ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   An accessory structure is anything that is constructed or erected
which requires location on the ground or attached to something having a
location on the ground that is located on the same lot as a main building. No
accessory structure, nor group of accessory structures, in any residential zone
shall cover more than 25% of the rear yard or side yard. If accessory
structures are being placed on the rear yard and side yard, then the percentage
of allowable area cover is 40% of the combined area.
   (B)   Pools and sport courts are exempt from the area cover requirement and
are limited to only being placed in the rear yard. Pools and sport courts are
required to have a barrier surrounding it that is at least 48 inches in height
and at least three feet from the edge of the pool or sport court.
(Prior Code, § 42.20) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-24, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 157.602 ADDITIONAL HEIGHT ALLOWED.
   Public and semi-public utility buildings, when authorized in a zone, may be
erected to a height not exceeding 75 feet if the building is set back from each
otherwise-established building line at least one foot for each additional foot
of building height above the normal height limit required for the zone in which
the building is erected.
(Prior Code, § 42.22) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.603 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   Penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks,
ventilating fans, or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the
building, and fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles,
chimneys, smokestacks, water tanks, wireless or television masts, theater
lofts, silos, or similar structures, may be erected above the height limits
herein prescribed, but no space above the height limit shall be allowed for the
purpose of providing additional floorspace, and no heights are permitted above
the maximum allowed under airport height regulations.
(Prior Code, § 42.24) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.604 MINIMUM HEIGHT OF MAIN BUILDINGS.
   No dwelling shall be erected to a height less than one story above the
grade.
(Prior Code, § 42.26) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.605 ADDITIONAL ACCESSORY STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Accessory structures are a permitted use in all agricultural and
residential zones, subject to the following height and setback limitations. An
accessory structure is defined as a constructed or erected which requires
location on the ground or attached to something having location on the ground
located upon the same lot occupied by the main building. If there is a greater
than five feet public utility easement in place, then letters from all utility
companies are required upon submittal of a land use permit or building permit
along with a request by the landowner to vacate a portion of the easement to
accommodate a five feet setback. Otherwise, all other easements shall be
complied with, meaning that no accessory structures shall encroach on those
easements.
 
Lot size      0-8,000 sq. 8,000-12,500 12,501-20,00 20,001-30,00 30,001+sq. ft.
              ft.         sq. ft.      0 sq. ft.    0 sq. ft.
Max. height   15 ft.      20 ft.       25 ft.       30 ft.       35 ft.
              Accessory structures may observe the front setback of the
              property's zone unless they are being proposed on a comer lot. If
              an accessory structure is going to be built within the front
Front setback plane, the structure must be compatible with the main dwelling
              ( colors, materials, roof pitch). A greenhouse is the only
              exception to this requirement. No accessory structure may sit
              directly in front of the main dwelling.
Side setback  5 ft.       5 ft.        5 ft.        5 ft.        5 ft.
Rear setback  5 ft.       5 ft.        5 ft.        5 ft.        5 ft.
 
   (B)   Regardless of the above setbacks, accessory structures located in the
portion of the lot adjacent to the street shall be five feet from the property
line if there is no access to street and ten feet if there is access to the
street. Accessory structures are only permitted five feet behind the front
plane of the house for corner lots.
   (C)   All accessory structures must keep the roofline within the property
where it is built and must not overhang onto a neighboring property. The
structure must be designed to drain onto the building lot and must not pour
over to the neighboring property.
(Prior Code, § 42.28) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 18-2022, passed 9-7-
2022; Ord. 15-24, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 157.606 CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS.
   In all zones which require a front yard, there shall be nothing to obstruct
the view or create a hazard, with no reference to a restriction and the height
of a fence or other object.
(Prior Code, § 42.30) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 12-95, passed 10-18-
1995)
§ 157.607 ANIMALS AND FOWLS.
   No animals or fowl shall be kept or maintained closer than 75 feet from any
dwelling and adjacent lot. Any barn, stable, coop, pen, corral, or enclosure
for the housing or keeping of animals or fowl shall be kept, constructed, or
maintained not less than 100 feet from a public street and not less than 25
feet from any lot line. The keeping or maintaining of animals and fowl shall be
permitted only in conjunction with the residential use of the lot for any lot
less than 20,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 42.32) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.608 WATER AND SEWAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In all cases where a proposed building or proposed use will involve
the use of sewage facilities and a public sewer is not available, and in all
cases where a proposed supply of piped culinary water under pressure is not
available, the sewage disposal and the domestic culinary water supply shall
comply with requirements of the County Board of Health and/or the State Board
of Health, and the application for a building or use permit shall be
accompanied by a certificate of approval from said Board of Health.
   (B)   Building permits shall not be issued by the Building Inspector or City
Official unless private water supply and private sewage disposal is approved in
accordance with the above requirements.
   (C)   Where a public sewer is not available, each dwelling unit, or other
permitted or conditional use requiring sanitary facilities, shall occupy a land
area of not less than 20,000 square feet, except as otherwise allowed or
required by the County Board of Health and or the State Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 42.34) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.609 EFFECT OF OFFICIAL MAP.
   Wherever a front yard is required for a lot facing on a street for which an
official map has been recorded in the Office of the City Recorder, the depth of
such front yard shall be measured from the mapped street line provided by the
official map. Permits for structures within the lines of a mapped street, as
may be adopted as part of any official map, shall be assured only in accordance
with ordinances of the city pertaining to the official map.
(Prior Code, § 42.36) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.610 SIGNS AND LIGHTING.
   (A)   Location of signs. No part of any ground sign shall be permitted to
extend across any property line or into any required front of side yard, except
as herein specifically provided. Name plates, identification signs, service
signs, and business signs may be located in a required front yard; provided
such signs are located not closer than ten feet to such property line, except
as herein specifically provided.
   (B)   Projection of signs. In any zone which requires a building setback
from a property line, no sign shall project across such property line, or be
attached to a building or other structure, in such a way as to project closer
than ten feet to such property line, except as herein specifically provided.
Projecting signs shall be not less than ten feet above the ground or sidewalk.
No sign shall project nearer the curb line than two feet.
   (C)   Lights and lighted signs. No spotlight, floodlight, luminous tubes, or
lighted sign shall be installed in any way which will permit the direct rays of
such light to penetrate into any Residential Zone or onto any property used for
residential purposes.
   (D)   Signs not to constitute traffic hazard. No light, sign, or other
advertising structure, as regulated by this subchapter, shall be erected at the
intersection of any street in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear
vision; or at any location where, by reason of the position, shape, or color,
it may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal, or device; or which makes use of the words, “STOP,”
“LOOK,” “DANGER,” or any other word, phrase, symbol, or character in such a
“LOOK” or “DANGER” manner as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic.
   (E)   Height of sign.
      (1)   General. No sign shall be erected higher than the height of the
main building to which it is attached. No ground sign shall be permitted with a
maximum height above the street level immediately adjoining said sign, or more
than 25 feet in a C-1 Zone and 50 feet in a C-2, M-1, and M-2 Zone.
      (2)   Exception allowed as a conditional use. A freeway-oriented, ground,
on-premises business sign located within 660 feet of the centerline of an
interstate freeway may have a maximum height of 65 feet; provided, further,
that the height of a freeway-oriented, ground, on-premises business sign
located within 1,500 feet from the center point of a freeway interchange,
either along the freeway or fronting the approach highway, may be measured from
the highest road level of the interchange.
   (F)   Signs on public property. No ground sign shall be erected on, nor
project over, publicly-owned land, inside street right-of-way, or otherwise,
except signs owned and erected by, or for, a public agency for the direction
and/or safety of the public.
   (G)   Compliance. No sign erected before the adoption of this subchapter
shall be moved to a new location on the lot or building, or enlarged or
replaced, unless it complies with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (H)   Permits. No sign shall be erected, relocated, or enlarged until the
plan for such sign has been approved and a permit issued by the Building
Inspector in accordance with §§
157.690 through
157.692, except that nameplates, property signs, service signs, and temporary
signs conforming to the provisions of this subchapter may be erected without
such approval or permit.
(Prior Code, § 42.38) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.611 LOTS AND DWELLINGS ON PRIVATE RIGHTS-OF-WAY; SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   Except where the requirements of this section are reduced by permit of the
Board of Adjustment, the minimum area for any lot fronting on a private right-
of-way shall be one-half acre, and the minimum setback of the dwelling from the
center of the right-of-way shall be 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 42.40) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.612 REQUIRED BUILDING SETBACK FROM DESIGNATED COLLECTOR OR ARTERIAL
STREET.
   Where a street is designated on the master street plan of the city as a
collector or arterial (major) street, and where the existing street right-of-
way requires widening to meet the right-of-way standards of such collector or
arterial (major) street, the minimum front and side yard setbacks for all
buildings shall be based upon the future designated right-of-way width as shown
on the City Master Plan and shall be measured from the future lot line of the
collector or arterial (major) street designated right-of-way instead of the
existing lot line of the present street right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 42.42) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.613 GROUP DWELLING SPECIAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Yard regulations. Group dwellings shall be considered as one building
for the purpose of front, side, and rear yard requirements, the entire group as
a unit requiring one front, one rear, and two side yards as specified for
dwelling structures. The minimum distance between structures shall be ten feet
for single-story buildings, 15 feet for two-story buildings, and 20 feet for
three, or more, story buildings.
   (B)   Group dwelling PRUD. A group dwelling complex must be developed as a
PRUD if the area of the complex is equal to, or exceeds, the minimum number of
units or area required for a PRUD for the zone in which the complex is located.
(Prior Code, § 42.44) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.614 ZERO-SIDE YARDS.
   One zero-side yard may be permitted when approved by the Planning Commission
and City Council, and only if the following requirements are met:
   (A)   The remaining one-side yard is equal to the combined total of the
required two-side yards of the zone in which it is located;
   (B)   No window or other similar opening shall be installed in the building
or any accessory building along the side having a zero-side yard;
   (C)   No zero-side yard will be permitted on the lot side bordering on a
non-residential zone, or on a residential lot not utilizing zero-side yard
provisions; and
   (D)   Use of the zero-side yard is contingent upon development of, or
commitment to development of, a zero-side yard on adjacent lot.
(Prior Code, § 42.46) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.615 DISH ANTENNAS.
   Dish antennas shall comply with the following regulations.
   (A)   All freestanding dish antennas shall have setbacks from property lines
of at least five feet.
   (B)   In all zones, except in Commercial and Manufacturing Zones, dish
antennas shall not be located within the minimum front yard setback of any lot,
nor within the minimum side yard setback facing a street on a corner lot, nor,
if to exceed one meter in diameter, on the roof of a residential structure,
except that dish antennas may be approved in such locations by the Board of
Adjustment upon a finding that a usable satellite signal cannot be obtained in
an otherwise-approved location.
   (C)   A dish antenna, if to exceed the height limitation of the zone in
which it is to be located, as permitted by §
157.603, or if more than 13 feet in diameter, shall be considered a conditional
use.
   (D)   Not more than one dish antenna of six feet or more in diameter is
allowed per residential lot.
(Prior Code, § 42.48) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.616 TOWERS.
   (A)   Building permits are required for towers, including wind energy
conservation systems (WECS) towers, and shall comply with the following
regulations.
      (1)   A TOWER is a tall, rigid structure whose height is significantly
greater than its base perimeter and the height of surrounding structures. It
does not include single pole CB, amateur radio or land mobile radio antennas,
or towers for the same if less than 75 feet in height.
      (2)   All wind energy conversion systems (WECS) towers shall have
setbacks from property lines equal to, or greater than, the height of the
proposed structure. The height measurement shall include the vertical propeller
blade.
      (3)   No commercial tower installation shall exceed a height equal to the
distance from the base of the structure to the nearest overhead power line
which serves more than one dwelling, or place of business, less five feet.
      (4)   A tower, if to exceed the height limitation of the zone in which it
is to be located as permitted by §
157.603, shall be considered a conditional use.
      (5)   In all zones, except in Commercial and Manufacturing Zones, towers
shall not be located within the minimum front yard setback of any lot, nor
within the minimum side yard setback facing a street on a corner lot, nor on
the roof of a residential structure.
      (6)   Application for a permit shall include construction drawings
showing method of installation and a site plan depicting structures on the
property and on any affected adjacent property.
   (B)   For towers of 75 feet or greater in height, the application shall
include the manufacturer’s construction specifications for city approval,
except that for large commercial towers of 90 feet or greater in height, the
application shall include a structural engineering certification by a
registered structural engineer from the state.
(Prior Code, § 42.50) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.617 FLAG LOTS.
   Lots not having frontage on a street as required by this subchapter, but
having access to such a street by means of rights-of-way or fee title access
strips, may be approved as “special exceptions” by the Planning Commission in
any zone; provided that:
   (A)   The Planning Commission determines that it is not feasible or
desirable to extend a street to serve such lot or lots at that time;
   (B)   The right-of-way or access strip shall have a minimum width of 20
feet, a maximum width of 30 feet and a maximum grade of 15%;
   (C)   The area of the right-of-way or access strip shall not be included
within the minimum lot area requirement;
   (D)   The lot shall meet all minimum yard and area requirements of the zone
in which it is located, exclusive of the right-of-way or access strip;
   (E)   The depth of the front yard shall be the distance between the front
line of the building and the property line or nearest line of the right-of-way
or access strip which the building faces;
   (F)   The lot address shall be displayed in a prominently-visible location
at the street entrance to the right-of-way or access strip;
   (G)   Each lot shall access a street by means of its own right-of-way or
access strip. Successive stacking of lots on the same right-of-way or access
strip is not permitted;
   (H)   No building, structure, or parking is allowed in the right-of-way or
access strip which is to be used solely as access to the lot;
   (I)   The Planning Commission shall impose such other conditions to ensure
safety, accessibility, privacy, and the like to maintain or improve the general
welfare of the immediate area;
   (J)   No ROW or access strip shall exceed 500 feet in length;
   (K)   A maximum of two flag lot ROWs or access strips may be adjacent to
each other;
   (L)   A turnout area shall be provided at the home location to allow
firefighting equipment to turn around. This area must be a year-round surface
capable of supporting fire equipment (a minimum 40-foot radius if circular);
   (M)   Bridges, including decking and culverts, must be capable of supporting
a minimum 20 ton weight capacity;
   (N)   Road surfaces on private rights-of-way or private access ways shall be
capable of supporting a 20 ton weight capacity with a surface approved by the
City Engineer;
   (O)   A maximum distance of 500 feet access strip shall be permitted without
a fire hydrant or other fire suppression method approved by the Fire District;
   (P)   The home location shall be shown on a plan submitted to the Fire
District;
   (Q)   No flag lot shall be allowed which proposes to resubdivide or include
within it (including the right-of-way or access strip) any portion of an
existing lot in a recorded subdivision;
   (R)   The flag lot must meet the minimum lot width requirements for the zone
in which the lot is located at the end of the access strip; and
   (S)   In calculating the minimum lot width of the flag lot to meet the
requirements for the zone in which the lot is located at the end of the access
strip, the ROW or access strip minimum width of 20 feet shall be included in
the minimum (150 foot) frontage requirement of the host or front lot.
(Prior Code, § 42.56) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 4-93, passed 8-4-1993;
Ord. 21-98, passed 8-5-1998; Ord. 08-2001, passed 8-1-2001)
§ 157.618 MAILBOX REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any mailbox and supporting structure, where adjacent to a high-back
curb, shall have the front face of the mailbox and supporting structure at the
same plane as the back of the curb.
   (B)   Any mailbox and supporting structure, where adjacent to a rolled curb
and gutter, shall have the front face of the mailbox set back one foot from the
vertical plane of the back of the rolled curb.
   (C)   Any mailbox and supporting structure which is located where there is
no curbing, shall be set back from the edge of the asphalt such that the
vertical plane of the front surface of the mailbox is a minimum of two feet
back from the edge of the asphalt.
   (D)   (1)   No mailbox-supporting structure shall be larger than 24 inches
by 24 inches, nor may the maximum height of such a structure exceed 56 inches.
      (2)   The base platform for a mailbox structure shall not be larger than
32 inches by 32 inches and the platform thickness of such a structure shall not
be less than three and one-half inches thick.
   (E)   The top of the platform or base supporting the mailbox structure shall
have a surface which is plumb with, and which matches in elevation and plane,
the top surface of the adjacent curbing or, in the case of an installation
where there is no curb, the surface shall match the top surface of the asphalt
in elevation and plane.
   (F)   Any request to deviate from the stated mailbox structure requirements
must be reviewed and approved by the City Planning Commission and City Council,
and shall be approved as a conditional use only.
   (G)   All mailbox structures shall also meet the requirements of §
157.606.
(Prior Code, § 42.58) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 2-98, passed 3-4-1998)
PARKING AND LOADING SPACE, VEHICLE TRAFFIC, AND DRIVE-THROUGH REGULATIONS
§ 157.630 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter regulates parking and loading spaces, vehicle traffic,
and access to provide orderly and adequate development of these needed
amenities, and in so doing, promote the safety and well-being of the citizens
of the city.
   (B)   Subsequently, there shall be provided at the time of the erection of
any main building, or at the time any main building is enlarged or increased,
minimum off-street parking spaces with adequate provisions for ingress and
egress by standard-sized automobiles.
   (C)   (1)   Additionally, it is the purpose of §
157.632 to regulate for drive-through facilities by setting development
standards to ensure that design and operations mitigate possible negative
impacts. Of special concern are noise from idling cars and voice amplification
equipment, lighting, and queued traffic interfering with on- and off-site
traffic and pedestrian flow.
      (2)   The regulations of §
157.632 apply to any drive-through facilities, regardless of whether the drive
through is accessory to a primary use, any rebuild or replacement of an
existing structure containing a drive-through facility or modification to an
existing building that includes altering the location of an existing drive-
through window.
   (D)   Conformance with the requirements of this section does not alleviate
an applicant of the duty to comply with any non-conflicting requirements of
this chapter.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, GROSS FLOOR AREA (GFA) defined as the
total square footage inside the building envelope, including external walls and
excluding the roof. For buildings with multiple floors, GFA used to calculate
parking requirements shall be the sum of GFA for each individual floor.
(Prior Code, § 44.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 07-2023, passed 4-5-
2023)
§ 157.631 PARKING SPACE FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, INSTITUTIONAL,
RECREATIONAL AND OTHER LAND USES.
Land Use Required Parking
Land Use                                               Required Parking
Residential (see notes to table)
   Dwelling, single-family detached                 2 spaces
   Dwelling, two- to four-family                    2 spaces per dwelling unit
                                                       Single car garage: 1 space
                                                       per dwelling unit, plus 1
                                                       guest parking space per 4
   Dwelling, single-family attached (townhome, twin dwelling units
home)                                                  2+ car garage: 2 spaces
                                                       per dwelling unit, plus 1
                                                       guest parking space per 4
                                                       dwelling units
                                                       1 space per studio/1-
                                                       bedroom apartment
                                                       2 spaces per 2+ bedroom
   Dwelling, multi-family apartment                 apartment
                                                       Guest parking: 10% of
                                                       total apartments in the
                                                       project
Commercial
                                                       1 space per service bay,
   Auto repair shop                                 plus 1 space per 250
                                                       square feet GFA
                                                       5 spaces, plus 1 space per
   Automobile sales, new/used                       2,000 square feet GFA.
                                                       This is exclusive of on-
                                                       site inventory parking
                                                       1 space per employee at
   Bus facility, intermodal transit hub             highest shift, plus 1
                                                       space per bus
                                                       5 stacking spaces per bay
   Car wash                                         or lane, plus 1 space per
                                                       service stall
                                                       5 stacking spaces per
   Drive-through facility                           lane, in addition to the
                                                       parking required for the
                                                       specific land use
   Dry cleaner, laundry facility                    1 space per 250 square
                                                       feet GFA
                                                       3 spaces per l ,000 square
   Financial services                               feet GFA, plus required
                                                       stacking
   Flex space (no set end user)                     30 spaces, plus 1 space
                                                       per 250 square feet GFA
   Food production                                  2 space per 1,000 square
                                                       feet GFA
   Hotel/motel/B&B                                  1 per room
   Laboratory                                       1 space per 1,000 square
                                                       feet GFA
   Manufacturing                                    2 spaces per 1,000 square
                                                       feet GFA
   Medical/dental office or clinic                  1 space per 250 square
                                                       feet GFA
   Office, general                                  1 space per 250 square
                                                       feet GFA
   Repair shop, general                             3 spaces per 1,000 square
                                                       feet GFA
                                                       1 space per 100 square
   Restaurant, tavern, bar, lounge, café           feet GFA, plus required
                                                       stacking
   Retail goods and/or services                     1 space per 250 square
                                                       feet GFA
                                                       20 spaces, plus 1 space
                                                       per 2,000 square feet GFA.
   Warehouse                                        Office space parking shall
                                                       be calculated separately
                                                       based on office, general
                                                       standards
                                                       20 spaces, plus 1 space
                                                       per 2,000 square feet GFA.
   Wholesale distribution                           Office space parking shall
                                                       be calculated separately
                                                       based on office, general
                                                       standards
Institutional
                                                       1 space per 4 beds, plus 1
   Assisted living center/nursing home              per employee at highest
                                                       shift
   Auditorium/church/assembly hall                  1 space per 100 square
                                                       feet GFA
   Day care/preschool                               1 space per employee, plus
                                                       one space per 5 children
                                                       1 space per faculty member
                                                       and full-time employee,
   Education, 10-12                                 plus 1 space per 3
                                                       students at maximum
                                                       enrollment
                                                       l space each per faculty
                                                       member and full-time
   Education, college, university, vocational       employee, plus l space per
                                                       3 students at maximum
                                                       enrollment
                                                       1 space each per faculty
                                                       and full-time employee,
   Education, K-9 (see notes to table)              plus one space per l0
                                                       students at maximum
                                                       enrollment
                                                       l0 spaces plus 1 space per
   Funeral/mortuary/crematorium                     4 fixed seats in the
                                                       parlor(s)
   Government services                              5 spaces, plus 2 spaces
                                                       per 1,000 square feet GFA
                                                       1.5 space per hospital
   Hospital                                         bed, plus 1 per employee
                                                       at highest shift
Recreation/Culture/Entertainment
   Art gallery, museum                              l space per 1,000 square
                                                       feet GFA
   Event venue, private                             10 spaces, plus 1 space
                                                       per 50 square feet GFA
   Gym/fitness/recreation center, indoor            3 spaces per 1,000 square
                                                       GFA
                                                       8 spaces per field, seat,
   Gym/fitness/recreation center, outdoor           lane, and the like, plus 3
                                                       spaces per 1,000 square
                                                       feet GFA
   Theater, movie or live                           1 space per 4 fixed seats
Notes to table:
   - All residential parking requirements are independent of any garage parking
which may be provided.
   - Single-family residences which do not provide a garage are required to
provide an additional two off-street spaces per unit.
   - A minimum of 50% of the parking spaces provided for multi-family residential
projects shall be covered.
   - Day cares, preschools and K-9 schools are also subject to design
requirements for how the pickup/drop off is handled. See §
157.633 for such requirements.
   - For other uses not listed above, the parking requirements shall be
established by the Planning Commission based upon a reasonable number of spaces
for staff and customers, and similar requirements of like businesses.
   - The city reserves the right to increase the required amount of off-street
parking for residential uses if, in the opinion of Engineering and Community
Development staff, the ownership and design of the right-of-way serving the
development is insufficient to support on-street parking.
   - Where computation of parking requirements results in a fraction, the
required parking spaces shall be rounded to the next highest number.
 
(Prior Code, § 44.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 13-2020, passed 5-6-
2020; Ord. 07-2023, passed 4-5-2023)
§ 157.632 DRIVE-THROUGH DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Traffic circulation standards.
      (1)   Only one driveway providing vehicular access to and from the drive-
through window or service area shall be provided from any street;
      (2)   The driveway providing access to the service windows shall be at
least 50 feet from the back of the curb of an intersecting street measured to
the centerline of the proposed driveway;
      (3)   The driveway providing access to the service windows shall be at
least 25 feet from any driveway providing access to the site from a public
street or from a driveway on an adjacent property;
      (4)   The driveway providing access and service windows shall be located
away from adjacent residential uses;
      (5)   Internal traffic circulation patterns on the lot shall be adequate
to keep traffic from backing into a street or blocking access to any required
parking spaces located on the lot; and
      (6)   A traffic study addressing both on-site and off-site traffic and
circulation impacts may be required as part of a permit application for a
drive-through facility.
   (B)   Drive-through lane/aisle and stacking/queuing standards.
      (1)   Drive-through lanes shall be located away from the primary
pedestrian entrance and shall not block the ability for vehicles to pull in and
out of parking spaces;
      (2)   Aisle entrances and directional traffic flow shall be clearly
designated by signs and pavement markings;
      (3)   Landscaping or concrete curbing shall separate each drive-through
aisle from the property ingress/egress;
      (4)   (a)   Drive-through aisles shall not serve as sole access to any
parking space;
         (b)   If parking spaces are adjacent to a drive-through aisle, points
of ingress and egress shall be provided independent of the drive-through aisle.
      (5)   Drive-through aisles shall have a minimum ten foot interior radius
at curves and a minimum 12-foot width;
      (6)   A vehicle path analysis shall be performed by a licensed engineer
to show how vehicles of various types will maneuver the drive-through lane;
      (7)   A drive-through aisle that provides access to a service window
shall be designed as follows:
         (a)   Drive through food shall provide at least 40 feet between the
menu board and the first service window and 80 feet between the drive-through
lane entrance and the menu board;
         (b)   Drive-through, other shall provide at least 80 feet of stacking
space;
         (c)   Stacking capacity is not counted towards required parking; and
         (d)   Additional stacking may be required if the city finds, based on
accepted engineering principles, that the provided stacking is insufficient to
ensure safe and effective traffic and pedestrian circulation.
      (8)   Exceptions. The city may approve alternatives to the requirements
of this section if it determines, based on accepted engineering principles,
that the alternate design will be equally effective in ensuring on- and off-
site pedestrian and vehicular traffic safety and minimizing traffic impacts.
   (C)   Pedestrian access.
      (1)   Pedestrian access to building entrances shall be provided from
public streets and sidewalks; and
      (2)   (a)   Pedestrian walkways shall have clear visibility and shall be
delineated from the pavement.
         (b)   Where possible, walkways shall not intersect drive-through
aisle, stacking lanes or parking areas.
   (D)   Solid waste management/stormwater.
      (1)   No solid waste receptacle or stormwater structure may be located
where it would interfere with drive-through lane stacking or site circulation.
      (2)   Dumpsters shall have covers and suitably enclosed to contain any
spillover; and
      (3)   A litter cleanup plan/schedule shall be provided to the city as
part of the site's stormwater management program.
   (E)   Noise. All drive-through uses shall comply with the city nuisance
ordinance, specifically regarding noise.
   (F)   Buffer. An eight-foot high masonry wall or solid fence shall be
erected and maintained along a property line where a drive-through use adjoins
any residential zone.
(Prior Code, § 44.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 13-2020, passed 5-6-
2020; Ord. 07-2023, passed 4-5-2023)
§ 157.633 DROP-OFF AND PICK-UP LANES.
   Commercial, retail and institutional uses which choose to have a drop off/
pick-up lane as part of their site shall be subject to the following
provisions:
   (A)   The drop-off/pick-up lane shall be separated from the public road by a
landscape or concrete buffer that is no less than 20 feet wide.
   (B)   Minimum length of stacking for drop-off/pick-up lanes shall be
determined at the discretion of the approving authority based on proposed use
of the site.
   (C)   Drop-off/pick-up lanes not designed parallel to the public road shall
meet the same design standards as those for general drive-through lanes.
(Prior Code, § 44.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 13-2020, passed 5-6-
2020; Ord. 07-2023, passed 4-5-2023)
§ 157.634 ADJUSTMENT FOR UNUSUAL AND UNIQUE CONDITIONS.
   The Planning Commission may adjust the required number of spaces listed in
this subchapter if, based on accepted engineering principles, unusual or unique
circumstances or conditions relating to the operational characteristics of the
use exist in a manner, or to such a degree, that such adjustment is equitable
and warranted.
(Prior Code, § 44.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 13-2020, passed 5-6-
2020; Ord. 07-2023, passed 4-5-2023)
§ 157.635 PARKING SPACE/LOT DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Parking space location. Residential parking spaces shall be on the
same lot with the main building(s). Commercial, industrial or manufacturing
parking spaces may be located no farther than 500 feet from the building
entrance.
   (B)   Public parking lot standards. Every parcel of land hereafter used as a
public parking area shall be paved with an asphalt or concrete surface, and
shall have appropriate bumper guards or curbs where needed.
   (C)   Maximum yard area to be used for parking and this subchapter's
parking/access regulations vehicle access lanes.
      (1)   No front yard area in any residential zone shall be used for
parking, except for driveway or side/rear yard access, both of which must be
improved with a hard surface such as gravel, asphalt or concrete.
      (2)   In the case of multiple-family dwellings and non-residential uses
in a Residential Zone, not more than 50% of the required side and rear yards
shall be used for parking.
      (3)   Any yard area used over these limits shall be provided in an
equivalent amount of land elsewhere on the same lot as the building as open
green space, patios, play area, or courts.
   (D)   Additional provisions. The design and maintenance of off-street
parking facilities shall be subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Each parking space shall encompass not less than 180 square feet of
net area. Each parking space shall be not less than nine feet wide, the width
being measured at a right angle for the side lines of the parking space.
      (2)   All commercial, manufacturing, industrial, institutional and multi-
family residential uses shall provide site access which is no less than 24 feet
wide at any given point. Should the site access on to a major corridor (2100
South, Wilson Lane, 4000 South, 1900 West), or should the City Engineer
determine that it is necessary, the access may be widened to accommodate a turn
lane.
      (3)   All non-residential parking and associated access lanes which are
adjacent to any residential zone shall be screened by a hedgerow shrub, masonry
wall or fence not less than five feet, nor more than seven feet high.
      (4)   Hedgerow shrubs shall be maintained and replaced where necessary in
order that the hedge may become an effective screen from bordering property
within a maximum five-year period. Front yard and corner lot fences or
plantings shall maintain height requirements of their respective zones.
      (5)   Lighting and signs shall conform to the requirements set forth in
this subchapter.
      (6)   All parking facilities must be improved with a hard surface, such
as concrete or asphalt, and must be sloped and graded to prevent drainage of
stormwater onto adjacent properties.
(Prior Code, § 44.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 13-2020, passed 5-6-
2020; Ord. 07-2023, passed 4-5-2023)
§ 157.636 OFF-STREET TRUCK LOADING SPACE.
   (A)   Any business which involves the shipping and receiving of goods shall
provide adequate space for loading, and unloading of such goods. Such space
shall be provided outside of the public right of way.
   (B)   The loading and unloading area shall include a ten-foot by 25-foot bay
for the first 3,000 square feet GFA and an additional bay for each 20,000
square feet of floor space, or fraction thereof. The number of required bays
shall be calculated on the square footage of each building with loading/
unloading areas and not on the overall square footage of the buildings on the
site.
(Prior Code, § 44.14) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 13-2020, passed 5-6-
2020; Ord. 07-2023, passed 4-5-2023)
§ 157.637 BUSINESS REQUIRING AUTOMOBILE ACCESS.
   Service stations, roadside stands, public parking lots, and all other
businesses requiring multiple access points to the site shall set such access
points a minimum of 100 feet from each other, unless site conditions render
that distance impossible. In such cases, a reduced distance shall be required,
as determined by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 44.16) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 13-2020, passed 5-6-
2020; Ord. 07-2023, passed 4-5-2023)
§ 157.638 VEHICULAR TRAFFIC TO COMMERCIAL OR MANUFACTURING ZONES.
   No residentially-zoned property may be used as a means of ingress/egress to
commercial, industrial or manufacturing uses or zones.
(Prior Code, § 44.18) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 13-2020, passed 5-6-
2020; Ord. 07-2023, passed 4-5-2023)
§ 157.639 REGULATIONS GOVERNING ACCESSORY VEHICLE OFF-STREET PARKING WITHIN
REQUIRED SIDE YARD AREAS.
   No vehicle shall be parked in the required side yard unless the parking area
is improved with hard surface material such as concrete, gravel or asphalt and
unless the parking area is directly connected to the driveway serving the main
dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 44.20) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 13-2020, passed 5-6-
2020; Ord. 07-2023, passed 4-5-2023)
§ 157.640 OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   Curb, gutter and sidewalks which comply with the city’s public works
standards are required in all residential, commercial, manufacturing uses and
zones, except for the Agricultural A-1 and A-2 zones where such improvements
are or may be exempted.
(Prior Code, § 44.22) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 13-2020, passed 5-6-
2020; Ord. 07-2023, passed 4-5-2023)
PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND PUBLIC UTILITY SUBSTATIONS AND STRUCTURES
§ 157.655 LOCATION.
   The location and arrangement of public buildings and public utility
substations and structures will comply with requirements set forth in this
subchapter and will be in accordance with construction plans submitted to, and
approved by, the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 46.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.656 MINIMUM LOT AREA; UTILITY SUBSTATIONS.
   Each public utility substation shall be located on a lot or parcel of ground
of not less than the following minimum area:
 
Zone                    Minimum Lot Area
In an Agricultural Zone 5,000 sq. ft.
In a Residential Zone   2,000 sq. ft.
 
(Prior Code, § 46.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.657 MINIMUM YARDS; UTILITY SUBSTATIONS.
   Each public utility substation shall maintain the minimum yards required for
a dwelling in the same zone, except that the rear yard may be reduced to the
following:
 
Zone                    Minimum Yard Size
In an Agricultural Zone 10 ft.
In a Residential Zone   5 ft.
 
(Prior Code, § 46.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.658 STREET ACCESS; UTILITY SUBSTATIONS.
   Each public utility substation shall be located on a lot which has adequate
access from a street, alley, right-of-way, or easement.
(Prior Code, § 46.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.659 MINIMUM LOT AREA; PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   Each public building shall be located on a lot of not less than 20,000
square feet in all Residential Estate and Agriculture Zones.
(Prior Code, § 46.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.660 MINIMUM YARDS; PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   Each public building shall meet the minimum yard requirements for a public
building in the zone in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 46.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.661 WIDTH OF LOT; PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   Each public building shall have a minimum width of lot of 100 feet.
(Prior Code, § 46.14) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.662 FRONTAGE; PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   Each public building shall have frontage on a public street.
(Prior Code, § 46.16) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
AIRPORT ZONES AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS
§ 157.675 HEIGHT LIMITS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no structures or natural
growth shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or maintained in the height-
limiting zones hereinafter described to a height in excess of the height
specified therefor, or established for, such zone or any point therein. For the
purpose of this regulation, the following height limits are established, by
elevation in feet above mean sea level, for each of the eight limiting zones in
question.
Limiting Zones Elevation
Limiting Zones            Elevation
Hill Air Force Base, Davis County
Approach Surface Zone     4,758 to 4,988 ft.
Conical Surface Zone      4,938 to 5,288 ft.
Horizontal Surface Zone   4,938 ft.
Transitional Surface Zone 4,758 to 5,288 ft.
Turning Zone              5,288 ft.
Ogden Municipal Airport, Weber County
Approach Surface Zone     4,424 to 4,624 ft.
Conical Surface Zone      4,574 to 4,924 ft.
Horizontal Surface Zone   4,574 ft.
Transitional Surface Zone 4,424 to 4,924 ft.
Turning Zone              4,924 ft.
 
(Prior Code, § 48.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.676 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, no use shall
be made of land within any of the districts or zones listed in §§
157.060 through
157.067 in such a manner as to create electrical interference with radio or
other electronic communication between the airport and aircraft; make it
difficult for flyers to distinguish between airport lights and others; result
in glare in the eyes of flyers using the airport; impair visibility in the
vicinity of the airport; or otherwise endanger the landing, taking off, or
maneuvering of aircraft.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, no places of
public assembly, including, but without limitation, schools, churches,
hospitals, barracks, multiple-dwellings, apartment housing, trailer camps, and
theaters, shall be erected or otherwise located within any of the areas
established as an approach zone by this subchapter for a distance of 11,000
feet from the end of the runway.
(Prior Code, § 48.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.677 HAZARD MARKINGS AND LIGHTING.
   Any permit or variance granted under §§
157.035 through
157.048, if such action is considered advisable to effectuate the purposes of
this subchapter and reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to
require the owner of the structure or natural growth in question to permit
Ogden Municipal Airport or Hill Air Force Base, at its own expense, to install,
operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to
indicate to flyers the presence of an airport.
(Prior Code, § 48.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.678 MOST RESTRICTIVE LIMITATION PREVAILS.
   Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more
restrictive limitation shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 48.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.679 AIRPORT MASTER PLAN PROVISIONS.
   Airport height provisions for any airport shall be determined by, and based
on, an airport master plan for such airport, approved by the proper airport
officials and/or by the Civil Aeronautics Administration, and recorded in the
office of the County Recorder. Any such map so approved and recorded at the
time of passage of this subchapter shall be deemed to be as much a part of this
subchapter by this reference as if fully described and detailed herein, but any
amendment to such airport master plan shall become effective only after
amendment to this subchapter, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 48.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
LAND USE PERMIT, BUILDING PERMIT, AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
§ 157.690 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The use of land or the construction, alteration, repair, removal, or
occupancy of any structure or any part thereof, as provided or as restricted in
this subchapter, shall not be commenced, or proceeded with, except after the
issuance of a written permit for the same by the City Building Inspector;
provided that no permit shall be necessary where the erection, construction,
reconstruction, or alteration is minor in character as defined herein, or as
determined by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.691 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   No land shall be used or occupied, and no building hereafter structurally
altered or erected, or shall be used or changed in use, except for agricultural
purposes, until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the
Building Inspector stating that the building, or the proposed use thereof, or
the use of the land, complies with the provisions of this subchapter. A like
certificate shall be issued for the purpose of maintaining, renewing, changing,
or extending a nonconforming use. A certificate of occupancy, either for the
whole or part of a building or structure, shall be applied for coincidentally
with the application for a building permit, and shall be issued within ten days
after the erection or structural alteration of such building or structure, or
part thereof, shall have been completed in conformity with the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.692 CHANGES TO BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE AND MANAGEMENT PROCESS.
   (A)   Time permits valid. Except as otherwise provided herein, no building
permit, once lawfully issued under the authority of the city, shall remain in
force and of any effect, nor shall any building or construction of any type
whatsoever be undertaken under the presumed authority of such permit, unless
construction shall have begun in earnest and substantial completion of such
authorized construction shall have been obtained within 18 months of the
original date of issue of said building permit.
   (B)   Time extension. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and for good cause
shown, a building permit lawfully issued under the authority of the city may be
extended upon written notification by the builder to the city, and subject to
the approval of the city’s Building Inspector, for an additional period not to
exceed 24 month.
   (C)   Additional cost. If a building permit is to be extended under the
terms of this subchapter, as set out above, a calculation shall be done as if
the request for an extension was a request for an original building permit and
applicable fees shall be calculated as of that point in time. This shall be
done in order to ascertain what the cost of such a permit would have been if
this were a first request for a permit. If the calculation finds that, at the
time the permit extension is requested, the permit holder would have been
required to pay an amount in excess of the fees paid for the original building
permit, the permit holder shall pay the difference before such permit extension
shall be valid.
(Prior Code, § 50.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 11-99, passed 10-20-
1999) Penalty, see §
157.999
PETITIONER REQUIREMENTS; REZONING PROCEDURE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT; CONDITIONAL
ZONING
§ 157.705 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish responsibilities and
commitments of both the city and a zoning petitioner at the time the city
considers rezoning property in response to a petition filed by an applicant/
developer. This subchapter also outlines the procedure and options of the city
in considering rezoning approval.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.706 DEVELOPMENT TO BE LINKED TO REZONING A CITY POLICY.
   (A)   Since the purpose of zoning regulations is to promote the general
welfare, safety, health, convenience, and economic prosperity of the residents
of the city, it is city policy that rezoning of property, upon a petition by
property owners, should further this purpose. As rezoning of property by itself
does nothing to promote these goals; the achievement of proposed development
upon which rezoning is based is of prime importance to the city to justify the
actual rezoning requested.
   (B)   It is to the advantage of a petitioner for rezoning to gain city
approval to a development concept for property which is the subject of a zoning
petition. Approval of a development concept will be in accordance with policies
and guidelines outlined in the city’s adopted master plan respecting the needs
and desires of residents in the immediate area.
   (C)   Therefore, in order to associate projected development with a rezoning
petition, the city requires that a concept development plan, showing a
petitioner’s general development proposals, be submitted as a part of a
rezoning petition for all proposed multiple-family (over eight units) dwelling,
mixed use, recreation resort, commercial, and industrial developments.
   (D)   With this information, the city can more readily determine whether a
rezoning petition would be in conformance with the city adopted master plan,
its goals and policies, and be compatible with surrounding land use and zoning,
and can better assess the impact of the proposed development on existing public
infrastructure along with the attitudes of property owners and residents of the
impacted area. The intent herein is to enhance flexibility and facilitate ease
of acceptance in the city’s response to rezoning requests.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.707 PETITION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city procedure for processing rezoning petitions for multiple-
family (over eight) dwellings, mixed use, recreational resort, commercial, and
industrial developments requires a petitioner to submit, as part of the
rezoning petition, a concept development plan and to specify the general land
uses and the general site and building arrangements which will occupy the
property and the general time frame and phasing of development if rezoning is
granted.
   (B)   Planning committees and neighboring property owners will be notified
not only of the rezoning petition, but also of the general details of what is
proposed and how and when it will be located on the property. The notice of
public hearing before the City Council shall also contain the same development
information.
   (C)   The Planning Commission and the City Council will consider whether the
petition should be approved or disapproved based upon the merits and
compatibility of the proposed project with the master plan and surrounding land
uses, and its impact on the surrounding area.
   (D)   The Planning Commission and City Council will consider also whether
the proposed development, and in turn the petitioned for rezoning, is needed to
provide a service or convenience brought about by changing conditions, and
which therefor promotes the public welfare. They may require changes in the
concept plan in order to achieve compatibility and may impose any conditions to
lessen, or eliminate, adverse impacts.
(Prior Code, § 52.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.708 CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The plan to be submitted with a rezoning petition shall indicate general
land use types, approximate locations, and arrangements of buildings,
structures, and facilities and general open space, parking, access, and traffic
patterns, and shall be regarded as a concept plan only, with more specific
development plans to be reviewed by the city at a later date as part of its
site plan design review, conditional use approval, and building permit issuance
process. The information shown on the concept plan may vary in detail depending
on the scale of project. Small scale projects shall be more detailed than large
scale projects, which may be described in broad general terms in plan and/or
narrative form.
(Prior Code, § 52.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.709 CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT PLAN ATTACHED TO REZONING.
   At the time of rezoning approval by the City Council, the concept
development plan is also approved and becomes attached to the rezoning and the
rezoned land. The petitioner/owner, and any assigns or successors in interest,
becomes committed to develop only in accordance with the proposals outlined in
the plan, and any materially-different concept, use, building arrangement, and
the like will not be approved, nor will building permits be issued, by the city
until and unless such plan is amended by the City Council after recommendations
of the Planning Commission and after public hearing, as per the procedure
followed for original approval. If the city denies such changes or amendments,
and/or the concept plan is abandoned, the city may institute steps to revert
the zoning to its former or other appropriate zone as herein outlined.
(Prior Code, § 52.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.710 PROCEDURE FOR PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT PROPOSALS.
   After rezoning is completed, a development proposal shall be processed and
specific plans for all, or a phase, of the development on the rezoned land
shall be reviewed as required by the zoning ordinance and other applicable
regulations and codes in effect, and shall be in accordance with the approved
concept development plan and any conditions attached thereto.
(Prior Code, § 52.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.711 DEVELOPMENT TO TAKE PLACE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE WITH APPROVED PLANS.
   Where a concept development plan has been approved in conjunction with the
rezoning of land, and where more specific plans have been approved as part of
the zoning process for obtaining building permits, such permits shall be issued
only for uses, buildings, and structures approved on the plan. Permits shall be
issued, and development shall only proceed in such a manner as to assure that
all amenities and features of the plan are constructed and all conditions are
complied with as development proceeds.
(Prior Code, § 52.14) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.712 REVISION TO ORIGINAL ZONING DESIGNATION.
   (A)   If development does not occur as proposed at the time of zoning
approval, the public benefits expected from the development cannot be realized,
and the effect of the rezoning is therefore without merit in terms of improving
the public economic prosperity, general welfare, safety, health, and
convenience to the city’s residents. If, in such cases, the city finds that the
zoning purpose has not been attained, the city then may declare its intent to
revert the zoning to its former or other appropriate zone so future
opportunities for similar development in the same general area may be shared by
all properties deemed suitable and so that a speculative zoning monopoly is not
created.
   (B)   If building permits have not been obtained and construction of the
development or an agreed-upon phase thereof, in accordance with the approved
concept and final development plans, has not commenced within one year from the
date of zoning approval or other time period as set by the City Council, the
city may examine the reasons for the delay and the progress of the developers
to that point, and may either extend the time period or initiate steps to
revert the zoning designation of the previously-rezoned land to its former or
other appropriate zone. The reversion of zoning shall follow the same procedure
established by law for amending the zoning map.
(Prior Code, § 52.16) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.713 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The City Council may require a petitioner, at the time of zoning
approval, to enter into a zoning development agreement which specifies and
details the petitioner’s responsibilities and commitments in carrying out
development contained in an approved concept development plan, and which lists
the conditions and limitations of development imposed by the city and also the
contemplated action of the city in case of default by a petitioner, or any
successors in interest, in the rezoned property.
   (B)   The agreement shall also contain the petitioner’s acknowledgment that
the commitment of zoning is predicted upon the good faith accomplishment of the
approved development and, if not started or constructed within the specified
periods of time, the city may take steps to rescind zoning approval and revert
the zoning to its former or other appropriate zone.
(Prior Code, § 52.18) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.714 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT TO CONSTITUTE TO COVENANT RUNNING WITH THE
LAND.
   A development agreement, which has been executed as part of a rezoning
process, shall be recorded in the City Recorder’s office as a covenant running
with the land, concurrently with adoption of an ordinance implementing a
rezoning petition.
(Prior Code, § 52.20) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.715 CITY ZONING ALTERNATIVE ACTIONS.
   (A)   In all rezoning petition considerations, the City Council, after
considering the recommendations of the Planning Commission and after holding
the required public hearing(s), may take any of the following final alternative
actions:
      (1)   (a)   Where a concept development plan is required as provided for
in this subchapter, the City Council may approve rezoning and concurrently
approve a concept plan for the development of the petitioned for property, in
whole or in part, with or without changes or conditions, and adopt an ordinance
rezoning the property, or the city may, by motion, grant conditional zoning
approval, with the rezoning to become effective by passage of an ordinance at a
future date when more detailed development plans and/or other information have
been approved by the city;
         (b)   The action of division (A)(1) above represents a zoning
commitment by the city with fulfillment based upon a petitioner’s future, more
complete proposals for development;
         (c)   Conditional zoning approval shall be valid for a period of one
year or such other time period as set by the City Council. Upon the expiration
of such period of time, the City Council, after due consideration of additional
material submitted, shall either grant an extension of time or rescind its
conditional approval and deny the rezoning petition;
      (2)   The City Council may grant or deny a rezoning petition outright in
whole or in part. They may require the petitioner to execute a development
agreement with the city where they deem it appropriate and necessary; and
      (3)   The City Council may rezone, or agree to rezone, the subject land
to any other zone or zones deemed more appropriate when considering the master
plan, citizen’s comments, and other factors, and which may allow some, or all,
of the petitioner’s requested uses.
   (B)   The City Council, upon its own initiative and after receiving the
recommendation of the Planning Commission, may zone or rezone land:
      (1)   Where it is determined to be in the best interests of the general
public;
      (2)   As a result of amendments to the county master plan, in order to
achieve consistency; or
      (3)   Where changed conditions, public attitudes, or lifestyles so
indicate a need.
(Prior Code, § 52.22) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
DESIGN REVIEW
§ 157.730 PURPOSE.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to ensure that the general
design, layout and appearance of buildings and structures are compatible with
their surroundings and aid the orderly and harmonious development of the city.
(Prior Code, § 54.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 19-2015, passed 10-21-
2015; Ord. 06-2022, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 157.731 APPLICATION; REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   All proposals in commercial or manufacturing zones shall be subject to
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Regardless of the zone underlying the land use, the following uses,
including any accessory uses thereto, shall be subject to the provisions of
this subchapter:
      (1)   Multi-family dwellings; and
      (2)   Public and quasi-public uses.
   (C)   The following shall be submitted as part of all applications for
projects subject to the provisions of this subchapter, further details of which
are found in this subchapter:
      (1)   A preliminary site plan containing the following:
         (a)   Building locations and elevations. Elevations shall show:
            1.   Building materials and colors; and
            2.   Elevation drawings shall also contain a table showing ratio
and percentages of each material/color.
         (b)   Landscaping plans shall contain a table showing types, numbers
and percentages of each landscape material, as well as the percentage of total
site landscaping;
         (c)   Parking; and
         (d)   Signage.
      (2)   Once the applicant has received approval of their preliminary site
plan from the Planning Commission, they shall proceed to prepare civil drawings
and shall present those to the Planning Commission to receive approval of the
final site plan.
   (D)   All applications for site plan approval shall be reviewed and approved
by the Planning Commission, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   All buildings or combination of buildings which total over 40,000
square feet on a single parcel. After first being presented to and receiving a
recommendation from the Planning Commission, the City Council shall review and
may approve, deny or approve with conditions site plans for these buildings.
      (2)   Any requests for building materials not otherwise considered as a
primary or secondary material. After first being presented to and receiving a
recommendation from the Planning Commission, the City Council shall review and
may approve, deny or approve with conditions any requests for alternate
building materials.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall determine whether the proposed
architectural and site development plans submitted are consistent with this
subchapter and with the general objectives of this subchapter and shall give or
withhold approval accordingly. Denial may be appealed to the City Council.
   (F)   No building, occupancy or other land use permit shall be issued until
the proposed project has received approval under the terms of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 54.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 19-2015, passed 10-21-
2015; Ord. 06-2022, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 157.732 EXCEPTIONS.
   Projects subject to conditional use and/or planned unit development approval
shall have site plan and design review incorporated into such review. Such
projects shall be required to meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 54.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 19-2015, passed 10-21-
2015; Ord. 06-2022, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 157.733 STANDARDS OF REVIEW.
   The Planning Commission shall consider the following matters, and others
when applicable, in its review of applications and where the plan is found
deficient the plan design shall be amended or conditions imposed to mitigate
such deficiencies when considering:
   (A)   Traffic safety and circulation.
      (1)   Does the site plan comply with the West Haven City Engineering
Design Standards and Specifications related to traffic ingress, egress and
internal circulation?
      (2)   A traffic study may be required, if in the opinion of the Planning
Commission, with input from the City Engineer, such would be necessary.
   (B)   Parking. Does the site plan comply with city ordinances regarding
design, location and number of parking stalls required?
   (C)   Signage. Does the proposed signage meet the requirements of the city
sign ordinance?
   (D)   Landscaping.
      (1)   The following landscaping shall be provided in each project subject
to the provisions of this subchapter:
         (a)   Front yard. Landscaping shall be required along the entire
frontage of the lot, except for the frontage required for ingress/egress. Said
landscaping shall be a minimum of 15 feet deep, calculated from the property
line.
         (b)   Side/rear yards. There shall be a minimum of five feet of
landscaping between parking areas and side or rear property lines (except
between commercial uses where said landscaping is not visible from areas of
public access) and a minimum of five feet of landscaping between an access
driveway and a side or rear property line unless said driveway is to be used
for common access by an adjacent lot.
         (c)   Parking area landscaping. Landscaping within all parking and
driveway areas shall comprise a minimum 5% of the total square footage of those
areas and shall be placed within those parking areas to break up the mass of
asphalt.
      (2)   Where possible, developers are encouraged to preserve existing,
healthy trees.
      (3)   Developers are encouraged to take current drought and other
environmental conditions into account when preparing a landscaping plan.
      (4)   Landscape plans shall include a minimum of three items from the
following list:
         (a)   Trees;
         (b)   Decorative rock and boulders (gravel and pea gravel are not
permitted);
         (c)   Shrubs;
         (d)   Groundcover; and
         (e)   Grass (artificial or other).
   (E)   Building/site layout.
      (1)   All buildings shall be designed with breaks in the facade. This may
be accomplished through a change in building materials, actual breaks in the
facade, a mix of roofline projections.
      (2)   All mechanical equipment shall be screened so as to not be seen
from any public right-of- way adjacent to the project.
      (3)   Developers are encouraged to keep in mind visual compatibility with
existing development when preparing the site layout and architectural
elevations of proposed buildings.
      (4)   Buildings which are located within 100 feet of the centerline of
the following roads shall be designed so it appears the front of the building
faces the street, regardless of how the building is actually oriented:
         (a)   2550 South;
         (b)   Midland Drive;
         (c)   4000 South;
         (d)   3500 West;
         (e)   1900 West;
         (f)   2100 South/Wilson Lane;
         (g)   1800 South; and
         (h)   Hinckley Drive.
   (F)   Engineering standards. Does the site plan comply with the West Haven
City Engineering Design Standards and Specifications related to utility
easements, drainage and other engineering requirements?
   (G)   Governing documents. Is the site subject to a master development
agreement or any conditions or agreements related to the property?
(Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 19-2015, passed 10-21-2015; Ord. 06-2022,
passed 3-16-2022)
§ 157.734 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Design approval may include such other conditions consistent with the
considerations of this subhapter as the Commission or Planning Director deem
reasonable and necessary under the circumstances to carry out the intent of
this subchapter.
   (A)   Building materials. New buildings shall be designed and constructed to
meet the following criteria.
      (1)   Building exteriors shall be designed and constructed with primary
and secondary building materials from the list of building materials in
division (C) below.
      (2)   The front elevation, as well as any other elevation which faces the
street shall be constructed of a minimum of 60% primary materials, with a
maximum of 40% secondary materials.
      (3)   Windows and doors shall be excluded from the calculation of
exterior building material requirements. Non-functioning, decorative only
windows may be included in the calculation of building materials.
      (4)   A maximum of six colors for the primary materials may be permitted.
      (5)   Secondary materials shall be of a complementary hue and shade to
primary building materials. A maximum of four accent colors may be allowed for
secondary materials.
      (6)   A minimum of 15% of the front elevation, as well as any side or
rear elevation which faces the street or major corridor, shall consist of
upgraded architectural features as defined in division (C) below. See division
(B) below for those streets which constitute major corridors.
      (7)   Non-primary elevations which do not face the street or major
corridor shall consist of at least 5% upgraded architectural features as
defined in division (C) below. See division (B) below for those streets which
constitute major corridors
   (B)   Major corridor requirements. Projects which are adjacent to, or
located within 400 feet of the centerline of 2100 South/Wilson Lane, 1800
South, 1900 West, Midland Drive, 3500 West, 4000 South, Hinckley Drive and 2550
South shall be subject to the following additional requirements. Any building
face which can be seen from the above-referenced roads shall be constructed of
a minimum of 60% primary materials.
   (C)   Materials list and architectural features.
      (1)   Primary materials. Shall include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Architectural insulated metal panels;
         (b)   Brick;
         (c)   Concrete masonry unit (CMU), if it is textured to have the
appearance of a different material;
         (d)   Glass;
         (e)   Rock;
         (f)   Stone (may be natural or manufactured);
         (g)   Fiber cement siding, if used in a craftsman style of
architecture; and
         (h)   Engineered wood siding, if used in a craftsman style of
architecture.
      (2)   Secondary materials. May include, but shall not be limited to:
         (a)   Concrete;
         (b)   Non-insulated corrugated and ribbed metal;
         (c)   Fiber cement siding, if used in a non-craftsman architectural
style;
         (d)   Engineered wood siding, if used in a non-craftsman architectural
style;
         (e)   Stucco;
         (f)   Tile; and
         (g)   Wood.
      (3)   Upgraded architectural features. May include, but shall not be
limited to:
         (a)   Alternating brick patterns;
         (b)   Archways;
         (c)   Awnings;
         (d)   Bays;
         (e)   Canopies;
         (f)   Corbels;
         (g)   Cornices;
         (h)   Decorative art (must be permanent);
         (i)   Donners;
         (j)   Pillars;
         (k)   Porte Cocheres;
         (l)   Porches;
         (m)   Porticos;
         (n)   Shutters; and
         (o)   Timbers.
      (4)   Minimum. Developers shall have a minimum of three different
building materials, not including those which are considered upgraded
architectural features.
      (5)   Alternative materials. Upon recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the City Council may approve alternative materials if the Council
makes specific findings that the requested material is comparable to or
superior to a listed, approved material for the specific development or
remodeling project proposed.
   (D)   Warranty. All exterior materials shall be installed in a professional
workmanlike manner and be guaranteed to be maintenance-free for at least ten
years. Finishes upon exterior materials shall be guaranteed maintenance-free
for a minimum of five years. Materials or finishes without such guarantees
shall not be permitted. Guarantees shall be in writing from the manufacturer
and a fully executed copy shall be provided to the city.
(Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 19-2015, passed 10-21-2015; Ord. 06-2022,
passed 3-16-2022)
§ 157.735 AGREEMENT FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the developer shall enter into
an escrow agreement with the city wherein security shall be provided for any on
and off-site public improvements. Occupancy shall not occur until all
improvements have either been installed or guaranteed for future installation.
(Prior Code, § 54.14) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 19-2015, passed 10-21-
2015; Ord. 06-2022, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 157.736 TIME LIMITATIONS ON APPROVAL.
   If construction of any development for which design approval has been
granted has not commenced within 12 months from date of approval, the approval
shall be deemed automatically revoked. Upon application, an extension of time
may be granted by the Planning Commission, provided such application is made
prior to the expiration/revocation of the initial approval.
(Prior Code, § 54.16) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 19-2015, passed 10-21-
2015; Ord. 06-2022, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 157.737 MODIFICATION.
   Upon request of the applicant, modifications to the approved plan may be
made by the Planning Commission, it is found that the modification will meet
requirements of this subchapter. The Planning Commission may revoke or modify a
design approval which does not conform to any requirement of the approved
permit.
(Prior Code, § 54.22) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 19-2015, passed 10-21-
2015; Ord. 06-2022, passed 3-16-2022)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 157.755 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to regulate the design,
placement, and use of signs within the city, and to authorize the compatible
uses of such signs. Such regulations may include design, location, size, type,
safety impacts, and aesthetics, and other such standards as may be outlined in
this subchapter. By doing so, the city will promote both short- and long-term
civic beauty, as well as encourage public order.
   (B)   For large-scale (ten acres or more) commercial developments, it is the
purpose of this subchapter to facilitate a cohesive design of signs within the
development in order to preserve and protect the aesthetics of the development
and the surrounding streetscape.
   (C)   It is not the intent of this subchapter to regulate the content of
public speech. The regulations of this subchapter are intended to apply to both
on-premises and off-premises signs, but do not apply to handheld placards and
other similar devices traditionally used for public protest and the exercise of
free speech.
   (D)   In interpreting and applying this subchapter, the rules, regulations,
and terms contained herein shall be construed to the most restrictive meaning
possible.
   (E)   Any sign not specifically permitted by this subchapter is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 56.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 7-2003, passed 9-17-
2003; Ord. 36-2021, passed 12-21-2021; Ord. 12-2023, passed 6-21-2023)
§ 157.756 ENFORCEMENT; APPEALS.
   The City Community Development Director, or his or her designee, is hereby
vested with all duties and powers necessary to enforce this subchapter. Such
powers and duties include the power to:
   (A)   Issue permits for construction, repair, and/or alteration of all signs
regulated by this subchapter;
   (B)   Ascertain that all sign construction, repair, and/or alteration is
done in compliance with applicable federal, state, and local building codes and
other relevant regulations;
   (C)   Conduct any and all inspections and re-inspections during the
construction, repair, and/or alteration process as may be necessary to
determine compliance with this subchapter;
   (D)   Require changes to the construction, repair, and/or alteration of a
sign when such sign is found to be out of compliance with this subchapter;
   (E)   Issue notices of violation, citations, written warnings, and other
such enforcement proceedings as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter;
   (F)   To abate and remove unsafe, dangerous, or illegal signs as follows:
      (1)   Prior to doing so, the Community Development Director, or his or
her designee, shall provide the party responsible for the sign with a written
notice of the violation(s) and outline what steps the party needs to take to
bring the sign into compliance with this subchapter.
         (a)   Temporary signs shall be given 72 hours to take the corrective
steps; and
         (b)   Permanent signs shall be given 30 days to take the corrective
steps.
      (2)   Signs posted upon public property, including in the public right-
of-way, may be immediately removed by the Community Development Director, or
his or her designee.
   (G)   Require that signs related to a business which has been discontinued
be removed within 30 days of the business ceasing operation; and
   (H)   Any person who wishes to appeal any decision or notice of action
undertaken pursuant to this subchapter, may do so by following remedy
procedures outlined in §§
157.035 through
157.048.
   (I)   A request may be made to the Planning Commission to adjust the
requirements of the sign regulations contained herein. The Planning Commission
may adjust any sign regulation contained in this subchapter if, unusual or
unique circumstances or conditions related to the operational characteristics
of the use exist in a manner, or to such a degree, that such adjustment is
equitable and warranted; and it would not go against the principles outlined in
the General Plan. The Planning Commission shall make findings if an adjustment
is made.
(Prior Code, § 56.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 7-2003, passed 9-17-
2003; Ord. 36-2021, passed 12-21-2021; Ord. 12-2023, passed 6-21-2023; Ord. 41-
2024, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 157.757 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. Any display remaining in place or not maintained for a
period of 90 days or more which identifies a use no longer in operation on the
property.
   ANIMATED SIGN. See FLASHING SIGN and ROTATING OR REVOLVING SIGN.
   AREA OF SIGN. The total square footage of each and every face of a sign, but
does not include any frame or other material. For signs not otherwise supported
by a distinctive background, the sign area shall be calculated by enclosing all
the lettering by the smallest possible six-sided polygon and calculating the
area of the polygon.
   AWNING SIGN. A device attached to the façade of a building, usually
extending over sidewalks, windows, and business entries, sometimes to provide
weather protection to pedestrians walking beneath such shelters. Awning
structures slope downward and away from a building, and typically support
canvas, wood, or metal slats or glass. Canvas awnings may have a valance
(vertical flap) at the bottom of the sloping plane, which may be used to mount
a sign identifying the building or store.
   BALLOON, FIXED. Any air-filled or gas-filled balloon attached to a string,
rope, or similar device, and tethered to a fixed or moving place or object,
including a motor vehicle. See also INFLATABLE DEVICE.
   BANNER. A sign made of fabric, cloth, plastic, or paper used only
temporarily that is not permanently mounted or affixed to the ground or any
structure, with or without enclosing framework, used to advertise a fundraiser,
promotional or sales event, special or seasonal event, or other temporary on-
site informational or directional sign. PENNANTS, as defined herein, shall be
considered BANNERS for purposes of this subchapter.
   BILLBOARD. A sign of any kind or nature whatsoever used to advertise:
      (1)   Any business, industry, entertainment, or activity not conducted;
      (2)   Any goods or other tangible items not produced, sold, or available;
or
      (3)   Any services or other intangibles not available or rendered on the
premises upon which such sign is located; provided, however, such term shall
not include any regional guide sign, nameplate, temporary real estate sign,
identification sign, or on-site advertising sign as such terms are defined in
this subchapter. Such term shall also not include any notice posted by any
public officer in the performance of an official duty, or any directional,
warning, or informational sign required or authorized by any federal, state,
county, or local authority.
   BUILDING ELEVATION. An exterior face of the unit for which a sign is
proposed.
   CABINET SIGN. A sign with text or symbols printed on a plastic or acrylic
sheet that is mounted on a cabinet or box that houses the lighting source and
equipment.
   CANOPY SIGN (GAS STATION). An illuminated sign designed to be an integral
part of the architecture of a gasoline service station, and intended to be
placed above the fuel pumps of a service station for purposes of providing
light for the working area and commercial identification.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign, or portion thereof, with characters, letters,
or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face of
the display surface of the sign.
   COMMUNITY SIGN. A temporary sign placed by civic or educational groups, or
by the city, which is used to advertise various events held in the city.
   COMPANY SYMBOL. A mark or logo that can either stand alone or be used with a
company name to identify a company.
   CORPORATE FLAG. A flag displaying the name, symbol, or logotype of a
business or corporation.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. Any sign that serves solely to guide or designate the
location or direction to any place or area.
   DISPLAY SURFACE. The surface made available by the structure for the
mounting of material to carry the advertising message, trademark, or emblem.
   ELECTRONIC READERBOARD OR ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD. A changeable copy sign
upon which the copy is displayed or changed by electronic means.
   FLAG. Any piece of durable fabric of distinctive design attached to a
permanent pole that is used as a symbol of a recognized federal, state, or
local governmental entity. Signs which are non-governmental in nature but
similar in size and purpose to a governmental FLAG shall be regulated as a WIND
SIGN.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any sign which is designed to intermittently blink on and
off, or which creates the illusion of blinking on and off, or which contains
running, traveling, or animating lights upon the sign structure or within the
sign area; such term shall not include time and temperature displays, or other
electronic readerboard or electronic message board signs.
   FREEWAY-ORIENTED SIGN. A freestanding, on-site advertising or directional
sign, not including billboards, located on property abutting a freeway right-
of-way or freeway frontage road, and whose height, location, and sign copy are
designed in a manner which permits identification from an adjacent freeway.
   HEIGHT OF SIGN. The vertical distance from the uppermost point of a sign to
the ground immediately below such point; provided that, if the finished grade
has been raised immediately below such point, the HEIGHT shall be measured from
the average finished grade of the surrounding area.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. Any sign designed solely to identify the use or
occupant of a structure or site, and which contains no other advertising copy.
   ILLEGAL SIGN. Any sign or advertising display constructed or erected without
first complying with all applicable ordinances and regulations in effect at the
time of its construction, erection, or use.
   INFLATABLE DEVICE. Balloons exceeding two cubic feet and other inflatable
devices, including figure objects and caricatures that are intended to attract
attention.
   INSTITUTIONAL SIGN. A sign on any private property, public place, or
building with connection to a medical or dental surgery, clinic, hospital, rest
home, home for the aged, or other place of a similar nature.
   LOCATION. A lot, parcel, site or premises, building, wall, or any place
whatsoever upon which a sign is erected, constructed, or maintained.
   MARQUEE (CHANGEABLE COPY) SIGN. A sign or readerboard that is characterized
by nonelectronic changeable copy, whether said sign is freestanding or mounted
on a structure.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A ground-mounted sign, single-sided, double-sided, or three-
sided, supported from grade with a solid base, or the appearance of a solid
base, that is at least 75% of the width of the sign that is not connected to
another structure. Such sign is oriented for vehicular view along roadways, and
is often used at entries to a building or project.
   MULTIPLE-FACED SIGN. A sign with more than one sign face.
   MURAL. A painting, tile, or other materials deemed appropriate that comprise
artwork on an exterior wall in public view, whose primary purpose is
commemorative or artistic rather than advertising.
   NAMEPLATE. Any lighted or unlighted sign mounted on, or near, an entry that
identifies the name and occupation or profession of the occupant of the
premises.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign that complied with all applicable ordinances
and regulations in effect at the time it was erected, but which does not
conform to one or more of the requirements of this subchapter.
   NOTICE SIGN. A sign posted by either a public agency or private individuals
intended to convey legal information for specific properties. Signs can include
building permits, no trespassing notices, public hearing notices, and the like.
   ON-PREMISE SIGN. A sign or signs which are located on the same premise as
the business, event, or activity is conducted.
   PARCEL or LOT. Real property under separate ownership from any other PARCEL
or LOT, or under separate lease of at least ten years' duration, with the
option to renew, which has street or highway frontage.
   PENNANT. Any plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not containing a
message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, string, or other similar
device, usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
   PERMANENT SALE SIGN. A sign that indicates a sale in progress and is posted
more than 30 days during any 60-day period.
   PLANNED COMMERCIAL CENTERS. Small regional centers consisting of individual
large and small-scale commercial uses selling a broad range of goods or
services to a market beyond the local community. It must contain at least ten
acres of commercial land and 100,000 square feet of commercial floor space.
   POLE SIGN. A ground-mounted sign that is typically supported by no more than
two uprights or braces (for example, pylon-supported) that are not connected to
another structure. Any sign with a base that is less than 75% of the width of
the sign shall be considered a pole sign.
   POLITICAL SIGN. A sign advertising a candidate or candidates for public
elective office, or a political party, or a sign urging a particular vote on a
public issue decided by ballot.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs
converted to A-frames or T-frames; sandwich board signs; balloons used as
signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs attached to, or painted upon,
vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless said vehicle
is used in the normal day-to-day transportation operations of the business, and
is not parked away from the business primarily to gain visibility from a public
right-of-way.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A pedestrian-oriented, double-sided sign which projects
from a building and is mounted perpendicular to the building wall.
   PUBLIC NECESSITY. Any sign used to control traffic, warn people of potential
dangerous or hazardous situations and other regulatory purposes. Signs can
include: street signs, danger signs, railroad crossing signs, geologic hazard
signs, and signs of public service companies indicating danger.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Real or personal property that is owned, held, or managed
by a public entity.
   PUMP ISLAND SIGN. Any sign attached to a fuel-dispensing pump, either
affixed to, or placed upon, the pump.
   READERBOARD. See MARQUEE SIGN.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. Any sign and sign structure of a temporary nature relating
to the sale, lease, or other disposition of real property.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign upon a roof, upon a structure that appears to be a roof
(such as a mansard roof), or above the roofline of the building elevation to
which it is attached.
   SIGN. Any display, exhibit, declaration, demonstration, graphic
announcement, inflatable device, illustration, or insignia used to advertise or
promote the interest of any person, business, institution, or  organization
when the same is placed outdoors, or on the inside of a window to be seen from
the outside, in view of the general public; provided that this definition does
not apply to the display of the flag of a nation, state, county, or city, or
any official flag or banner of any bona fide religious or fraternal
organization.
   SIGN AREA. See AREA OF SIGN.
   SIGN COPY. Any characters, letters, or type that constitutes the message of
the sign.
   SIGN HEIGHT. See HEIGHT OF SIGN.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The uprights, bracing, guy rods, cables, framework, and
other support of a sign or billboard.
   SNIPE SIGN. Any sign or poster placed on trees, fences, light posts, or
utility poles, except those posted by a government or public utility.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The lineal foot width of a building site or parcel of land,
along or fronting on a street or other rights-of-way, excluding alleys.
   SUSPENDED SIGN. A pedestrian-oriented, double-sided sign hung over a
walkway, or beneath an awning or arcade, perpendicular to the face of the
building to which it is attached.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign that is used only temporarily and is not
permanently mounted or affixed to the ground or any structure.
   WALL SIGN. A sign that is affixed to, or painted on, an exterior wall of a
building in a manner that the wall becomes the supporting structure for, or
forms the background surface of, the sign.
   WIND SIGN. A sign, group of signs, display or group of displays, banners,
non-governmental flags, balloons, or other objects designed and fashioned in
such a manner as to move when subjected to wind pressure.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any words, picture, symbol, brand name, business name logo,
including any negative or clear spaces between graphics, or combination
thereof, designed to communicate information about an activity, business,
commodity, event, sale, or service, that is applied or attached to a window or
located within five feet of the inside of a window in a manner that it can be
seen from the exterior of the structure.
(Prior Code, § 56.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 7-2003, passed 9-17-
2003; Ord. 36-2021, passed 12-21-2021; Ord. 12-2023, passed 6-21-2023; Ord. 17-
2024, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 157.758 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   Any sign not permitted is prohibited in the city. The following signs are
specifically prohibited:
   (A)   Hot or cold air balloons, or inflatables, except when such fall under
the definition of temporary sign;
   (B)   Any sign which flashes, blinks, uses chaser lights or is animated.
Commercial electronic message signs may be permitted, so long as the messages
are composed of static images;
   (C)   Projecting signs;
   (D)   Roof signs;
   (E)   Any truck, trailer, or other vehicle conspicuously parked in the
public right-of-way for more than 72 consecutive hours with an advertising
message displayed on the vehicle designed to attract attention to a business,
product, or promotion;
   (F)   Graffiti;
   (G)   Spotlights directed into the night sky, except as part of an approved
promotional period for temporary signs;
   (H)   With the exception of billboard signs, as defined and regulated
herein, any off-premises signs, except as may be necessary to provide
directions to a residential subdivision or planned unit development;
   (I)   Any handbill or sign which is affixed, painted, marked, or written on
any part or portion of the public right-of-way, including sidewalks,
crosswalks, curbs, park strips, light poles, lamp posts, hydrants, trees,
shrubs, power poles, or any other structures. This does not apply to the
painting of house numbers on curbs; and
   (J)   No sign shall be placed on public property, which includes any city,
county or state easement or right-of-way, unless the sign is erected by the
city, county, or state. Those signs may not exceed 36 inches in height.
(Prior Code, § 56.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 7-2003, passed 9-17-
2003; Ord. 36-2021, passed 12-21-2021; Ord. 12-2023, passed 6-21-2023; Ord. 17-
2024, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 157.759 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   (A)   Commercial, industrial, and residential signs are permitted in the
sizes and zones outlined in the table in division (B) below.
   (B)   Certain signs may contain additional regulations, which can be found
in the table below.
Sign Type Building Permit Max. Height  Max. Area (sq. Permitted Zones Lighting
          Required        (ft.)        ft.)                           Permitted
              Building Max. Height    Max. Area (sq.                  Lighting
Sign Type     Permit   (ft.)          ft.)            Permitted Zones Permitted
              Required
Awning        Y        (See below)    (See below)     C-1, C-2, C-3,  N
                       D              D               M-1, M-2
Banner        N        6              96              All             N
Billboard     Y        (See below)    675             (See below)     Y
                       F                              F
Canopy        Y        20 (See below) (See below)     C-1, C-2, C-3,  Y
                       G              G               M-1, M-2
Community     N        8              32              All             N
Directional   N        8              32              All             N
Flag          N        N/A            (See below)     All             Y
                                      K
Institutional Y        6              32              All             N
Monument      Y        (See below)    (See below)     C-1, C-2, C-3,  Y
                       L              L               M-1, M-2
Nameplate     N        2              2               All             N
Notice        N        6              32              All             N
Pole          Y        (See below) J  (See below) J   (See below) J   Y
Political     N        6              32              All             N
Public        N        4              4               All             N
necessity
Real estate   N        (See below)    (See below)     All             N
                       N              N
Snipe signs   N        (See below)    20              All             N
Suspended     N        2              3               All             N
Temporary     N        (See below)    (See below)     All             N
                       P              P
                                      Max area is 15%
                       Top of         of the square   C-1, C-2, C-3,
Wall          Y        building wall  footage of a    M-1, M-2        Y
                                      single wall
                                      surface
Warning       N        4              16              All             N
Wind          N        8              16              C-1, C-2, C-3,  N
                                                      M-1, M-2
Window        Y        (See below)    (See below)     All             N
                       R              R
 
   (C)   Regardless of type, height, and area, all signs in the city shall
comply with the following.
      (1)   All signs erected in the city shall comply with all building,
electrical, fire, and other such relevant codes as may be in effect at the time
the permit is issued.
      (2)   All signs are required to maintain appropriate vertical and
horizontal clearances as may be required by any public utility company.
      (3)   No building permits will be issued for signs that involve
electrical wiring or connections unless designed/built by a licensed electrical
contractor, nor shall any building permit be issued for a sign unless the
required drawings are prepared by, and stamped by, a licensed structural
engineer.
      (4)   Any sign which has a foundation and/or footing requires a building
permit, regardless of its designation on table in division (B) above.
      (5)   Any sign, regardless of type, which has lighting, shall be subject
to the following standards:
         (a)   No lighting shall be permitted which penetrates beyond the
property in a manner which constitutes a nuisance.
         (b)   Signs may be unlit, externally lit, internally lit or backlit.
Additionally, any lighting must be directed so only the face of the sign is
illuminated.
         (c)   Internally illuminated signs, also known as cabinet signs, shall
use semi-opaque materials for sign text and logos such that the lighting is
diffused. Transparent or clear materials are not allowed.
         (d)   Backlit signs may not have a visible light source. They shall
only allow indirect illumination to emanate from the sign.
         (e)   Externally illuminated signs must be aimed and shielded so that
the light is directed only onto the sign face.
         (f)   Regardless of the source or type of illumination, the aggregate
output of the lighting shall not exceed 500 lumens or 13.94 foot-candles per
square foot of sign area, as measured at the property line closest to the sign.
      (6)   No sign shall be placed, built, or located, nor shall any sign
exist, in a manner which creates a nuisance, safety hazard, or other unsafe
condition.
      (7)   When in proximity to traffic signals, street intersections, or
traffic signs, no sign shall be designed similar to such traffic signs or
signals, and shall not be permitted to use words which may reasonably create
confusion as to the nature and purpose of the sign.
      (8)   Any sign placed at any intersection throughout the city shall be
placed outside of the sight triangle (25 feet by 25 feet at the corner) area to
not create a traffic hazard.
      (9)   No sign over two feet high shall be permitted in the line of sight
triangle (seven feet by 50 feet) next to driveway entrances.
      (10)   Changeable copy and/or electronic message portions of the sign may
change more than once per eight seconds.
      (11)   When more than one sign is proposed for a commercial or industrial
project, a developer shall submit a plan for the overall placement and design
of all signs throughout the development, except for those which are attached to
buildings. Developers shall present a sign proposal demonstrating a consistent
theme throughout the project signage. The Planning Commission shall review the
sign proposal as part of the site plan review.
      (12)   With the exception of billboard signs, off-premise advertising is
strictly prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   Awning signs shall be limited to single-story buildings or to
the first level of multi-story buildings.
      (2)   Awning signs shall be placed over a doorway, window, or walkway.
      (3)   Awning signs are not allowed on, or above, a sloping or mansard
roof.
      (4)   Awning signs shall not:
         (a)   Extend more than 18 inches on either side of the door, window,
archway, or walkway over which they are located;
         (b)   Project less than two feet, or more than eight feet, from the
wall on which they are anchored; and/or
         (c)   Project above the highest part of the building's vertical wall.
   (E)   New businesses shall be permitted to use a single banner sign during
construction and for no more than six months after receiving final occupancy
and a city business license.
   (F)   (1)   Billboard signs are allowed only on property adjacent to, and
fronting, I-15. Any other existing billboard signs at the adoption of this
subchapter, which otherwise do not create a safety concern, are hereby
grandfathered in and are a legally nonconforming use.
      (2)   Billboard signs must be oriented for freeway viewing, and be within
100 feet of the nearest freeway lane.
      (3)   In any permitted area along I-15, billboards shall not exceed a
height of 60 feet above the grade of the interstate perpendicular to the
billboard. Billboards shall always be allowed at a minimum height of 45 feet.
      (4)   Billboards along the I-15 corridor are limited to 672 square feet.
      (5)   (a)   Billboards must be a minimum of 500 lineal feet from any
other billboard on the same side of a street and 75 lineal feet from any on-
premises sign on or off the same property.
         (b)   Billboards may be located within the 75-foot buffer of an on-
premises sign when set back from the front property line 20 feet or more,
measured to the closest edge of the billboard. In no case shall a billboard be
located within the 75-foot buffer of an on-premises sign and be closer to the
front property line than the on-premises sign.
         (c)   Billboards shall be set back from any on-premises sign at least
six feet measured from the closest edge of each sign face.
      (6)   No billboard shall be closer than two feet to a front property
line, measured to the closest edge of the billboard.
      (7)   A building permit may be issued for a billboard; however, prior to
scheduling the first inspection for the billboard, applicants shall be required
to provide the city with a letter of approval from the State Department of
Transportation stating that the billboard meets their requirements for the I-15
corridor.
   (G)   Canopy signs shall only be permitted in gas/fuel stations over the
gas/fuel islands, subject to the following.
      (1)   The height to the top of the canopy may not exceed 20 feet from
grade, with no more than four feet of height containing fascia.
      (2)   Individual letters, logos, or symbols may not exceed four feet in
height or project out from the canopy's surface more than 18 inches.
      (3)   This does not limit the ability to have a monument or other sign
wherein gas/fuel prices may be displayed.
   (H)   Regulations for community signs are as follows:
      (1)   May be located at a variety of locations throughout the city, with
the written permission of the property owner;
      (2)   May not be attached to another temporary, traffic, or business
sign;
      (3)   May be part of the city's annual rotating events, such as West
Haven Days, cultural arts events, holidays, or changes in the seasons;
      (4)   May be located at gateways to the city, at major intersections, and
along major streets;
      (5)   Shall be made of durable, weather-resistant material;
      (6)   Shall be appropriate in size and scale to their location; and
      (7)   Shall be displayed for not more than 30 days.
   (I)   (1)   Written consent of the property owner on which a directional
sign is located shall be presented to the Community Development Director, or
his or her designee, prior to such a sign being erected.
      (2)   Directional signs shall be removed either two years from the time
the first building permit in the subdivision is issued, or upon the sale of the
final lot in the subdivision, whichever comes first. An extension may be
granted by the Community Development Director, or his or her designee, if it
can be shown that a substantial number of the lots are not ready for
development or have not sold.
   (J)   (1)   Subject to the regulations contained in this section, pole signs
shall be allowed in commercial/manufacturing zones in the following areas:
         (a)   4000 South, east of the canal located at approximately 3200
West;
         (b)   Commercial and manufacturing zoned properties located within 250
feet of the edge of the right-of-way of the following properties:
            1.   Wilson Lane;
            2.   2100 South;
            3.   1900 West;
            4.   Midland Drive;
            5.   Interstate 15.
         (c)   Pole signs are prohibited in areas not listed above.
      (2)   Pole signs shall have a minimum clearance of ten feet to the bottom
of the lowest cabinet face.
      (3)   Pole signs shall be set back from any adjoining property line one
foot for each foot of the sign's height, including any supporting structures.
      (4)   All support structures must be covered or concealed with pole/pylon
covers which are designed to match the architectural style of the sign and the
commercial buildings it advertises.
      (5)   Pole signs shall be incorporated into a landscaped design or
planter box.
      (6)   No sign may be higher than 25 feet high, as measured from the crown
of the road to the highest point of the sign.
      (7)   No pole sign shall exceed 80 square feet.
      (8)   No sign may extend over a pedestrian or vehicular access area.
      (9)   When more than one pole sign is permitted, they shall be placed a
minimum of 300 feet apart.
      (10)   On-premises signs located within 1,000 feet of I-15 may increase
their height so that the sign is visible not more than 25 feet above the
nearest lane, overpass, sound wall, or other view obstruction, whichever is
highest.
      (11)   Two or more owners of separate, contiguous parcels of real
property may elect to combine the street or highway frontage of their
respective contiguous properties. If such properties are so combined, only one
pole sign may be constructed or erected in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
 Property Frontage (linear feet) Max Number of Signs
                          Property Frontage (linear feet) Max Number of Signs
Pole sign                 0 - 99                          1
                         100 - 299                       1
                         300 - 599                       1
                         600+                            2
Planned commercial center 0 - 399                         1
                         400 - 599                       1
                         600 - 1,200                     2
                         1,200+                          3
 
   (K)   Signs and decorations commonly associated with any national, state, or
local holiday, as well as any faith-based observances and social customs or
causes, shall comply with the following:
      (1)   All such signs/decorations shall be entirely confined to the
property on which they are originally erected.
      (2)   No sign or decoration shall be placed in a manner to cause
confusion with authorized traffic lights and signals.
   (L)   (1)   Monument signs are permitted for any non-residential lot with a
minimum of 30 feet of street frontage. Maximum height includes the height of
the base, which shall be a minimum of one foot, and maximum width includes any
frame or support structure.
 
Property Frontage  Max. Area per Sign Max Height (feet) Max number of Signs
(linear feet)      Face (square feet)
0 - 99             25                 6                 1
100 - 299          50                 8                 1
300 - 599          64                 8                 1
600 - 1,200        80                 8                 2
1,200+             80                 8                 3
 
      (2)   Parcels with two or more street frontages are permitted one sign
per frontage; provided that such signs can be placed a minimum of 100 feet from
each other, measured diagonally across the property.
      (3)   When more than one monument sign is permitted, they shall be placed
a minimum of 300 feet apart.
      (4)   Monument signs may be used to advertise the entrance into a
subdivision, and shall be subject to the same regulations as commercial
monument signs. Regardless of use, monument signs shall be incorporated into a
landscaped design or planter box.
      (5)   Signs shall be set back from any adjacent property line one foot
for each foot of sign height, including any base or supporting structure.
      (6)   Monument signs shall include the numeric street address of the
property upon which it is located. The numbers shall be between nine inches and
15 inches in height.
      (7)   Monument signs shall be setback a minimum of five feet from any
right-of-way line.
   (M)   (1)   For primary and general elections, no political sign may be
placed, or erected, more than 30 days prior to an election, and shall be
removed within 72 hours after the polls have closed. Thirty days does not
include the date of the election.
      (2)   No political sign may be placed within 150 feet of a ballot box or
polling location.
   (N)   For real estate signs announcing the location, availability, and/or
development of a property are allowed, shall be subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   Signs advertising the sale of an individual lot shall be no larger
than 16 square feet in area, with a maximum height of four feet.
      (2)   On residential lots under construction, one sign is allowed
advertising the sale of the lot and one sign is allowed advertising the
developer of the lot.
      (3)   Signs announcing the future development of commercial, industrial,
or residential property shall not exceed 96 square feet in area, with a maximum
height of eight feet which includes the post.
         (a)   One sign per public or private street frontage is permitted.
         (b)   No sign shall be erected prior to approval of the development
plan (subdivision, site plan, and the like) for the property on which the sign
shall be located.
      (4)   Signs announcing an open house on the property where the sign is
located may not exceed 32 square feet in area, with a maximum height of eight
feet. Open house signs may be placed on the subject property no more than 24
hours prior to the open house and shall be removed upon completion of the open
house.
   (O)   (1)   Suspended signs shall not extend beyond the outer edge of the
awning, marquee, canopy, or facade to which they are attached.
      (2)   Suspended signs shall have a minimum eight-foot clearance above the
sidewalk or landscaped area they are over.
      (3)   A minimum of five feet of horizontal distance shall separate
suspended signs.
   (P)   Regardless of the purpose or nature of the sign, all temporary signs
shall comply with the following.
      (1)   Temporary signs shall advertise a specific event or occasion.
      (2)   Temporary signs may be placed no more than 45 days prior to the
event or occasion which they advertise, may remain for the duration of the
event, and shall be removed within 48 hours after the event concludes.
         (a)   In the event a temporary sign is advertising a change of
ownership, it shall be removed within 45 days after the ownership has changed.
         (b)   In the event a temporary sign is advertising a going out of
business/bankruptcy sale, it may so advertise for a period of not longer than
90 days.
   (Q)   More than one wall sign may be erected on a single building; provided,
that no more than seven signs are erected and the total of all such signs does
not exceed the maximum of 15% of the square footage of a single wall surface.
      (1)   When multiple wall signs are erected on a single building, the
design, size, lighting, and other elements of the signs shall blend together to
create a cohesive theme.
      (2)   Wall signs may have a sign on any side with exposure.
      (3)   No wall sign shall project more than 18 inches beyond the wall to
which it is attached.
      (4)   Multi-tenant buildings may use a single wall sign to identify all
business located within the building.
   (R)   Window signs and indoor illuminated signs within 18 inches of the
window shall not occupy more than 25% of the surface area of a single window or
group of windows.
   (S)   Snipe signs are only allowed on fences and trees located on private
property. They may not exceed 20 square feet in size. Snipe signs shall not be
placed within the city easement which is generally six-feet measured from the
edge of the roadway or within the city's right-of-way which is typically one
foot off the back of sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 56.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 7-2003, passed 9-17-
2003; Ord. 36-2021, passed 12-21-2021; Ord. 12-2023, passed 6-21-2023; Ord. 17-
2024, passed 5-15-2024; Ord. 41-2024, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 157.760 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   For any sign which requires a building permit, the following
information shall be submitted as part of the application:
      (1)   A plot plan showing the relationship of any and all proposed signs
to buildings, property lines, setbacks, intersections, easements, and driveway
accesses on the property, as well as properties located within 300 feet of the
property at issue;
      (2)   A scaled drawing showing, where applicable, the color, dimensions,
proposed landscaping, sign materials, type of illumination, and street-view of
the sign(s);
      (3)   Details of sign construction, including any electrical plan and
foundation scheme;
      (4)   Proof of a current city business license;
      (5)   The name, address, and contact information for the business owner,
business operator, and property owner;
      (6)   Contact information for any contractors used on the project; and
      (7)   Value of the sign.
   (B)   If signs are proposed as part of a new commercial site plan, they
shall not be required to obtain a separate sign permit. Review and approval of
the site plan shall constitute approval of the sign(s).
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Community Development Director, or
his or her designee, may require additional information if he or she determines
that the sign requires further review.
   (D)   The party responsible for the sign shall keep a record of any and all
applications submitted and permits issued for the sign, and to present them to
the Community Development Department upon request.
   (E)   The Community Development Department shall maintain such drawings as
may aid a sign applicant in determining how the lighting, area, and placement
of the sign will be calculated.
(Prior Code, § 56.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 7-2003, passed 9-17-
2003; Ord. 36-2021, passed 12-21-2021; Ord. 12-2023, passed 6-21-2023)
§ 157.761 VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of this subchapter shall be enforced by the Community
Development Department. All such violation notices, remedies and procedures for
noncompliance shall follow the City Zoning Code violation ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 56.14) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 7-2003, passed 9-17-
2003; Ord. 33-2019, passed 11-20-2019; Ord. 36-2021, passed 12-21-2021; Ord.
12-2023, passed 6-21-2023)
OUTDOOR LIGHTING
§ 157.775 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide regulations for outdoor
lighting that will:
   (A)   Permit the use of outdoor lighting for nighttime safety, utility,
security, productivity, enjoyment, and commerce;
   (B)   Minimize adverse off-site impacts of lighting, such as light trespass
and obtrusive light;
   (C)   Curtail light pollution, reduce sky glow, and improve the nighttime
environment for astronomy;
   (D)   Help protect the natural environment from the adverse effects of night
lighting from gas or electric sources; and
   (E)   Conserve energy and resources to the greatest extent possible.
(Prior Code, § 57.010) (Ord. 34-2021, passed 11-3-2021)
§ 157.776 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL. Any property zoned Commercial or Manufacturing by the city.
   EMERGENCY CONDITIONS. Generally, lighting only energized during an
emergency; lighting fed from a backup power source; or lighting for
illuminating the path of egress solely during a fire or other emergency; or,
lighting for security purposes used solely during an alarm.
   FULLY SHIELDED. A fixture constructed and installed in such a manner that
all light emitted by the fixture, either directly, or indirectly, by reflection
or refraction from any part of the lighting, is projected below the horizontal
plane through the fixture’s lowest light-emitting part.
   GLARE. Lighting entering the eye directly from fixtures or indirectly from
reflective surfaces that causes reduced visibility.
   GREENBELT. An area of open land around a city on which building is
restricted.
   HOLIDAY OR FESTIVE LIGHTING. Temporary or permanent lighting installed and
operated in connection with holidays or traditions (for example, LED lighting
systems, LED miniatures, or C-7 or C-9 bulbs). Floodlights for the purpose of
illuminating a display that does not trespass on adjoining properties.
   LAMP. A generic term for a source of optical radiation (for example, light),
often called a BULB or TUBE. Examples include incandescent, fluorescent, or
high-intensity discharge (HID) lamps and low-pressure sodium (LPS) lamps, and
light-emitting diode (LED) modules and arrays.
   LANDSCAPE LIGHTING. Lighting of trees, shrubs, or other plant material and
ponds, and other landscape features.
   LIGHT POLLUTION. Any adverse effect of artificial light including, but not
limited to, glare, light trespass, sky glow, compromised safety and security,
and impacts on the nocturnal environment.
   LIGHT TRESPASS. Light that falls upon any adjacent property(s).
   LIGHTING. Electric or human-made, or artificial, lighting.
   LUMEN. The unit of measurement used to quantify light produced by a lamp
(bulb) or emitted from a lighting (as distinct from “watt,” a measure of power
consumption).
   MOUNTING HEIGHT. The height of the photometric center of a lighting above
grade level.
   NEW USE. In Commercial Zones, a NEW USE shall be a change in the business
occupying the primary structure or the issuance of a conditional use permit on
the property. In Residential and Agricultural Zones, a NEW USE is the issuance
of a home occupation license or conditional use permit on the property.
   NONCONFORMING LIGHTING. Lighting legally installed before the date of
enactment of this subchapter but not conforming to the provisions of this
subchapter.
   OUTDOOR LIGHTING. Lighting equipment installed within the property line and
outside the building envelopes, whether attached to poles, building structures,
the earth, or any other location; and any associated lighting-control
equipment.
   PARTLY SHIELDED. A fixture with an opaque top and translucent or perforated
sides designed to emit most light downward.
   SHIELDED DIRECTIONAL FIXTURE. A fixture that includes an adjustable mounting
device allowing aiming in any direction and contains a shield, louver, or
baffle to reduce direct view of the lamp.
   SIGN. Advertising, directional, or other outdoor promotional display of art,
words, and/or pictures.
   SKY GLOW. The brightening of the nighttime sky that results from scattering
and reflection of artificial light by moisture and dust particles in the
atmosphere. SKY GLOW is caused by light directed or reflected upwards or
sideways, and reduces one’s ability to view the night sky.
   TEMPORARY LIGHTING. Lighting installed and operated for periods not to
exceed 60 days, completely removed and not operated again for at least 30 days.
   TRANSLUCENT. Allowing light to pass through, diffusing it so objects beyond
cannot be seen clearly (not transparent or clear).
   UNSHIELDED. A fixture capable of emitting light in any direction, including
downwards, or does not include a shield, louver, or baffle to reduce direct
view of the lamp.
(Prior Code, § 57.020) (Ord. 34-2021, passed 11-3-2021)
§ 157.777 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability. Except as described below, all new outdoor lighting
installed after the date of effect of this subchapter shall comply with these
requirements. The following are not regulated by this subchapter:
      (1)   Lighting within the public rights-of-way or easement for the
principal purpose of illuminating state- or federally-controlled highways;
      (2)   Lighting for public monuments, statuary, and flagpoles;
      (3)   Lighting solely for signs;
      (4)   Temporary lighting for theatrical, television, performance areas,
and construction sites;
      (5)   Low-output light source that is equal to, or less than, 800 lumens
or 60 watts (see lumen conversion chart in § 157.785);
      (6)   Underwater lighting in swimming pools and other water features;
      (7)   Lighting only used under emergency conditions; for example, mobile
lighting;
      (8)   Lighting specified or identified in a specific use permit;
      (9)   Temporary lighting for civic events at any time;
      (10)   Lighting required for the safe takeoff and landing of aircraft;
      (11)   Agricultural lighting (lighting for greenbelt agricultural use);
      (12)   Holiday or festive outdoor lighting for residential uses; provided
that the lighting does not create a hazard or glare nuisance; and
      (13)   Motion sensor-controlled light sources with, or without, an
integrated camera system; a motion-controlled artificial light source; provided
it complies with the following:
         (a)   The motion sensor is set to turn the artificial light source off
five minutes after the last detection of motion;
         (b)   Lighting shall not be triggered by any activity outside the
property boundary; and
         (c)   The artificial light source is sufficiently shielded in a manner
that prevents light trespass.
   (B)   Prohibited installations.
      (1)   Outdoor neon lighting;
      (2)   Permanent searchlights and aerial lasers;
      (3)   Mercury vapor fixtures or lamps;
      (4)   Outdoor wall pack-style fixtures, unless fully shielded or designed
in such a way that the light shall not constitute a light trespass;
      (5)   Translucent lens, barn light-style fixtures; and
      (6)   Flashing, blinking, intermittent lights that move or give the
impression of movement, other than holiday or festive lighting installations.
(Prior Code, § 57.030) (Ord. 34-2021, passed 11-3-2021) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.778 COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-RESIDENTIAL LIGHTING.
   Outdoor lighting for all new construction of non-residential properties, and
multiple residential properties of eight dwellings or more with common outdoor
areas, including recreation/mobile home parks, and multi-area camp sites, shall
comply with this section.
   (A)   Fixture shielding.
      (1)   All fixtures shall be fully shielded and installed so that no light
is emitted above a horizontal plane passing through the lowest portion of the
lamp.
      (2)   Examples which are graphically depicted are seen in §
157.784.
   (B)   Mounting height limit. The height of pole-mounted fixtures shall not
exceed 30 feet above grade.
   (C)   Light trespass standard.
      (1)   All light fixtures, including motion-sensing fixtures and security
lighting, shall be aimed and shielded so the direct illumination shall be
confined to the property boundaries of the source, including any public or
private street or road.
      (2)   Motion-sensing light fixtures shall be adjusted according to the
manufacturer’s instructions to turn off no more than five minutes after
detected motion ceases.
      (3)   The light trespassing standard may be attained by light fixture
design, building design, or other site design features such as fencing, walls,
landscaping, or other screening, examples of which are graphically depicted in
§
157.784.
   (D)   Lighting controls.
      (1)   (a)   Outdoor lighting reduction shall be at 11:00 p.m. or one hour
after the close of business, whichever is later.
         (b)   After such time, total outdoor brightness (measured in lumens)
shall be reduced by at least 50% or turned off.
      (2)   Lighting reductions are not required for the following:
         (a)   Outdoor lighting where only one single fixture exists on the
entire property;
         (b)   Lighting required by code for steps, stairs, walkways, and
building entrances;
         (c)   Lighting for outdoor recreational facilities is allowed one hour
prior to sunset and until 11:00 p.m., unless needed to complete a specific
organized activity authorized by the city, or an event already in progress;
         (d)   Lighting governed by a special use permit in which times of
operation are specifically identified; and
         (e)   Where lighting levels must be maintained for safety reasons or
special events authorized by the city.
(Prior Code, § 57.040) (Ord. 34-2021, passed 11-3-2021) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.779 RESIDENTIAL LIGHTING; NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   Outdoor lighting for all new construction residential properties, and
multiple-residential properties of seven dwellings or less not having common
outdoor areas, shall comply with this section.
   (A)   Fixture shielding. All fixtures shall be shielded and installed so
that no light is emitted so as to cause light trespassing onto adjoining
properties examples of which are graphically depicted in §
157.783.
   (B)   Mounting height limit. The height of pole mounted fixtures shall not
exceed 20 feet above grade.
   (C)   Light trespass standard.
      (1)   All light emitted or directed by reflecting or refracting optics in
a fixture shall not be directly visible from equal grade on any other property
when measured on a horizontal line passing through the lowest point in the
fixture.
      (2)   Motion sensing light fixtures shall be adjusted according to the
manufacturer’s instructions to turn off no more than ten minutes after detected
motion ceases.
      (3)   The light trespassing standard may be attained by light fixture
design, building design, or other site design features such as fencing, walls,
landscaping, or other screening, examples of which are graphically depicted in
§
157.784.
   (D)   Landscape lighting. Lighting shall not shine onto adjacent properties
and shall be shielded.
   (E)   Lighting controls. Recreational lighting shall be off by 10:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 57.050) (Ord. 34-2021, passed 11-3-2021) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.780 EXISTING LIGHTING; COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL.
   Lighting installed prior to the effective date of this subchapter shall
comply with:
   (A)   Ten year waiver of compliance for commercial outdoor lighting.
      (1)   Ten years from the enactment date of this subchapter, all
commercial lighting shall comply with this subchapter; and
      (2)   Outdoor lighting existing on the effective date of this subchapter
that does not meet the requirements, as set forth herein, shall be brought into
compliance or removed as follows: within 90 days of a complaint, in all other
cases.
   (B)   Nonconforming residential outdoor lighting. Outdoor lighting existing
on the effective date of this subchapter that does not meet the requirements,
as set forth herein, shall be brought into compliance or removed as follows:
      (1)   Within two weeks of a complaint, where redirection of the light
fixture is feasible and will bring the light fixture into compliance; or
      (2)   Within 30 days of a complaint, in all other cases.
   (C)   Compliance methods. Outdoor lighting not meeting the standards shall
be brought into compliance in any of the following ways:
      (1)   Redirection of the light fixture;
      (2)   Shielding of the light fixture;
      (3)   Redesign or relocation of the light fixture;
      (4)   Replacement of the light fixture with a conforming light fixture;
or
      (5)   Removal of the light fixture.
   (D)   Replaced or expanded. When a lighting fixture is expanded or replaced,
it shall be brought into conformance with this subchapter; and
   (E)   New uses. Whenever there is a new use of a property, all outdoor
lighting on the property shall be brought into compliance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 57.060) (Ord. 34-2021, passed 11-3-2021)
§ 157.781 SPECIAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Recreational lighting.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall review new recreational lighting
plans for fields, courts, pools, tracks, or ranges.
      (2)   Lighting for recreational play in Residential Zones shall conform
to those standards referred to in the International Residential Code.
   (B)   High intensity and special purpose lighting. The following lighting
systems are prohibited from being installed or used except by a temporary
special permit authorized by the city:
      (1)   Temporary lighting in which any single light fixture exceeds 20,000
initial lumens or the lighting load exceeds 160,000 lumens;
      (2)   Aerial lasers;
      (3)   Searchlights; and
      (4)   Other very intense lighting defined as having a light source
exceeding 200,000 initial lumens an intensity in any direction of more than
2,000,000 candelas.
   (C)   Nonconforming or complex uses. Upon special permit issued by the city,
lighting not complying with the technical requirements of this subchapter, but
consistent with its intent, may be installed for complex sites or uses, or
special uses including, but not limited to, the following applications:
      (1)   Sports facilities, including, but not limited to, unconditioned
rinks, open courts, fields, and stadiums;
      (2)   Construction lighting;
      (3)   Lighting for industrial sites having special requirements;
      (4)   Parking structures;
      (5)   Urban parks;
      (6)   Ornamental and architectural lighting of bridges, public monuments,
statuary, and public buildings; and
      (7)   Theme and amusement parks.
   (D)   Special permit process.
      (1)   To obtain a special permit, applicants shall demonstrate that the
proposed lighting installation:
         (a)   Mitigates the effects of light on the environment and
surrounding properties to comply with the purpose of this subchapter, and
supported by a signed statement describing the mitigation measures; and
         (b)   Uses controls to reduce lighting at a project-specific time as
defined in the permit.
      (2)   (a)   The city shall review each application.
         (b)   A special permit may be granted if, upon review, the city
believes the proposed lighting will not create unwarranted glare, sky glow, or
light trespass.
(Prior Code, § 57.070) (Ord. 34-2021, passed 11-3-2021) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.782 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation of this subchapter that results in light trespass or an
unreasonable interference with the common and usual use of neighboring property
is declared to be a public nuisance and is prohibited by this subchapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this lighting subchapter shall be regulated and
enforced under §§
90.01 through
90.05.
(Prior Code, § 57.080) (Ord. 34-2021, passed 11-3-2021) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.783 EXAMPLES OF LIGHT SHIELDING.
[IMAGE]
(Prior Code, § 57.090) (Ord. 34-2021, passed 11-3-2021)
§ 157.784 EXAMPLES OF LIGHT TRESPASSING.
[IMAGE]
(Prior Code, § 57.100) (Ord. 34-2021, passed 11-3-2021)
§ 157.785 LUMEN CONVERSION CHART.
[IMAGE]
(Prior Code, § 57.110) (Ord. 34-2021, passed 11-3-2021)
MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS
§ 157.800 BUSINESS REQUIRING ACCESS.
   Service stations, roadside stands, public parking lots, and all other
businesses requiring motor vehicle access shall meet the requirements as
hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 58.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.801 ROADWAYS AND CURBS.
   Access to the station or other structure or parking lot shall be controlled
as follows.
   (A)   Access shall be by not more than two roadways for each 100 feet, or
fraction thereof, of frontage on any street.
   (B)   No two of said roadways shall be closer to each other than 12 feet;
and no roadway shall be closer to a side property line than three feet.
   (C)   Each roadway shall be not more than 36 feet in width for roadside
stands, public parking lots, and all other businesses requiring motor vehicle
access, except service stations in Commercial Zones and uses in Manufacturing
Zones may have a maximum width of 50 feet.
   (D)   No roadway shall be closer than 20 feet to the point of intersection
of two property lines at any street corner.
   (E)   In all cases where there is an existing curb and gutter, or sidewalk,
on the street, the applicant for a permit shall provide a safety island along
the entire frontage of the property, except for permitted roadways. Concrete
curbs shall be constructed and height, location, and structural specifications
shall be approved by the City Engineer.
   (F)   Where there is no existing curb and gutter, or sidewalk, the applicant
shall install such safety island and curb, or, in place thereof, construct
along the entire length of the property line, except in front of the permitted
roadways, a curb, fence, or pipe rail not exceeding two feet or less than eight
inches in height.
(Prior Code, § 58.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.802 LOCATION OF GASOLINE PUMPS.
   Gasoline pumps shall be set back not less than 18 feet from any street line
to which the pump island is vertical and 12 feet from any street line to which
the pump island is parallel, and not less than ten feet from a Residential or
Agricultural Zone boundary line; if the pump island is set at an angle on the
property, it shall be so located that automobiles stopped for service will not
extend over the property line. (See § 157.637 for more restrictive
requirement.)
(Prior Code, § 58.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.803 LOCATION OF SERVICE STATION CANOPIES.
   Service station canopies may extend into the required front yard of a
service station site to cover pump islands and the adjacent vehicle service
areas; provided such canopies are located not closer than five feet to the
front property line.
(Prior Code, § 58.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
§ 157.815 MAINTENANCE PERMITTED.
   A nonconforming building or structure may be maintained.
(Prior Code, § 60.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.816 REPAIRS, ALTERATIONS.
   Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a nonconforming use. Any
nonconforming building, or portion thereof, declared unsafe by the Building
Inspector may be strengthened or restored to a safe condition.
(Prior Code, § 60.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.817 ADDITIONS AND ENLARGEMENTS.
   (A)   A building or structure nonconforming as to use regulations shall not
be added to or enlarged in any manner, unless such building or structure,
including such additions and enlargements, is made to conform to all the
regulations of the zone in which it is located.
   (B)   A building or structure nonconforming as to height, area, or yard
regulations shall not be added to, or enlarged, in any manner unless such
addition and enlargement conforms to all the regulations of the zone in which
it is located.
(Prior Code, § 60.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.818 ALTERATION WHERE PARKING INSUFFICIENT.
   A building or structure lacking sufficient automobile parking space in
connection therewith, as required by this subchapter, may be altered or
enlarged; provided, additional automobile parking space is supplied to meet the
requirements of this subchapter for such alteration or enlargement.
(Prior Code, § 60.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.819 MOVING NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS.
   No nonconforming building or structure shall be moved, in whole or in part,
to any other location on the lot, except by permit of the Board of Adjustment
as herein provided, unless every portion of such building or structure is made
to conform to all regulations of the zone in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 60.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.820 RESTORATION OF DAMAGED BUILDINGS.
   A nonconforming building or structure which is damaged, partially destroyed
by fire, flood, wind, earthquake, or other calamity, or act of God or the
public enemy, may be restored, and the occupancy or use of such building,
structure, or part thereof, which existed at the time of such partial
destruction may be continued or resumed; provided, that such restoration is
started within a period of 180 days and is diligently prosecuted to completion.
(Prior Code, § 60.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.821 ONE-YEAR VACANCY OR ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   A building or structure, or portion thereof, nonconforming as to use
which is, or hereafter becomes, vacant and remains unoccupied for a continuous
period of 180 days, except for dwellings and buildings to house animals and
fowl, shall not thereafter be occupied except by a use which conforms to the
use regulations of the zone in which it is located.
   (B)   Wherever a nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of 180
days, such use shall not thereafter be re-established, and any future use shall
be in conformance with the provisions of this subchapter. Any building,
structure, or use for which a valid building permit has been issued and actual
construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of this subchapter
may be completed and used in accordance with the plans, specifications, and
permit on which said building permit was granted. ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby
defined to be: The actual placing of construction materials in their permanent
position, fastened in a permanent manner, actual work in excavating a basement,
or the demolition or removal of an existing structure begun preparatory to
rebuilding; provided, that in all cases, actual construction work shall be
diligently carried on until the completion of the building or structure
involved.
(Prior Code, § 60.14) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.822 CONTINUATION OF USE.
   The nonconforming use of a building or structure, existing at the time this
subchapter became effective, may be continued.
(Prior Code, § 60.16) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.823 OCCUPATION WITHIN ONE YEAR.
   A vacant nonconforming building or structure may be occupied by a use for
which the building or structure was designed or intended if so occupied within
a period of 180 days after the building or structure became nonconforming.
(Prior Code, § 60.18) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.824 CHANGE OF USE.
   Except by permit of the Board of Adjustment, as provided in §§
157.035 through
157.048, the nonconforming use of a building or structure may not be changed
except to a conforming use; but where such change is made to a conforming use,
the use shall not thereafter be changed back to a nonconforming use.
(Prior Code, § 60.20) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.825 EXPANSION OF USE PERMITTED.
   A nonconforming use may be extended to include the entire floor area of the
existing building in which it was conducted at the time the use became
nonconforming; provided, however, that a certificate of occupancy be first
obtained for such extension of use.
(Prior Code, § 60.22) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.826 NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND.
   The nonconforming use of land, or a portion thereof, existing at the time
this subchapter became effective may be continued. No such nonconforming use of
land shall, in any way, be expanded or extended either on the same or adjoining
property; and, provided that if such nonconforming use of land, or any portion
thereof, is abandoned or changed, any future use of such land shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 60.24) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 157.840 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Mobile Home Park Ordinance of West
Haven, Utah.”
(Prior Code, § 62.02.010) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.841 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This subchapter is designed, and enacted, and for the purpose of providing
regulations for the construction and operation of mobile home parks and
overnight trailer parks, and the use of mobile homes and trailers in the city
in order to promote, protect, and secure the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 62.02.020) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.842 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AWNING. Any shade structure of approved material installed, erected, or used
adjoining or adjacent to a trailer coach, and which is completely open on at
least two sides. A side may be interpreted to be an “end.”
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, fowl, chattels, or property of any kind. For the purpose of
this subchapter, BUILDING shall also include a tent and tent-house.
   CABANA. Any portable, demountable structure, room, enclosure, or other
building erected, constructed, or placed on any trailer site within ten feet of
any trailer coach on the same site in a trailer park, and used for human
habitation. CABANA does not include awning or ramada.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department and/or State
Department of Health.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and
a bathtub or shower built in as an integral part thereof.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME SPACE. A mobile home space for dependent mobile homes
which has neither sewerage nor water connections provided for the use by
independent mobile homes, nor toilet or bathing facilities as an integral part
thereof for the sole use of the occupancy of that space.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Director of the County Health Department, or any member
of his or her staff authorized to represent him or her.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home that has a toilet and a bathtub or
shower built in as an integral part of its equipment, and which facilities are
useable and in good working order.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME SPACE. A mobile home space on which is provided
water and sewerage facilities for connections to independent mobile homes which
are maintained in good working order, or which has constructed thereon a
building with toilet and bathing facilities therein for the sole use of the
occupants of the mobile home that occupies that space.
   INSPECTOR. Building Inspector of the city.
   LICENSE DIRECTOR. License Director of the city.
   MOBILE HOME. A moveable living unit designed to be transported after
fabrications on its own wheels, attached wheels, or low boy, suitable for year-
round occupancy and containing a flush toilet, sleeping accommodations, a tub
or shower-bath, kitchen facilities, plumbing, and electrical connections
provided for attachment to appropriate external systems. Pre-sectionalized
modular or prefabricated housing not placed on a permanent foundation shall be
classified as a MOBILE HOME whether or not such units meet the city building
and housing codes. A MOBILE HOME, as defined herein, which meets the city’s
applicable building and housing codes for a dwelling and which is placed on a
permanent foundation shall be classified as a dwelling and shall be controlled
by the zoning ordinance of the city the same as a dwelling constructed in the
conventional manner.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate,
for living purposes, two or more automobile trailers, or mobile homes on a
permanent or semi-permanent basis.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for
the use or occupancy of one mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME STAND. The portion of a mobile home space designed for the
location of a mobile home and all accessory structures, cabanas, and the like,
or other add-on enclosed space at least ten feet wide and 45 feet long.
   NUISANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any public nuisance as defined by the laws of the state;
      (2)   Whatever is dangerous to human life or is detrimental to health, or
which may create a fire hazard;
      (3)   The overcrowding of any room or mobile home to a degree which will
limit the cubic footage of available air space to less than 300 cubic feet per
person for permanent or semi-permanent occupancy;
      (4)   Insufficient ventilation or illumination of any room or mobile
home;
      (5)   Inadequate or unsanitary sewage disposal or public facilities; and/
or
      (6)   Whatever renders air, food, or drink unwholesome or detrimental to
the health of human beings.
   OVERNIGHT TRAILER PARK. Any area or tract of land used or designed to
accommodate, for living or sleeping purposes, two or more automobile travel
trailers, campers, tents, and the like, on an overnight or transient bases.
   RAMADA. Any roof or shade structure installed, erected, or used above a
mobile home and site, or any portion thereof.
   SERVICE BUILDING. A building housing the following facilities for public use
and/or use of all occupants within a mobile home park: laundry equipment and
facilities, janitorial closet, and toilet and bathing facilities for both men
and women.
(Prior Code, § 62.02.030) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.843 MOBILE HOME PERMIT AND APPLICATION TO CONSTRUCT OR IMPROVE.
   (A)   Mobile home park construction or improvement. It is unlawful for any
person to construct, enlarge, alter, improve, or convey any mobile home park or
to improve any lands for use as a mobile home park, or to cause the same to be
done, unless such person holds a valid and existing permit issued for the
performance of such work by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 62.04.010)
   (B)   Permit procedure; building code. The procedures prescribed by the
Uniform Building Code as adopted by the city and as amended from time to time,
insofar as applicable and appropriate, are applicable to, and shall be followed
in applying for, permits for the construction, alteration, enlargement,
improvement, and the like of mobile home parks, except as specifically
otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 62.04.020)
   (C)   Application; plot plan approval.
      (1)   In addition to other matters required to be submitted with an
application for a building permit for a mobile home park, there shall be
submitted with the application a complete plot plan drawn to scale which shall
show the area and dimensions of the mobile home park; the number, location, and
size of all mobile home spaces; the location, width, and arrangements of
roadways and walkways; the location of service buildings and other proposed
structures; the location of water and sewer lines; and the location and manner
of protection for the playground area.
      (2)   The Inspector shall immediately transmit the plot plan to the
Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall promptly review the same,
and if it shall appear therefrom that the plan complies with all applicable
ordinances and regulations, that the means provided for access from mobile home
spaces, play areas, and service buildings to roadways and public thoroughfares,
and that the means of ingress and egress to, and from, public thoroughfares are
so arranged as to make reasonable provision for the safety of users, it shall
endorse its approval thereon and return the same to the Inspector. The Planning
Commission may also, in its discretion, submit recommendations for the
improvement of said plot plan, which will improve the economy, convenience, or
efficiency of the use thereof, but such recommendations shall not be binding.
If the Planning Commission shall find that said plan does not comply with
applicable ordinances and regulations, or that the arrangement thereof does not
provide for the safety and protection of the users, it shall disapprove said
plan and return it to the Inspector with a statement in writing as to it’s
reasons for disapproval. No permit shall be issued if the Planning Commission
disapproves said plot plan.
(Prior Code, § 62.04.030)
   (D)   Mobile home park permit fee. A fee for each mobile home park
construction permit shall be paid to the City Recorder at the time of the
filing of the application, therefore. The said fee shall be in addition to all
other buildings, electrical, plumbing, and other fees required for work
included in the mobile home park. This fee shall be in accordance with the West
Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule. The West Haven City Consolidated Fee
Schedule is hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 62.04.040)
   (E)   Denial of permit; review. Any person, firm, or corporation whose
application for a permit under the provisions of this section has been denied
by the Inspector may have said denial reviewed by the City Council upon filing
with the Inspector a written request therefor within ten days after notice of
such denial. Such written request shall specify with reasonable particularity
the grounds on which the applicant relies for a reversal of the Inspector’s
denial of the permit. The City Council may from time to time establish,
promulgate, alter, and amend administrative rules and regulations providing the
procedure for the conduct upon the hearing of such review.
(Prior Code, § 62.04.050)
   (F)   Unlawful to vary from approved plans and specifications. It is
unlawful for any person to do any work in and about the construction,
alteration, repair, improvement, or enlargement of any mobile home court or any
structure thereon for which a permit is required, which varies in any
substantial particular from the approved plans and specifications submitted
with the application for such permit, and which were approved and on which the
permit issued is, or was, based.
(Prior Code, § 62.04.060)
   (G)   Site, space, and general layout. It is unlawful to establish, build,
or construct any mobile home court except on a well-drained site so located
that drainage therefrom will not endanger any public culinary or domestic water
supply. It is unlawful to establish, construct, or build any mobile home park
except in an area free from marshes, swamps, and other potential breeding
places for insects or rodents.
(Prior Code, § 62.04.070)
(Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 26-2023, passed 1-3-2024) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.844 LICENSING.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to operate, maintain, or offer for use any mobile home park without
first making application to the City Recorder and obtaining a license to do so.
(Prior Code, § 62.06.010)
   (B)   Application for issuance of license.
      (1)   No new application for a license shall be considered until the plan
for such use shall have first been approved by the Planning Commission and a
certificate of occupancy has been issued as required by the zoning ordinance,
and no such license shall be issued until such approval has been obtained. Any
license issued without such approval shall be null and void. Each applicant, in
making application for a license, shall specify the exact number of mobile home
spaces which shall be offered for use.
      (2)   Where any mobile home spaces shall be offered for use, the
applicant shall also specify the exact number of which shall be for dependent
and/or independent mobile home spaces. Each license issued shall bear on its
face the exact number of such dependent and independent mobile home spaces for
which the license is issued. Any enlargement, increase in capacity, or
modification of an existing use shall be construed to be a new application for
the purpose of this regulation, and no existing license shall be modified and
no building permit for such enlargement, increase in capacity, or modification
shall be issued until the application for the same shall be approved by the
Planning Commission as required for a new application. Licenses for existing
uses may be modified for increased use or expansion during the license year,
but such license shall show thereon the additional facilities provided.
(Prior Code, § 62.06.020)
(Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.845 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Duty of caretaker. It shall be the duty of the operator and/or
caretaker to call to the attention of the proper law enforcement officers any
violation of any or all laws, ordinances, and regulations relating to fire,
safety, and health.
(Prior Code, § 62.08.010)
   (B)   Daily register required. Every licensee of such premises shall keep a
daily register of all tenants of such premises, which register shall be
available at all times during the year thereafter for inspection by any
authorized person of the city. Such register shall contain:
      (1)   Names and addresses of each guest;
      (2)   Date and time of arrival;
      (3)   Mobile home unit to which assigned;
      (4)   Automobile make and state registration license number;
      (5)   Mobile home license number and manufacturer’s name, if any;
      (6)   Destination; and
      (7)   Date and time of departure.
(Prior Code, § 62.08.020)
   (C)   Display of license. Each current license issued in connection with
uses stated herein shall be displayed in some public place on the premises to
which it is applicable.
(Prior Code, § 62.08.030)
   (D)   Official inspection. The premises and appurtenant facilities of any
mobile home park shall be open to inspection by public officials at all times.
(Prior Code, § 62.08.040)
   (E)   Operator’s responsibility to maintain an orderly place. The operator
of any use is hereby required to maintain order on the premises and shall
conduct his or her business in an orderly and wholesome manner, and he or she
shall not permit nuisances to be created or continued.
(Prior Code, § 62.08.050)
   (F)   Miscellaneous laws, ordinances, and regulations. In addition to the
requirements as set forth in this subchapter, all uses shall be established and
constructed in compliance with all existing state and local statutes,
ordinances, codes, and regulations, including the rules and regulations of the
County Health Department and/or State Department of Health, local county and
state law enforcement agencies, and the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 62.08.060)
   (G)   Time for compliance. Any person or persons now operating a MOBILE HOME
PARK, as defined in §
157.842, shall conform to all of the provisions of this subchapter within 90
days after the effective date hereof, except that the provisions of division
(H) below shall be complied with within one year of the effective date hereof;
provided that where physical limitations exist, that would preclude the
possibility of such compliance, as determined by the Building and Zoning
Inspector, the City Council may waive or modify such compliance after reviewing
and according to the recommendation of the Planning Commission on such uses
established prior to the effective date of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 62.08.070)
   (H)   Signs. All signs shall be in accordance with requirements of
Commercial Zone C-1, §
157.292, and under permit as provided for therein.
(Prior Code, § 62.08.080)
   (I)   Enclosure of a mobile home court. A wall or fence not less than four
feet, nor more than six feet, in height, or a uniformly-maintained compact
evergreen hedge, shall be erected and maintained along boundaries of a mobile
home court; said wall or fence shall be of wood, concrete, brick, or other
masonry construction, or may be of a chain link metal construction provided an
evergreen hedge is also planted. Where in the opinion of the Planning
Commission it is unreasonable to require the construction of a fence, wall, or
hedge, the Commission may waive or modify the requirements, as specified in
this division (I). No such wall, opaque fence, or planting shall be so placed
as to create a traffic hazard. No obstruction to view in excess of two feet in
height shall be placed on any street corner.
(Prior Code, § 62.08.090)
(Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.846 SPECIAL LIMITATIONS AND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Construction.
      (1)   No habitation or shelter, or storage facility constructed of sacks,
rags, brush, cans, weeds, or refuse material, or any combination of the
foregoing, shall be permitted, and it shall be the duty of the owner or
operator where such construction exists to have the same demolished and removed
from the premises.
      (2)   Any portion of or appendage, or any habitation, shelter, or storage
facility as permitted herein, shall be in compliance with the Building Code of
the city as determined by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 62.10.010)
   (B)   Keeping of pets. Household pets shall be permitted subject to any
other ordinance regulating the licensing of same. No dogs shall be permitted to
run at-large.
(Prior Code, § 62.10.020)
   (C)   Location of mobile homes, manufactured homes, travel trailers, motor
homes, and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   No occupied mobile home shall be located on any property within the
city except in a licensed mobile/manufactured home park. No occupied
manufactured home shall be located on any property within the city except in an
approved manufactured home subdivision, manufactured home PRUD, or licensed
mobile/manufactured home park.
      (2)   Emergency or temporary parking of an unoccupied mobile or
manufactured home outside of a licensed mobile/manufactured home park, or a
mobile home or manufactured home sales area, may be permitted for a period not
to exceed 24 hours.
      (3)   Travel trailers, motor homes, and recreational vehicles which do
not include facilities necessary to be a mobile or MANUFACTURED HOME, as
defined in §
157.842, of the city, shall not be used on any property in the city at any time
for living quarters, except in designated camping areas, approved trailer
courts, recreational vehicle parks, or as otherwise permitted by the zoning
ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 62.10.030)
   (D)   Overcrowding prohibited. It shall be unlawful to allow any mobile home
to occupy space within a mobile home park which has not been developed as a
mobile home space with all required facilities.
(Prior Code, § 62.10.040)
   (E)   Construction on mobile home spaces. No building or structure shall be
erected, altered, used, or occupied in connection with the use of a mobile
home, or any mobile home space, except as follows:
      (1)   On any mobile home space, the following shall be permitted;
provided that such space has sufficient area and width to provide the yard
space between such facilities and the boundary of the mobile home space as
required in §
157.277.
         (a)   Cabana or other enclosed add-on space open canopy, roof awning,
and covered patio;
         (b)   One private storage building not exceeding 100 square feet in
total floor area; and
         (c)   One general purpose room not exceeding 100 square feet in total
floor area for the housing of private laundry facilities and for toilet and
bathing facilities for use in connection with mobile homes which would be
classified as dependent without such facilities.
      (2)   Masonry foundation may be provided for any mobile home; provided
that it is so constructed as to provide proper ventilation and to prevent the
harborage of rodents or insects. Skirts or shields may be used where the
removal of wheel is not contemplated; provided that they are fireproof and well
painted, or otherwise preserved.
(Prior Code, § 62.10.050)
(Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.847 SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Disease. It shall be the duty of the operator or caretaker to report
to the Health Officer any person residing in a mobile home park having, or
reasonably suspected of having, any infectious or contagious disease.
(Prior Code, § 62.12.010)
   (B)   Plumbing. All plumbing shall be installed to conform with the
requirements of the Plumbing Code adopted by the city. Each mobile home unit
shall be provided with a connection to an approved water supply, and a
connection for the drain from a kitchen sink and for a toilet, to an approved
sewerage disposal system so as to constitute closed waterproof joints as
required for permanent plumbing.
(Prior Code, § 62.12.020)
   (C)   Rubbish, bedbugs, vermin, and the like. All premises shall be clean
and sanitary, free from all accumulation of debris, filth, rubbish, garbage, or
other offensive matter, and also free from bedbugs roaches, vermin, and
rodents.
(Prior Code, § 62.12.030)
   (D)   Service building. One or more service buildings shall be required in
each mobile home park which provides spaces for dependent mobile home parking.
(Prior Code, § 62.12.040)
   (E)   Service facilities and standards. Each service building shall comply
with the following standards and provide the following minimum facilities.
      (1)   Each service building shall be located at least 15 feet from any
trailer coach space.
      (2)   Each such building shall be of permanent structure, and the
interior thereof and the exterior thereof shall be brightly lighted at all
times.
      (3)   It shall be constructed of moisture-resistant material which will
permit frequent washing and cleaning and disinfecting as necessary without
excessive deterioration.
      (4)   It shall provide not less than one toilet for females, one toilet
for males, one lavatory and shower for each sex for each ten, or fraction
thereof, trailer coach spaces provided for occupancy by dependent trailers, or
which are intended to be accommodated in the trailer court. In any event, it
shall provide not less than two toilets for females, one toilet and one urinal
for males, and one lavatory and shower for each sex;
      (5)   It shall provide not less than one laundry tray and one slop-water
closet with independent entrance, and not less than 50 square feet of outside
clothes-drying space per trailer coach space, with adequate poles and lines
adjacent to the service building. Other clothes-drying facilities of adequate
capacity may be provided in the service building in lieu of outside drying
space;
      (6)   Service buildings shall have adequate heating facilities to
maintain a temperature of 70F during cold weather and to supply a minimum of
three gallons of hot water per hour per trailer coach space during the time of
peak demands;
      (7)   All rooms therein shall be well ventilated and all openings shall
be effectively screened; and
      (8)   At least one service building shall be located within 200 feet of
every mobile home space designed or intended to accommodate a dependent mobile
home.
(Prior Code, § 62.12.050)
   (F)   Collection stations. Collection stations for refuse, garbage, and sink
waste should be provided as necessary, but not less than one station for each
ten mobile home units, or fraction thereof. Walking distance to each collection
station shall not exceed 150 feet. Convenient vehicular access shall be
provided for each collection station. Such collection stations shall have a
storage capacity of not less than 30 gallons per week for each mobile home
space, except where all combustible refuse is incinerated as permitted herein,
such capacity may be reduced to ten gallons per week. Racks or holders shall be
provided for common garbage receptacles with 12 inches of clear space beneath
them to facilitate cleaning and to prevent rodent harborage. Such racks shall
be so designed as to minimize spillage and container deterioration. All
receptacles shall be watertight, flyproof and rodentproof, and fireproof.
(Prior Code, § 62.12.060)
   (G)   Collection disposal and storage.
      (1)   The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse shall be so managed
as to create no health hazards, rodents harborage, insect breeding area,
accident hazards, or air pollution. When rats or other rodents are known to be
in the premises, the operator shall take definite actions, as directed by the
Health Officer, to exterminate them.
      (2)   Each mobile home space shall be provided with at least one
watertight, flyproof and rodentproof container of four- to six-gallon capacity,
which shall be emptied into an approved common receptacle in the collection
station or disposed of in a manner as provided for herein.
      (3)   All garbage shall be collected at least once each week. Where
public collection service is not available, the operator shall arrange for all
refuse to be collected and transported to a public disposal area in covered
vehicles or covered containers.
      (4)   Unless prohibited by law, incineration may be permitted to be used
for garbage and combustible rubbish, or for combustible rubbish alone upon
application to, and approval of, the Health Officer; provided that the
incinerator must be property designed and operated so the materials will be
reduced to an odorless gas and inorganic ash. A minimum temperature of 1,250F
must be maintained in the incinerator, and a spark screen shall be provided to
reduce the fire hazard. Such incinerator, if approved, shall be located at
least 100 feet from the closest mobile home and/or dwelling. All other refuse
shall be transported to, and disposed of, in an approved garbage disposal area
as required hereinabove.
(Prior Code, § 62.12.070)
   (H)   Sewage. All sewage and liquid waste shall be required to be connected
with public sewer facilities. Each mobile home space for independent mobile
homes shall have a trapped sewer inlet to receive all mobile home wastes.
(Prior Code, § 62.12.080)
   (I)   Water supply.
      (1)   A palatable supply of water, safe for human consumption, shall be
provided under pressure in quantities to meet all requirements for the maximum
number of persons which may reside on the premises at any time. Water supply
must come from an approved public water system.
      (2)   No common vessel shall be used for drinking purposes. Only approved
drinking fountains or single service containers shall be installed or used.
(Prior Code, § 62.12.090)
(Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.848 LOCATION AND GENERAL LAYOUT OF MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Drainage. The site of any use should be graded and/or filled and
maintained so as to prevent the accumulation of storm or wastewater of any
kind, and no such use shall be permitted in low, swampy places where the
groundwater causes the surface soil to become wet. Protective slopes away from
all patios, mobile home stands, and buildings, and any water supply wells,
shall be provided to assure immediate drainage and diversion of surface water
away from these facilities.
(Prior Code, § 62.14.010)
   (B)   Access roads. Each use shall be provided with hard-surfaced access
roads at least 20 feet wide to serve each mobile home space and common parking
areas. Each such access road should be continuous and unobstructed, and shall
connect directly to a public major or a collector traffic street. Direct
vehicular access to mobile home space shall be limited to the access road or
roads provided. Where any access road connects to two or more public streets,
it shall be arranged so as to prohibit through traffic.
(Prior Code, § 62.14.020)
   (C)   Off-street parking. Hard surfaced parking spaces shall be provided for
the parking of motor vehicles in the ration of at least one and one-half
parking spaces to each mobile home space.
(Prior Code, § 62.14.030)
   (D)   Playground and park area. A playground area shall be provided for each
mobile home park having ten or more units, and shall be restricted to, and
maintained for, such use. These areas shall be protected from the public street
and from parking areas. A minimum usable area of 2,000 square feet shall be set
aside and developed for each mobile home park having at least ten units and 100
square feet for each additional unit up to, and including, an additional ten
units and 50 square feet additional for each unit above 20 units.
(Prior Code, § 62.14.040)
   (E)   Planning Commission approval of layout required before construction.
      (1)   Each new application for the construction and enlargement of a
mobile home park shall first be submitted to, and approved by, the Planning
Commission before the Building Inspector may issue a construction permit or
certificate of occupancy, or before the City Recorder may issue a license
therefor. With each such application, the owner shall submit a preliminary plat
showing the layout of scale. After approval of the preliminary plat, a complete
development and plot plan drawn to scale not less than one inch equals 50 feet
shall be submitted in duplicate. This plan shall show:
         (a)   The physical features of the property to be occupied, ditches,
streams, trees, and existing buildings or structures, and the like;
         (b)   The complete layout and proposed location of service buildings
or other buildings, playgrounds, service yards, and garbage collector stations,
if any;
         (c)   The location of utilities, such as power, telephone, water, fire
hydrant and extinguishers, sewer, and such other facilities as required or
otherwise proposed; and
         (d)   The location, size, and dimension of each mobile home space, and
location of a mobile home and structure within.
      (2)   The Planning Commission, in the performance of its function in this
capacity, shall take into consideration topography of the land and its other
physical features.
(Prior Code, § 62.14.050)
   (F)   Density of permanent mobile home units in a mobile home park. The
maximum number of mobile home units shall not exceed a density of nine units
per acre.
(Prior Code, § 62.14.060)
   (G)   Density of transient travel trailers, and the like, in an overnight
trailer park. The maximum number of travel trailer units shall not exceed a
density of 25 units per acre.
(Prior Code, § 62.14.070)
   (H)   Mobile home space. The limits of each mobile home space should be
clearly marked on the ground by permanent flush stakes, markers, fences, or
other suitable means, and each such space shall be of such size as will be
necessary to accommodate a mobile home and its facilities and required open
space; provided that no such space shall be smaller in size than specified
hereunder: for area, 3,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 62.14.080)
   (I)   Overnight trailer space. The minimum area of an overnight trailer
space shall be 1,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 62.14.090)
   (J)   Mobile home space layout.
      (1)   For mobile home stands, the portion of the stand designed for the
location of mobile home shall be a clearly-defined area not less than ten feet
wide and 45 feet long, and hard-surfaced with either a concrete slab or other
suitable base to carry the weight of the mobile home. The portion of the stand
designed for the location of a cabana or other add-on enclosed space and patio,
as permitted, shall be similarly hard-surfaced with a hot plant mix sheet
asphalt, concrete, brick, block, or similar material over the overall area, in
addition to an appropriate and adequate foundation or support for such
structures.
      (2)   For yards, space between boundary lines of the mobile home space
and each mobile home, cabana, or other add-on space shall be provided as
follows (where there is more than one requirement, the more restrictive shall
apply):
         (a)   From mobile home stand to the stand line on opposite side of
access road: 50 feet minimum;
         (b)   Between a mobile home stand and a common parking area, access
road, or pedestrian walkway: ten feet minimum;
         (c)   Between a mobile home stand and a public major, or collector,
street: 30 feet with ornamental screening; otherwise, 50 feet;
         (d)   Between the side of any mobile home stand and the boundary of a
mobile home park: 15 feet with ornamental screening; otherwise, 25 feet;
         (e)   Between the non-entry side of mobile home stand and mobile home
space boundary: five feet minimum. Between entry side of stand and boundary: 15
feet minimum. Total sum of side yards: 20 feet minimum. Where, due to the shape
of the mobile home space, it is desirable to locate the mobile home stand
closer than 15 feet to the mobile home space boundary, the Planning Commission
may authorize a reduction where the corner of the stand could be closer than 15
feet; provided that the average space shall not be less than 15 feet wide and
that the reduced distance be not less than five feet. Awnings or other
temporary covers over patios may encroach into any required yard space;
provided that they shall not be closer than five feet to the boundary or the
mobile home space;
         (f)   Yard space between end of stand and boundary line: five feet
minimum; and
         (g)   Mobile home stands shall be located so as to provide that they
are spaced not less than 20 feet apart from side to side, and not less than ten
feet apart end to end.
      (3)   Required parking for towing vehicles shall be provided on hard-
surfaced areas on the mobile home space and/or in parking bays adjacent
thereto. No parking space used in conjunction with one mobile space shall be
located closer than 15 feet to the stand on an adjacent mobile home space.
      (4)   Structures as permitted, as set forth in §
157.260, may not be located closer than ten feet to any mobile home space
boundary, except that no such structure shall be located between a mobile home
stand and a public street.
      (5)   This division (J) shall not apply to overnight trailer parks.
(Prior Code, § 62.14.100)
   (K)   Mobile home park layout.
      (1)   All access roads shall be retained as private roads on the
property. The gradient of any road providing access either to the mobile home
park or to an individual mobile home stand shall be more than 8%.
      (2)   The location of management office buildings shall be in accordance
with the zoning ordinance regulating the location or main buildings; service
buildings, if detached, shall also be located as required for accessory
buildings. Service facilities may be provided as a part of the main building if
desired.
(Prior Code, § 62.14.110)
(Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.849 ELECTRICAL SERVICE, WIRING, FUEL, AND FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Electrical wiring and service. All electric wiring shall be installed
to conform with the requirements of all state and city electrical codes and
ordinances. An electrical outlet, supplying at least 110 volts, shall be
provided for each mobile home space. Such electrical outlets shall be
weatherproof. No person shall make an electrical connection for any mobile home
without obtaining a permit and approval of the Building Inspector; except that
a previously-approved electrical connection system may be employed without
obtaining such permit. No power line shall be permitted to lie on the ground,
or to be suspended less than 18 feet above the surface of the ground.
(Prior Code, § 62.16.010)
   (B)   Storage of gasoline and fuel. Bulk storage of gasoline or other fuel
shall be done only in compliance with the standards of the National Board of
Fire Underwriters and in accordance with the County Fire Prevention Code. All
aboveground storage facilities shall be enclosed and screened from view by the
use of ornamental fences, walls, or hedges. Liquefied petroleum gas for cooking
purposes shall not be used at individual mobile home spaces unless the
containers are properly connected by copper or other suitable metallic tubing.
Liquefied petroleum gas cylinders shall be securely fastened in place, and
shall be adequately protected from the weather. No cylinder containing
liquefied petroleum gas shall be located in a mobile home, nor within five feet
of a door thereof. Cooking and heating solvents shall be of a type approved by
the Fire Underwriters Laboratory.
(Prior Code, § 62.16.020)
   (C)   Fire protection. All mobile home parks shall be subject to the rules
and regulations of the County Fire Department or Fire Prevention Authority, and
in accordance with the Fire Prevention Code and requirements as herein
specified.
      (1)   Mobile home parks shall be subject to the rules and regulations of
the County Fire Department or Fire Prevention Authority, and in accordance with
the Fire Prevention Code and requirements as herein specified.
      (2)   In every mobile home park, or portion of every mobile home park
containing more than ten mobile home spaces, there shall be installed and
maintained approved fire hydrants with mounted hose rack or reel spaced at such
distances as to reach all areas with 75 feet of hose. Each fire hydrant shall
be not less than one and one-half inches in diameter, terminating with a shut-
off valve. Hose racks and reels shall be equipped with 75 feet of one and one-
half inch diameter hose with fire nozzles with one-half inch tips. Not less
than 35 pounds of water pressure shall be supplied; provided that in the event
such water pressure is not available, alternate first-aid firefighting
equipment may be substituted upon approval of the local Fire Department having
jurisdiction. Where a public water system is available to the mobile home park,
standard fire hydrants and fire service lines shall be installed in such a
manner that a fire hydrant shall be located within 400 feet of each mobile home
space.
      (3)   There shall be installed and maintained in a conspicuous and
accessible location in every mobile home park containing three or more mobile
home spaces at least one approved two and one-half gallon portable fire
extinguisher or equivalent. Additional approved extinguishers shall be
installed at distances of not more than 200 feet apart, or as otherwise
determined by the Fire Department.
      (4)   Suitable telephone facilities shall be maintained at the site of
each use which are accessible at all times, unless a fire alarm system,
approved by the Fire Department, is installed.
      (5)   Fires shall be made only in stoves and other equipment approved and
intended for such purposes.
      (6)   All equipment required by this division (C) shall meet the approval
of the local Fire Department having jurisdiction. Alternates to the
requirements of this section may be authorized by the Fire Department having
jurisdiction.
      (7)   Neither any article that is dangerous or detrimental to life or to
the health of the occupancy of a structure, nor any material the Fire
Department determines may create a fire hazard, shall be kept, stored, or
handled in any part of a structure, or on the site on which the structure is
situated.
(Prior Code, § 62.16.030)
(Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.850 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Building Inspector, County Health
Officer, and such other officials as may be designated by the City Council to
enforce this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any enforcing officer, appointed under §
157.330, to report any apparent violations to the Enforcement Officer
appointed.
   (C)   The City Recorder shall cooperate with the Enforcement Officer and
shall have joint responsibility therewith in the administration of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 62.18.010) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.851 PUBLIC CAMPS.
   (A)   Public camps: permits, license. It shall be unlawful for any person,
corporation, association, or group to begin the construction of, or to conduct,
maintain, or operate, any public camp in the city without first applying for,
and obtaining, a written permit to do so from the City Council. Applicants for
such licenses and permits shall file application in writing with the City
Recorder, together with the license fee as hereinafter provided, which
application shall show the plan and location of the applicants proposed place
of business, the number of rooms or spaces available to tenants, and state in
detail the source of water supply and the kind and number of toilets, bath, and
shower facilities available for use for male and female guests, respectively.
(Prior Code, § 62.22.010)
   (B)   Investigation; rules and regulations; license revocation.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of said City Council and the County Health
Supervisor to make an investigation of the proposed site and to require the
permittee to comply with all rules and regulations passed by the City Council
pertaining to PUBLIC CAMPS, as defined in this section. The City Council shall
promulgate rules and regulations to enforce this section, and a copy of such
rules shall be furnished with each permit or license issued. The City Council
may from time to time modify, amend, or pass new rules and regulations which
they shall deem advisable or necessary to achieve the purposes of the section.
      (2)   The license herein provided for, together with a copy of the rules
and regulations passed by the City Council, shall be displayed by the licensee
in a conspicuous place upon said licensed premises. The right to operate a
public camp granted by this license is conditioned upon the licensee complying
with the rules and regulations passed by the City Council, said license being
subject to revocation by the City Council for noncompliance with this section
or noncompliance or violations of the rules and regulations passed by the City
Council. Any change in the rules and regulations from the time of issuance of
said license must be given to the licensee by written notice of the change or
addition.
(Prior Code, § 62.22.020)
   (C)   License fee. The yearly license fee for such public camps shall be
according to §
33.004, or an ordinance of the city providing for a license fee to be collected
from any enterprise carried on within the city for the purpose of gain or
profit.
(Prior Code, § 62.22.030)
   (D)   Daily register required. Every licensee of such premises shall keep a
daily register of all guests or tenants of such premises, which register shall
be available at all times and for one year thereafter for inspection by the
Sheriff’s Department and/or city official.
(Prior Code, § 62.22.040)
   (E)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      PUBLIC CAMP. Any place, area, or tract of land upon which one or more
camping parties, use, or erect for use, a cabin or tent for transient or
temporary living or sleeping purposes; with the express consent of the owner or
person legally in charge of said place, area, or tract of land.
      SQUATTER. One who settles or locates on land, enclosed or unenclosed,
with no bona fide claim or color of title, or without the expressed consent of
the owner or person legally in charge of the land.
      SQUATTER CAMP. An area of land occupied by one or more squatters.
(Prior Code, § 62.22.050)
(Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
ANIMAL KEEPING
§ 157.865 ANIMAL KEEPING.
   (A)   No structure, except for a rabbit hutch or chicken coop, that is
designated for animal housing and/or shelter shall be constructed closer than
the minimum setback standards for accessory buildings for the zone in which the
structure is located. The structure shall be built no closer than 75 feet to
any existing dwelling on an adjacent lot.
   (B)   No corral or pen shall be located and built closer than 25 feet to any
street right-of-way line and 75 feet to any existing dwelling on an adjacent
lot.
      (1)   Pastures. A pasture does not have to meet these setback
requirements, but is required to be constructed and maintained to prevent any
damage to adjacent properties and/or fencing.
      (2)   Coops, hutches. A chicken coop or rabbit hutch must be ten feet
from a side lot line and ten feet from a rear lot line. There shall be no
chicken coops or rabbit hutches in a front yard.
   (C)   Corrals, pens, and/or fencing shall be constructed and maintained so
as to prevent damage to adjacent properties and/or fencing.
   (D)   Animals for animal keeping are categorized in Table 1 (see § 157.866).
Animals not permitted in any zone in any number: wild animals, peafowl, and
guinea fowl.
   (E)   Animal keeping, as an accessory use, shall be allowed on residential
lots in all zones, subject to the following requirements and restrictions as
outlined in Table 2 (see §
157.867) and below.
      (1)   General animal keeping limitations.
         (a)   No animals in Categories A, B, C, or D in Table 1 may be kept on
lots less than 10,000 square feet.
         (b)   Animals from Category E may be kept on lots under 10,000 square
feet.
         (c)   No animals may be kept on lots less than 5,000 square feet.
         (d)   Lots between 5,000 to 9,999 square feet: three animal units are
allowed.
         (e)   Lots greater than 10,000 square feet: six animal units per
10,000 square feet of lot size are allowed, subject to the limitations by zone.
   (F)   Permitted uses requiring five acre-minimum lot areas in A-1 and A-
2 Zones only are as follows:
      (1)   Dairy, milk processing. Dairy farm and milk processing and sale;
provided at least 50% of milk is processed and produced on the premises;
      (2)   Hatching, raising facilities. Farms devoted to the hatching and
raising (including fattening as an incident to raising) of chickens, turkeys,
or other fowl, rabbits, fish, frogs, or beavers;
      (3)   Hogs. The keeping and raising of not more than ten hogs, more than
16 weeks old; provided that no person shall feed any such hog any market
refuse, house refuse, garbage, or offal other than that produced on the
premises; and
      (4)   Horses, cattle, sheep, goats. The raising and grazing of horses,
cattle, sheep, or goats as part of a farming operation, including the
supplementary or full feeding of such animals; provided that such raising and
grazing, when conducted by a farmer in conjunction with any livestock feed
yard, livestock sales, or slaughterhouse shall:
         (a)   Not exceed a density of 25 heads per acre of used land;
         (b)   Be carried on during the period of September 15 through April 15
only;
         (c)   Be no closer than 300 feet to any dwelling, public, or semi-
public building on an adjoining parcel or land;
         (d)   Not include the erection of any permanent fences, corrals,
chutes, structures, or other buildings normally associated with a feeding
operation; and
         (e)   Manage manure accumulation as not to be a nuisance to any
adjoining property.
   (G)   This division (G) allows for the alteration of the number of animals
allowed on a property when designated for a special educational youth animal
project.
      (1)   Limits. Limits on animals per permit are as follows:
         (a)   Educational juvenile animals will be counted as 50% of the units
of an adult of the same species; and
         (b)   The allowable animal units, based on property size, will be
increased by 50% for the educational period only as noted below.
      (2)   Special educational youth animal project permit process.
         (a)   The property owner must submit a temporary limited use
application for a special educational youth animal project to the Code
Enforcement Officer.
         (b)   The application shall include a plot plan of where animals will
be kept on the property in relation to neighboring homes and property owners;
the number and type of animals requested; the length of time requested for the
animals to be on the property; and specific plans to mitigate smell, noise,
confinement, and pollution.
         (c)   A permit shall not be issued, even under a conditional use
permit, in zones or on parcels where, by lot size, for animal keeping is not
allowed.
         (d)   A permit allows a temporary increase to the cap on animal units
in a particular zone.
         (e)   The application must be approved and signed by the Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, and signed by the Planning
Commission Chairman.
         (f)   Conditions for a permit are:
            1.   Permits shall not be granted for more than a nine-month period
in one calendar year and must be obtained prior to starting the project;
            2.   Permits can only be granted for an approved youth
organization, for example, 4H, FFA, or scouting, with the purpose of the
project stated on the application; and
            3.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall set conditions based on
those outlined in the applicant’s permit application to mitigate smell, noise,
confinement, and pollution.
         (g)   Written and signed complaints received by the Code Enforcement
Officer will be evaluated within 15 days. After receiving a complaint, the Code
Enforcement Officer will investigate. If the Code Enforcement Officer finds
merit in the complaint, the Code Enforcement Officer may impose conditions on
the permit holder to mitigate the issues which are the subject of a valid
complaint. A severe complaint or repeated complaints could result in a
revocation of the permit at the discretion of the Planning Commission.
         (h)   All animals covered by the permit must be removed from the
property when the permit expires.
   (H)   Additional requirements are as follows.
      (1)   Containment. All animals located on a lot or parcel of land shall
be contained by the owner of the animal upon said lot or parcel.
      (2)   Offspring. The offspring of animals legally kept, pursuant to this
subchapter, may be maintained on the property. Such animals (also known as
juvenile animals, under the age at which they are saleable by industry
standards (see below)) do not count for total animal units. For all others,
they are outlined as the juvenile standard set forth in the U.S. Agricultural
Standards.
         (a)   Standard cattle: eight months;
         (b)   Standard horse: six months;
         (c)   Standard pig: three months;
         (d)   Standard goat: three months;
         (e)   Standard sheep: three months; and
         (f)   Standard chicken: three months.
      (3)   Prohibited. Juvenile animals of a type not otherwise allowed on a
lot shall not be allowed, and shall not be granted a conditional use permit;
      (4)   Complaints. If a written and signed complaint is received by the
city regarding issues with an animal (which is not a pet, as defined in this
subchapter), the Code Enforcement Officer shall, within 15 days, investigate
and determine if the complaint is significant or not. If the Code Enforcement
Officer deems the complaint to be significant, the Code Enforcement Officer
will then direct the animal owner to apply to the Planning Commission for a
conditional use permit for conditions that may be required for said animals;
      (5)   Pets, exotic pets. Pets, including exotic pets, are allowed in each
of the zones as currently allowed, unless otherwise restricted by this
subchapter;
      (6)   Service animals. Service animals and therapy pets are allowed in
any zone where state and federal law would allow them;
      (7)   Definition of acre. For purposes of this subchapter, an ACRE is
defined as 40,000 square feet, THREE-FOURTHS OF AN ACRE is defined as 30,000
square feet, and a HALF ACRE is defined as 20,000 square feet. A QUARTER ACRE
is defined as 10,000 square feet;
      (8)   Definition of lot or parcel of property’s square footage. For
purposes of this subchapter, a LOT OR PARCEL OF PROPERTY’S SQUARE FOOTAGE is
defined as that square footage listed for one lot or parcel under one tax
identification number. A property owner cannot combine different lots with
different tax ID numbers to be able to achieve the square footage necessary for
animal keeping. A property owner may apply to the Code Enforcement Officer for
an exemption regarding this if they can show that the different lots with
different tax ID numbers would allow animal keeping in an area that conforms
with the nature of the subdivision or neighboring uses;
      (9)   Exemption. If a property owner wishes to conduct animal keeping in
excess of allotted units per acre on a lot where it is otherwise allowed, the
owner shall apply for a variance through the City Administrative Officer, as
outlined herein;
      (10)   Ordinances. City ordinances regarding animal keeping always apply.
However, HOAs, CCRs, and any covenants that run with a property can be more
restrictive; and
      (11)   Pre-existing rights.
         (a)   In the instance where a new dwelling is built within 75 feet of
an existing animal enclosure, the animal owner shall have a pre-existing right
and shall not be required to move the animals or enclosure.
         (b)   If the animal enclosure is removed, or the animal(s) have been
removed for over a year, the right is abandoned. If a new enclosure was built,
the property owner would have to comply under the current ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 63.01.010)
(Ord. 39-2019, passed 12-18-2019; Ord. 06-2021, passed 2-3-2021; Ord. 25-2021,
passed 7-7-2021; Ord. 07-2022, passed 5-4-2022; Ord. 17-2022, passed 9-7-2022)
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.866 ANIMALS FOR ANIMAL KEEPING.
Table 1: Animals for Animal Keeping
Category Animal Unit(s)
Table 1: Animals for Animal Keeping
Category Animal                                              Unit(s)
         Bison*                                              8
         Deer*                                               6
         Donkey *                                            6
         Elk*                                                6
A        Ostrich*                                            6
         Standard cattle**                                   6
         Standard horse**                                    6
         Standard pig**                                      6
         Yak**                                               6
         Alpaca                                              3
         Chicken, crowing hen***                             3
         Chicken, rooster***                                 3
         Emu                                                 3
         Llama                                               3
B        Miniature cattle (height < 48 in. at hip)           3
         Miniature horse (height < 34 in. at last hair of    3
         mane)
         Miniature pig (height < 20 in. at top of shoulders) 3
         Pony (height < 42 in. at withers)                   3
         Sheep                                               3
         Standard goat                                       3
         Duck                                                2
C        Goose                                               2
         Miniature goat (height < 30 in. at withers)         2
         Turkey                                              2
D        Pheasant                                            1
         Chicken, hen                                        0.5
E        Pigeon                                              0.5
         Quail                                               0.5
         Rabbit, beaver                                      0.5
Notes to Table:
*   These animals may not be kept on lots less than one acre.
**   These animals may not be kept on lots less than one-half acre.
***   Roosters and crowing hens may not be kept on lots less than one acre in
size in the R-1, R-2, and Mixed Use Zones. Roosters and crowing hens may not
be kept on lots less than one-half acre in the A-1 and A-2 Zones.
 
(Prior Code, § 63.01.020) (Ord. 39-2019, passed 12-18-2019; Ord. 06-2021,
passed 2-3-2021) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.867 [RESERVED].
§ 157.868 BEEKEEPING.
   (A)   Beekeeping is permitted in all Agricultural Zones and the following
single-family Residential Zones as follows:
      (1)   An apiary, consisting of not more than five hives or an equivalent
capacity, may be maintained on an agricultural lot which is one-half acre or
larger;
      (2)   An apiary, consisting of not more than five hives or an equivalent
capacity, may be maintained on a single-family Residential Zone lot which is
one-half acre or larger;
      (3)   For single-family Residential Zone lots which are larger than one
acre, the number of hives located on the lot may be increased to ten hives;
      (4)   For single-family Residential Zone lots larger than two acres, an
additional five hives per acre are permitted; and
      (5)   Beekeeping is permitted in a rear yard (or side yard) of single-
family Residential Zones lots of one-half acre or larger in the A-1, A-1, Open
Space Residential, A-2, R-1, R-2, and Mixed Use Zones.
   (B)   Additional requirements are as follows.
      (1)   A person shall not locate, or allow, a hive on property owned, or
occupied, by another person without first obtaining written permission from the
owner or occupant.
      (2)   Each beekeeper shall be registered with the State Department of
Agriculture and Food as provided in the Utah Bee Inspection Act in UCA § 4-11,
as amended.
      (3)   Each beekeeper shall annually register the address and location of
their hives with the County Mosquito Abatement to assure the hives will not be
sprayed by the County Mosquito Abatement.
      (4)   Hives shall be placed at least three feet from any property line
and six inches above the ground, as measured from the ground to the lowest
portion of the hive.
      (5)   Hives shall be operated and maintained as provided in the State Bee
Inspection Act.
      (6)   Each hive shall be conspicuously marked with the owner’s name,
address, telephone number, and state registration number.
      (7)   (a)   A hive shall be placed on property so the general flight
pattern of bees is in a direction that will deter bee contact with humans and
domesticated animals.
         (b)   If any portion of a hive is located between three feet and 15
feet from any property line without a six-foot solid fence, a flyway barrier
shall be established and maintained around the hive, except as needed to allow
access.
      (8)   On all lots, if the apiary is in an area that borders a public
walk, street, or public area, the area shall be separated from the public walk
or street by a six-foot tall solid fence or wall that extends at least ten feet
from the hive in each direction.
      (9)   Each beekeeper shall ensure that a convenient source of water is
available to the colony continuously. The water shall be in a location that
minimizes any nuisance created by bees seeking water on neighboring property.
      (10)   Each bee keeper shall comply with all state laws and regulations
pertaining to beekeeping.
      (11)   (a)   If a beekeeper has an emergency in which they must
temporarily move hives onto their property to prevent death or damage to a hive
or hives because of environmental conditions at another hive location, a
beekeeper can move up to ten hives onto their property for a limited amount of
time.
         (b)   The beekeeper shall contact the city immediately to give the
city notice of the emergency and the limited time needed to remedy the
emergency and protect the hives.
      (12)   If a conflict arises between any regulation set forth in this
subchapter and bee management regulations adopted by the State and/or County
Health Department, the most restrictive regulations shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 63.02) (Ord. 30-2019, passed 9-4-2019)
HOME OCCUPATION
§ 157.880 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to allow persons residing in
dwellings in residential and agricultural areas to provide a service, develop a
product for sale and operate certain kinds of small businesses, while at the
same time maintaining the peace, quiet, and domestic tranquility within all
residential or agricultural areas of the city.
(Prior Code, § 64.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992, Ord. 16-2022, passed 8-17-
2022)
§ 157.881 USE.
   (A)   Home occupations shall be allowed as a permitted use in all
residential and agricultural zones, provided that the following conditions are
met:
      (1)   Individuals who own and operate the business must also live at the
residence.
      (2)   The business employs no more than one employee who does not live at
the residence.
      (3)   The business does not use any accessory building, garage, yard or
space outside the main building not normally associated with residential use.
      (4)   The business does not use, produce or store hazardous chemicals, as
defined in UCA § 19-6-302.
      (5)   Provided the above conditions are met, and that the business does
not otherwise violate any provision of the West Haven City Zoning Code, a home
occupation license shall be issued.
   (B)   (1)   Home occupations which do not meet all of the above criteria may
be allowed, but shall be required to apply for a conditional use permit from
the Planning Commission.
      (2)   In reviewing a request for a conditional use permit for a home
occupation, the Planning Commission may consider the following factors, and may
impose such conditions as necessary and reasonable to offset the potential
detrimental impacts as these factors create:
         (a)   Will the business produce, or be likely to produce, noise,
odors, dust or smoke that extends beyond the property?
         (b)   Will the business produce, or be likely to produce, vehicular
traffic such that it becomes a nuisance or a hazard?
         (c)   If the business uses, produces or stores hazardous chemicals, as
defined in UCA § 19-6-302, has a plan been presented which addresses how such
chemicals will be used, produced or stored, and is said plan in compliance with
all relevant federal, state and local ordinances regarding chemicals?
   (C)   The following uses shall not constitute home occupations and shall not
be allowed in any residential or agricultural zone:
      (1)   Any business which requires more than five employees who do not
reside at the residence to report to the residence.
      (2)   On lots less than one acre, any business which involves the repair,
service, inspection or any type of work on any type of vehicle, motorcycle,
automobile or off-highway vehicle, as defined in UCA § 41-1a-102.
      (3)   Any activity that violates existing or criminal codes of West
Haven, the State of Utah or the U.S. Government.
      (4)   Short-term boutiques or group garage sales of personal used items
held more than once every three months.
   (D)   On lots greater than one acre, any business which involves the repair,
service, inspection or any type of work on any type of vehicle, motorcycle,
automobile, or off-highway vehicle, as defined in UCA § 41-1a-102, may be
allowed in residential or agricultural zones, but must comply with the
following conditions, along with any other conditions that the Planning
Commission feels are necessary based on the circumstances:
      (1)   Only three cars which are not registered to the homeowner may be
parked or stored on the premises at any time.
      (2)   Any vehicles, motorcycles or cars must have work actively being
performed on it and shall not remain on the premises longer than 30 days unless
it is stored inside an outbuilding.
      (3)   The three allowed cars shall be parked in a garage or outbuilding
or on a non-permeable surface on the property.
      (4)   Any on-street parking must comply with West Haven Zoning Code.
      (5)   The property must be enclosed with a six foot privacy fence which
complies with the West Haven fencing regulations, and all business, including
the parking and storage of vehicles, motorcycles, automobiles or off-highway
vehicles, must be conducted and contained behind the fence.
   (E)   Regardless of lot size, no home occupation shall be allowed which
involves the sale of vehicles, motorcycles, automobiles, or off-highway
vehicles, as defined in UCA § 41-1a-102, regardless of whether such requires a
dealer's license, as defined by the State of Utah Tax Commission.
   (F)   Agricultural farming does not require a home occupation business
license.
   (G)   Home occupations shall be required to pay for an annual business
license. Approval of the home occupation shall be deemed null and void if the
licensee fails to renew the business license, moves from the residence or
ceases to operate the home occupation for a period of 12 consecutive months.
(Prior Code, § 64.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 45-2020, passed 11-18-
2020; Ord. 16-2022, passed 8-17-2022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.882 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   All home occupations, whether permitted or conditional, shall meet all of
the following conditions and requirements:
   (A)   The occupation shall allow the residence to retain the general
character and appearance of the residential dwelling.
   (B)   The portion of the home occupation shall remain secondary to the
residential use of the dwelling.
   (C)   The business shall not operate between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
   (D)   Regardless of the business, any homeowner seeking a license for a
second home occupation shall be required to obtain approval from the Planning
Commission.
   (E)   All business-related vehicles must be parked behind the front plane of
the home, in a garage or on a non-permeable surface and not on the street.
   (F)   Any signs related to the home occupation shall comply with the West
Haven City sign ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 64.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 45-2020, passed 11-18-
2020; Ord. 16-2022, passed 8-17-2022)
§ 157.883 FEES.
   Annual license fees shall be assessed and paid in accordance with the West
Haven City fee schedule. If the license has not been renewed prior to or within
60 days of expiration, the license will be terminated and all conditional uses
granted will be forfeited, including grandfathered conditional uses.
(Prior Code, § 64.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 45-2020, passed 11-18-
2020; Ord. 16-2022, passed 8-17-2022)
DAY CARE RESIDENTIAL
§ 157.895 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to allow persons residing in
dwellings in residential and agricultural areas to establish home day care
while at the same time maintaining the peace, quiet, and domestic tranquility
within all residential or agricultural areas of the city, and guaranteeing to
all residents freedom from excessive noise, traffic, nuisances, fire hazard,
and other possible adverse effects of home day care and home preschool
activities being conducted in such areas.
(Prior Code, § 66.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.896 USE.
   (A)   A level one and level two home day care occupations shall be allowed
either as permitted (only home day care level one, with eight children or fewer
children) or conditional uses in various residential and agricultural districts
of the city as listed in the use and regulations of such various districts, and
in accordance with the regulations and restrictions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Only home day care may be approved as a permitted use in all
Residential and Agricultural Zones in the city if they have eight or fewer
children. A day care over eight children requires a conditional use.
(Prior Code, § 66.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.897 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   Any day care operation conducted on property where the primary use is a
residence shall be appropriately licensed by the state (see Utah Administrative
Code § R430-90), and city home day cares shall comply with the following
standards.
   (A)   The day care operation shall comply with all provisions of a home
occupation, except that a day care or a preschool shall be exempt from the
limitation on the use of space in and outside the home.
   (B)   A level one (single provider) home day care shall be limited to not
more than eight children, including the provider’s own children, under the age
of six. No more than two of the children may be under the age of two. The
single provider in the level one home day care must be a resident of the home.
   (C)   A level two (two provider) home day care shall be limited to not more
than 16 children, including the provider’s own children, under the age of six.
No more than three of the children may be under the age of two. Both providers
shall meet state requirements. One of the providers must be a resident of the
home. Only one person can be hired who is not a resident of the home.
   (D)   There shall be a minimum of 35 square feet of interior space provided
for each person within the area being used for home day care. Such space shall
be exclusive of any storage, restroom, or hall spaces. A floor plan indicating
what area of the home will be utilized for day care shall be submitted with
each application. The floor plan shall be reviewed and approved by the city
staff prior to the operation of the home day care.
   (E)   There shall be a minimum of 100 square feet of yard space provided for
each child kept within the day care. Said space shall be secured by fencing or
other acceptable means. Any area or use within the yard area determined to be a
hazard to children shall be secured from access and shall not be counted in the
open space for the home day care. A site plan of the yard space being used for
home day care shall be reviewed and approved by the city staff.
   (F)   The area(s) used for the home day care shall have two separate means
of egress arranged so that if one is blocked, the other will be available.
   (G)   Exit doors, other than the main exit, may be 32 inches wide. Main
exits shall be 36 inches wide.
   (H)   When the area being used for home day care is located in the basement
or on the second floor, one of the exits must discharge directly to the
outside.
   (I)   No home day care shall be operated above the second floor of a
residential structure.
   (J)   Rooms used for sleeping shall have at least one window and door
approved for emergency escape.
   (K)   Closet door latches shall be such that children can open the door from
the inside of the closet.
   (L)   Bathroom door locks shall be readily operable by the provider(s) from
the outside.
   (M)   Smoke detectors and carbon monoxide detectors shall be installed
according to the latest edition of the adopted building code.
   (N)   Electrical outlets shall be protected or capped with safety devices.
   (O)   Toxic, hazardous, or flammable materials, medicines, firearms, or
other potentially-hazardous materials shall be locked in a protected area.
   (P)   Fireplaces, wood-burning stoves, or open-face heaters shall be
inaccessible to children when in use. Portable space heaters are not permitted
when children are on the premises.
   (Q)   Each home day care shall have a written emergency and/or disaster plan
which covers natural disasters, power failures, and the like which may pose a
health hazard to the children. Evidence that an emergency drill has been
conducted at least on a quarterly basis shall be provided to the County Fire
Department at the time of the yearly inspection.
   (R)   The area devoted to day care shall be provided with at least one fire
extinguisher.
(Prior Code, § 66.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.898 OTHER.
   Day care centers for larger operations cannot be operated in a residence and
cannot occupy homes that are in existing subdivisions. Day cares must follow
Utah Administrative Code § R430-90.
(Prior Code, § 66.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.899 FEES.
Fees shall be in accordance with the West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule.
The West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule is hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 66.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 26-2023, passed 1-3-
2024)
PRESCHOOL RESIDENTIAL
§ 157.910 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to allow persons residing in
dwellings in residential and agricultural areas to establish home preschools,
while at the same time maintaining the peace, quiet, and domestic tranquility
within all residential or agricultural areas of the city, and guaranteeing to
all residents freedom from excessive noise, traffic, nuisances, fire hazard,
and other possible adverse effects of home day care and home preschool
activities being conducted in such areas.
(Prior Code, § 68.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.911 USE.
   Preschool operations shall be allowed as a permitted use with 12 students or
fewer in various residential and agricultural districts of the city, as listed
in the use regulations of such various districts, and in accordance with the
regulations and restrictions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 68.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.912 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   Any preschool operation conducted on property where the primary use is a
residence shall be appropriately licensed by the state (if applicable) and the
city. Preschools shall comply with the following standards.
   (A)   The preschool operation shall comply with all provisions of a home
occupation, except that a preschool shall be exempt from the limitation on the
use of space in and outside the home.
   (B)   A preschool shall be limited to not more than 12 students at a time in
the home. The ratio of students to teachers must follow state standards and
regulations, if applicable. All state guidelines are to be followed. One
additional provider/teacher can be hired that is not a resident of the home.
Both providers shall meet state requirements, if applicable. One of the
providers must be a resident of the home.
   (C)   There shall be a minimum of 35 square feet of interior space provided
for each person within the area being used for home preschools. Such space
shall be exclusive of any storage, restroom, or hall spaces. A floor plan
indicating what area of the home will be utilized for day care shall be
submitted with each application. The floor plan shall be reviewed and approved
by the city staff prior to operation of the home day care.
   (D)   Preschools shall follow state guidelines, if applicable, for yard or
play area space.
   (E)   The area(s) used for the preschool shall have two separate means of
egress arranged so that if one is blocked, the other will be available.
   (F)   Exit doors other than the main exit may be 32 inches wide. Main exits
shall be 36 inches wide.
   (G)   When the area being used for a preschool is located in the basement or
on the second floor, one of the exits must discharge directly to the outside.
   (H)   No home preschool shall be operated above the second floor of a
residential structure.
   (I)   Rooms used for sleeping shall have at least one window and door
approved for emergency escape.
   (J)   Closet door latches shall be such that children can open the door from
the inside of the closet.
   (K)   Bathroom door locks shall be readily operable by the provider(s) from
the outside.
   (L)   Smoke detectors and carbon monoxide detectors shall be installed
according to the latest edition of the adopted building code.
   (M)   Electrical outlets shall be protected or capped with safety devices.
   (N)   Toxic, hazardous, or flammable materials, medicines, firearms, or
other potentially hazardous materials shall be locked in a protected area.
   (O)   Fireplaces, wood burning stoves, or open face heaters shall be
inaccessible to children when in use. Portable space heaters are not permitted
when children are on the premises.
   (P)   Each preschool shall have a written emergency and/or disaster plan
which covers natural disasters, power failures, and the like, which may pose a
health hazard to the children. Evidence that an emergency drill has been
conducted at least on a quarterly basis shall be provided to the County Fire
Department at the time of the yearly inspection.
   (Q)   The area devoted to the preschool shall be provided with at least one
fire extinguisher.
(Prior Code, § 68.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.913 OTHER.
   Preschools for larger operations cannot be operated in a residence and
cannot occupy homes that are in existing subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 68.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.914 FEES.
   (A)   Fees shall be in accordance with the West Haven City Consolidated Fee
Schedule. The West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule is hereby adopted by
reference.
   (B)   See the West Haven City Consolidated Fee Schedule for the city
business license fees.
(Prior Code, § 68.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 45-2020, passed 11-18-
2020; Ord. 26-2023, passed 1-3-2024)
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
§ 157.925 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide specific regulations for
the placement, construction, and modification of personal wireless
telecommunications facilities. The provisions of this subchapter are not
intended to, and shall not be interpreted to, prohibit or to have the effect of
prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services, nor shall the
provisions of this subchapter be applied in such a manner as to unreasonably
discriminate between providers of functionally-equivalent personal wireless
services. To the extent that any provision or provisions of this subchapter are
inconsistent or in conflict with any other provision of this code or any
ordinance of the city, the provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed to
control.
   (B)   In the course of reviewing any request for any approval required under
this subchapter made by the applicant to provide personal wireless service or
to install personal wireless service facilities, the Zoning Board or the City
Council, as the case may be, shall act within a reasonable period of time after
the request is duly filed with the city, taking into account the nature and
scope of the request, and any decision to deny such a request shall be in
writing and supported by substantial evidence contained in a written record.
   (C)   Should the application of this subchapter have the effect of
prohibiting a person or entity from providing personal wireless service to all
or a portion of the city, such provider may petition the Zoning Board or the
City Council for an amendment to this subchapter. The Zoning Board or City
Council, upon receipt of such a petition, shall promptly undertake review of
the petition and shall make a determination on the petition within a reasonable
period of time, taking into account the nature and scope of the petition, and
any decision to deny such petition shall be in writing and supported by
substantial evidence contained in a written record.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Telecommunication facilities, see §§
114.01 through
114.13,
114.25 through
114.36, and
114.50 through
114.58
§ 157.926 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic, radio, or
television communications through the sending and/or receiving of
electromagnetic waves, including the equipment attached to a tower or building
for the purpose of providing personal wireless services.
   ANTENNA HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the base of the antenna
support structure at grade to the highest point of the structure, even if said
highest point is an antenna. Measurement of tower height shall include antenna,
base pad, and other appurtenances, and shall be measured from the finished
grade of the parcel. If the support structure is on a sloped grade, then the
average between the highest and lowest grades shall be used in calculating the
ANTENNA HEIGHT.
   ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any pole, telescoping mast, tower, tripod, or
other structure which supports an antenna.
   CELL SITE. A tract or parcel of land that contains the cellular
communications or personal wireless services antenna, its support structure,
accessory buildings, and parking, and may include other uses associated with,
and ancillary to, cellular communications or personal wireless service
transmissions.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   GOVERNING AUTHORITY. The governing authority of the city, namely the City
Council.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE AND PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES. Shall be
defined in the same manner as in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C), as they may be
amended now or in the future.
   TOWER. Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice
towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. The term encompasses personal wireless
facilities, including radio and television transmission towers, microwave
towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers or personal
communications services towers, alternative tower structures, and the like.
   ZONING BOARD. The Planning Commission of the city.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 157.927 POLICY STATEMENT.
   (A)   The Zoning Board and City Council have, on numerous occasions and with
increasing frequency, been confronted with requests to site communications
towers and antennas. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish general
guidelines for the siting of towers and antennas.
   (B)   The goals of this subchapter are to:
      (1)   Encourage the location of towers on public property and in non-
residential areas and to minimize the total number of towers throughout the
city;
      (2)   Encourage strongly the joint use of new and existing tower sites;
      (3)   Encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the
extent possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the city is minimal;
      (4)   Encourage users of towers and antennas to configure them in a way
that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas; and
      (5)   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications services
to provide such services throughout the city quickly, effectively, and
efficiently.
   (C)   Accordingly, the City Council finds that the promulgation of this
subchapter is warranted and necessary:
      (1)   To manage the location of towers and antennas in the city and
encourage the use of public property for the placement thereof;
      (2)   To protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impacts of towers, including support structure failure and falling ice;
      (3)   To minimize adverse visual impacts of towers through careful
design, siting, landscape screening, and innovative camouflaging techniques;
      (4)   To accommodate the growing need for towers;
      (5)   To promote and encourage shared use/co-location of existing and new
towers as a primary option rather than construction of additional single-use
towers, and to reduce the number of such structures needed in the future;
      (6)   To consider the public health and safety of towers to the extent
allowed by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (being Pub. Law No. 104-104); and
      (7)   To avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from antenna
support structure failure and falling ice through engineering and proper siting
of antenna support structures.
         (a)   For new uses, all new antennas shall comply with this subchapter
after the date of passage.
         (b)   For existing uses, all towers existing on the date of passage of
this subchapter shall be allowed to continue their usage as they presently
exist.
         (c)   Routine maintenance shall be permitted on such existing towers.
         (d)   New construction, other than routine maintenance on existing
towers, shall comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 70.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 157.928 INDUSTRY SITE SELECTION CRITERIA.
   (A)   In siting a new site, the industry requires a location that is
technically compatible with the established network. A general area is to be
identified based upon engineering constraints and the desired area of service.
   (B)   Specific locations within the general area will be evaluated using the
following criteria, which are not listed in order of priority:
      (1)   Topography as it relates to line-of-sight transmissions for optimum
efficiency in telephone service;
      (2)   Availability of road access;
      (3)   Availability of electric power;
      (4)   Availability of land-based telephone lines or microwave link
capability;
      (5)   Leasable lands and landlords who want facilities to be located on
their properties, consistent with zoning regulations;
      (6)   Screening potential of existing vegetation, structures, and
topographic features;
      (7)   Zoning that will allow low-power mobile radio service facilities;
      (8)   Compatibility with adjacent land uses;
      (9)   The least number of sites to cover the desired area;
      (10)   The greatest amount of coverage, consistent with physical
requirements;
      (11)   Opportunities to mitigate possible visual impact; and
      (12)   Availability of suitable existing structures for antenna mounting.
(Prior Code, § 70.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 157.929 CITY SITE SELECTION CRITERIA.
   (A)   As a fundamental element of this subchapter, the telecommunications
company proposing to construct an antenna support structure, or mount an
antenna on an existing structure, is required to demonstrate, using
technological evidence, that the antenna must go where it is proposed in order
to satisfy its function in the company’s grid system. Further, the company must
demonstrate by technological evidence that the height requested is the minimum
height necessary to fulfill the cell site’s function within the grid system.
   (B)   Applications for necessary permits will only be processed when the
applicant demonstrates that it is either an FCC-licensed telecommunications
provider or has in place agreements with an FCC-licensed telecommunications
provider for use or lease of the support structure.
   (C)   Low power mobile radio service facilities should be located and
designed to minimize any adverse effect they may have on residential property
values. Sites should be placed in locations where the existing topography,
vegetation, buildings, or other structures provide the greatest amount of
screening. Sites should be located on bare ground without visual mitigation
only in C and M Districts, based on the design standards articulated in this
subchapter, and then only as a conditional use.
   (D)   Location and design of sites in all districts should consider the
impact of the site on the surrounding neighborhood and the visual impact within
the zone district. In Residential Districts and residential land use areas, the
minimum lot size for commercial communications towers shall be three acres.
(Prior Code, § 70.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 157.930 PRIORITIES.
   The following establishes the order of priorities for locating new
communications facilities.
   (A)   Place antennas and towers on public property.
   (B)   Place antennas and towers in districts zoned C and M.
   (C)   Place antennas and towers in districts zoned C and M which do not
adjoin or adversely impact residential neighborhoods.
   (D)   Place antennas on appropriate existing structures, such as buildings,
communications towers, water towers, and smokestacks, in other zoned districts.
   (E)   Place antennas and towers on other private, non-residential property.
   (F)   Place antennas and towers in:
      (1)   Other Residential Districts only if locations for which a need has
been demonstrated are not available on existing structures or in non-
residential districts; and
      (2)   Only on, or in, existing churches, parks, schools, utility
facilities or other public facilities.
   (G)   An applicant for a new antenna support structure to be located in a
Residential Zoning District shall demonstrate that a diligent effort has been
made to locate the proposed communications facilities on a government
structure, a private institutional structure, or other appropriate existing
structures within a Non-Residential Zoning District, and that, due to valid
considerations, including physical constraints, and economic or technological
feasibility, no appropriate location is available. The telecommunications
company is required to demonstrate that it contacted the owners of tall
structures within a one-mile radius of the site proposed, asked for permission
to install the antenna on those structures, and was denied for reasons other
than economic ones. The information submitted by the applicant shall include a
map of the area to be served by the tower, its relationship to other antenna
sites in the applicant’s network, and an evaluation of existing buildings
taller than 20 feet, communications towers, and water tanks within one mile of
the proposed tower.
   (H)   Not withstanding any of the foregoing, no tower may be located within
a one-mile radius to another tower until supporting documentation is supplied
by an independent consultant stating that co-location will create a hardship.
However, if a master cell site plan is presented by industry representatives
and approved by the Planning Commission and City Council, the one-mile radius
does not apply.
      (1)   Priority for the use of city-owned land for antennas and towers
will be given to the following entities in descending order:
         (a)   The city;
         (b)   Public safety agencies, including law enforcement, fire, and
ambulance services, which are not part of the city; and private entities with a
public safety agreement;
         (c)   Other governmental agencies for uses which are not related to
public safety; and
         (d)   Entities providing licensed commercial wireless
telecommunication services, including cellular, personal communications
services (PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized
mobilized radio (ESMR), paging, and similar services that are marketed to the
general public.
      (2)   The placement of antennas or towers on city-owned property must
comply with the following minimum requirements.
         (a)   The antennas or tower will not interfere with the purpose for
which the city-owned property is intended.
         (b)   The antennas or tower will have no adverse impact on surrounding
private property.
         (c)   The applicant is willing to obtain adequate liability insurance
and commit to a lease agreement which includes equitable compensation for the
use of public land, and other necessary provisions and safeguards. The fees
shall be established by the City Council after considering comparable rates in
other cities, potential expenses, risks to the city, and other appropriate
factors.
         (d)   The applicant will submit a letter of credit, performance bond,
or other security acceptable to the city to cover the costs of the antenna or
tower’s removal.
         (e)   The antennas or tower will not interfere with other users who
have a higher priority, as discussed in §
157.925.
         (f)   Upon reasonable notice, the antennas or tower may be required to
be removed at the user’s expense.
         (g)   The applicant must reimburse the city for any costs which it
incurs because of the presence of the applicant’s antennas or tower.
         (h)   The user must obtain all necessary land use approvals.
         (i)   The applicant will cooperate with the city’s objective to
promote co-locations, and thus limit the number of separate antenna sites
requested.
      (3)   The use of certain city-owned property, such as water tower sites
and parks, for antennas or towers brings with it special concerns due to the
unique nature of these sites. The placement of antennas or towers on these
special city-owned sites will be allowed only when the following additional
requirements are met.
         (a)   The city’s water towers and reservoirs represent a large public
investment in water pressure stabilization and peak capacity reserves.
Protection of the equality of the city’s water supply is of prime importance to
the city. As access to the city’s water storage systems increases, so too
increased the potential for contamination of the public water supply. For these
reasons, the placement of antennas or towers on water tower or reservoir sites
will be allowed only when the city is fully satisfied that the following
requirements are met.
            1.   The applicant’s access to the facility will not increase the
risks of contamination to the city’s water supply.
            2.   There is sufficient room on the structure and/or on the
grounds to accommodate the applicant’s facility.
            3.   The presence of the facility will not increase the water tower
or reservoir maintenance cost to the city.
            4.   The presence of the facility will not be harmful to the health
of workers maintaining the water tower or reservoir.
         (b)   The presence of certain antennas or towers represents a
potential conflict with the purpose of some city-owned parks. In no case shall
towers be allowed in designated conservation areas unless they are to be
installed in areas which currently contain tower facilities. Antennas or towers
will be considered only in the following parks after the recommendation of the
Parks, Recreation, and Arts Commission and approval of the City Council:
            1.   Public parks of a sufficient scale and character that are
adjacent to an existing commercial or industrial use;
            2.   Commercial recreation areas and major play fields; and
            3.   Park maintenance facilities.
      (4)   All applicants who wish to locate an antenna or tower on city-owned
property must submit to the Mayor a completed application and detailed plan
that complies with the submittal requirements of this subchapter, the zoning
ordinance, subdivision ordinance, comprehensive master plan, and other
regulations and ordinances of the city, along with other pertinent information
requested by the city.
      (5)   The City Council may terminate any lease if it determines that any
one of the following conditions exist:
         (a)   A potential user with a higher priority cannot find another
adequate location, and the potential use would be incompatible with the
existing use;
         (b)   A user’s frequency broadcast unreasonably interferes with other
users of higher priority, regardless of whether or not this interference was
adequately predicted in the technical analysis; or
         (c)   A user violates any of the standards in this subchapter, or the
conditions attached to the city’s lease or other authorization. Before taking
action, the city will provide notice to the user of the intended termination
and the reasons for it, and provide an opportunity for the user to address the
City Council regarding the proposed action. This procedure need not be followed
in emergency situations.
      (6)   Notwithstanding the above, the City Council reserves the right to
deny, for any reason, the use of any or all city-owned property by any one or
all applicants.
(Prior Code, § 70.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 157.931 CO-LOCATION.
   To minimize adverse visual impacts associated with the proliferation of
towers, co-location of antennas by more than one carrier on existing or new
towers, and location of such antennas on public property, shall take precedence
over the construction of new single-use towers as follows:
   (A)   Proposed antennas may, and are encouraged to, co-locate onto existing
towers. Provided such co-location is accomplished in a manner consistent with
the policy, site criteria, and landscape/screening provisions contained in this
subchapter, then such co-locations are permitted by right, and new or
additional special use approval is not required, except that any other permit,
license, lease, or franchise requirements must be satisfied;
   (B)   The special use requirement for an antenna may be waived in non-
residential zones if the applicant locates the antenna on an existing structure
other than an existing tower and/or if the antenna is proposed to be located on
suitable public property such as a water tower, government building, or other
public tower or pole. The suitability of public property shall be determined in
the city’s sole discretion. The applicant must submit detailed plans to the
Planning Department for an administrative review to determine if the special
use permit process and public hearing can be waived. No building permit will be
issued until approval is granted through the administrative review;
   (C)   The city may deny the application to construct a new tower if the
applicant has not made a good faith effort to mount the antenna on an existing
structure and/or public property;
   (D)   In order to reduce the number of antenna support structures needed in
the city in the future, any new proposed support structure shall be designed to
accommodate antenna for more than one user, unless the applicant demonstrates
why such design is not feasible for economic, technical, or physical reasons;
and
   (E)   Unless co-location has been demonstrated to be infeasible, the site
plan shall delineate an area near the base of the tower to be used for the
placement of additional equipment buildings for other users. The site plan for
towers in excess of 100 feet must propose space for two comparable tower users
while the site plan for towers under 100 feet must propose space for one
comparable tower user. To provide further incentive for co-location as a
primary option, an existing tower may be modified or reconstructed to
accommodate the co-location of an additional antenna; provided the additional
antenna shall be of the same type as that on the existing tower. This is
permitted by right for existing towers in all zoning districts, subject to the
following criteria being met.
      (1)   Height. An existing tower may be modified or rebuilt to a taller
height, not to exceed 20 feet over the tower’s existing height, to accommodate
the co-location of an additional antenna. The height change may occur only once
per tower.
      (2)   On-site location. A tower which is being rebuilt to accommodate the
co-location of an additional antenna may be moved on-site within 50 feet of its
existing location so long as it remains within the same zone and complies with
the other provisions of this subchapter. After the tower is rebuilt to
accommodate co-location, only one tower may remain on-site.
(Prior Code, § 70.14) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 157.932 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   New towers. As provided in §
157.931 above, new towers shall be designed to accommodate antenna for more
than one user, unless the applicant demonstrates why such design is not
feasible for economic, technical, or physical reasons.
   (B)   Compatibility. Facilities should be architecturally compatible with
the surrounding buildings and land uses in the zoning district or otherwise
integrated, through location and design, to blend in with the existing
characteristics of the site to the extent practical.
      (1)   Tower setbacks shall be measured from the base of the tower to the
property line of the parcel on which it is located. Unless there are unusual
geographical limitations as determined in the city’s sole discretion, in
Residential Districts and residential land use areas, where permitted, towers
shall be set back from all property lines a distance equal to 300% of tower
height as measured from ground level. Towers shall comply with the minimum
setback requirements of the area in which they are located in all other zoning
districts.
      (2)   Towers shall have a color generally matching the surroundings or
background that minimizes their visibility, unless a different color is
required by the FCC or FAA.
      (3)   No signals, lights, or signs shall be permitted on towers unless
required by the FCC or the FAA. Should lighting be required, at the time of
construction of the tower in cases where there are residential users located
within a distance which is 300% of the height of the tower from the tower, then
dual-mode lighting shall be requested from the FAA.
      (4)   Ground level equipment and buildings, and the tower base, shall be
screened from public streets and residentially-zoned properties. The standards
for the equipment buildings are as follows:
         (a)   The maximum floor area is 300 feet and the maximum height is 12
feet;
         (b)   Ground level buildings shall be screened from adjacent
properties by landscape plantings, fencing, or other appropriate means, as
specified herein or in the City Code; and
         (c)   Equipment buildings mounted on a roof shall have a finish
similar to the exterior building walls. Equipment for roof-mounted antenna may
also be located within the building on which the antenna is mounted.
            1.   Equipment buildings, antenna, and related equipment shall
occupy no more than 25% of the total roof area of a building.
            2.   Antenna or equipment buildings not meeting these standards
require a special exception. The use must be approved on a comprehensive sketch
plan or final development plan, as applicable.
   (C)   Federal requirements. All towers must meet or exceed current standards
and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of the federal
government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas. If such
standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the towers and
antennas governed by this subchapter shall bring such towers and antennas into
compliance with such revised standards and regulations within three months of
the effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a more stringent
compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling federal agency. Failure to
bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised standards and
regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower or antenna at
the owners’ expense.
   (D)   Building codes; safety standards. To ensure the structural integrity
of towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in
compliance with standards contained in applicable city building codes and the
applicable standards for towers that are published by the Electronic Industries
Association (EIA), as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the city
concludes that a tower fails to comply with such codes and standards and
constitutes a danger to persons or property, then, upon notice being provided
to the owner of the tower, the owner shall have 30 days to bring such tower
into compliance with such standards. If the owner fails to bring such tower
into compliance within said 30 days, the city may remove such tower at the
owner’s expense.
   (E)   Structural design. Towers shall be constructed to the EIA standards,
which may be amended from time to time, and all applicable construction/
building codes. Further, any improvements and/or additions to existing towers
shall require submission of site plans sealed and verified by a professional
engineer which demonstrate compliance with the EIA standards and all other good
industry practices in effect at the time of said improvement or addition. Said
plans shall be submitted to, and reviewed, at the time building permits are
requested.
   (F)   Fencing. A well-constructed masonry or stone wall, or chain link
fence, not less than eight feet in height from finished grade shall be provided
around each tower. Access to the tower shall be through a locked gate.
   (G)   Antenna height. The applicant shall demonstrate that the antenna is
the minimum height required to function satisfactorily. No antenna that is
taller than this minimum height shall be approved.
   (H)   Antenna support structure safety. The applicant shall demonstrate that
the proposed antenna and support structure are safe, and the surrounding areas
will not be negatively affected by support structure failure, falling ice, or
other debris or interference. All support structures shall be fitted with anti-
climbing devices, as approved by the manufacturers.
   (I)   Required parking. If the cell site is fully automated, adequate
parking shall be required for maintenance workers. If the site is not
automated, arrangements for adequate off-street parking shall be made and
documentation thereof provided to the city. Security fencing should be colored
or should be of a design which blends into the character of the existing
environment.
   (J)   Antenna criteria. Antenna on, or above, a structure shall be subject
to the following.
      (1)   The antenna must be architecturally compatible with the building
and wall on which it is mounted and designed, and located so as to minimize any
adverse aesthetic impact.
      (2)   The antenna shall be mounted on a wall of an existing building in a
configuration as flush to the wall as technically possible, and shall not
project above the wall on which it is mounted unless, for technical reasons,
the antenna needs to project above the roofline. In no event shall an antenna
project more than ten feet above the roofline.
      (3)   The antenna shall be constructed, painted, or fully screened to
match as closely as possible the color and texture of the building and wall on
which it is mounted.
      (4)   The antenna may be attached to an existing conforming mechanical
equipment enclosure which projects above the roof of the building, but may not
project any higher than the enclosure.
      (5)   If an accessory equipment shelter is present, it must blend with
the surrounding buildings in architectural character and color.
      (6)   The structure must be architecturally and visually (color, size,
and bulk) compatible with surrounding existing buildings, structures,
vegetation, and/or uses or those likely to exist under the terms of the
underlying zoning. Such facilities will be considered architecturally and
visually compatible if they are camouflaged to disguise the facility.
      (7)   Site location and development shall preserve the pre-existing
character of the site as much as possible. Existing vegetation should be
preserved or improved, and disturbance of the existing topography of the site
should be minimized, unless such disturbance would result in less visual impact
of the site on the surrounding area. The effectiveness of visual mitigation
techniques must be evaluated by the city, in the city’s sole discretion, taking
into consideration the site as built.
      (8)   On buildings 30 feet or less in height, the antenna may be mounted
on the roof if:
         (a)   The city finds that it is not technically possible or
aesthetically desirable to mount the antenna on a wall;
         (b)   No portion of the antenna or base station causes the height of
the building to exceed the limitations set forth herein;
         (c)   The antenna or antennas and related base stations cover no more
than an aggregate total of 25% of the roof area of a building;
         (d)   Roof-mounted antenna and related base stations are completely
screened from view by materials that are consistent and compatible with the
design, color, and materials of the building; and
         (e)   No portion of the antenna may exceed ten feet above the height
of the existing building.
      (9)   If a proposed antenna is located on a building or a lot subject to
a site review, approval is required prior to the issuance of a building permit.
      (10)   No antenna shall be permitted on property designated as an
individual landmark or as a part of a historic district, unless such antenna
has been approved in accordance with this code.
      (11)   No antenna owner or lessee, or officer or employee thereof, shall
fail to cooperate in good faith to accommodate other competitors in their
attempts to use the same building for other antennas. If a dispute arises about
the feasibility of accommodating another competitor, the Mayor may require a
third-party technical study, at the expense of either or both parties, to
resolve the dispute.
      (12)   No antenna owner or lessee shall fail to assure that the antenna
complies at all times with the then current applicable American National
Standards Institute or FCC standards, whichever is more stringent. After
installation, but prior to putting the antenna in service, each antenna owner
shall provide a certification by an independent professional engineer to that
effect.
      (13)   No antenna shall cause localized interference with the reception
of any other communications signals, including, but not limited to, public
safety signals and television and radio broadcast signals.
      (14)   No person shall locate an antenna or tower upon any lot or parcel,
except as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 70.16) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999)
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.933 OTHER PERMITTED USES.
   In M-2 and M-3 Zoning Districts, antennas and associated unmanned equipment
buildings are permitted as a matter of right subject to the requirements of
this subchapter and the following standards:
   (A)   The antenna is attached to the roof or sides of a building at least 30
feet in height, an existing tower, a water tank, or a similar structure;
   (B)   The following antenna are permitted under the provisions of this
section:
      (1)   Omnidirectional or whip antennas no more than seven inches in
diameter and extending no more than ten feet above the structure to which they
are attached; or
      (2)   Panel antennas no more than two feet wide and six feet long,
extending above the structure to which they are attached by no more than ten
feet.
   (C)   (1)   Antennas, antenna arrays, and support structures not on
publicly-owned property which shall not extend more than ten feet above the
highest point of the structure on which they are mounted.
      (2)   The antenna, antenna array, and its support structure shall be
mounted so as to blend with the structure to which the antenna is attached. The
antenna and its support structure shall be designed to withstand a wind force
of 100 miles per hour without the use of supporting guy wires.
   (D)   The antenna, antenna array, and its support structure shall be a color
that blends with the structure on which they are mounted;
   (E)   No such antenna, antenna array, or its support structure shall be
erected or maintained closer to any street than the minimum setback for the
zone in which they are located; and
   (F)   No guy or other support wires shall be used in connection with such
antenna, antenna array, or its support structure, except when used to anchor
the antenna, antenna array, or support structure to an existing building to
which such antenna, antenna array, or support structure is attached.
(Prior Code, § 70.18) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999)
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.934 INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Each year after a facility becomes operational, the facility operator shall
conduct a safety inspection in accordance with the EIA and FCC standards and,
within 60 days of the inspection, file a report with the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 70.20) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999)
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.935 LANDSCAPING/SCREENING.
   (A)   Landscaping, as described herein, shall be required to screen as much
of the support structure as possible, the fence surrounding the support
structure, and any other ground-level features (such as a building), and in
general soften the appearance of the cell site.
         (1)   The city may permit any combination of existing vegetation,
topography, walls, decorative fences, or other features instead of landscaping
if they achieve the same degree of screening as the required landscaping.
         (2)   If the antenna is mounted flush on an existing building, and
other equipment is housed inside an existing structure, landscaping shall not
be required.
   (B)   (1)   The visual impacts of a tower shall be mitigated through
landscaping or other screening materials at the base of the tower and ancillary
structures.
      (2)   The following landscaping and buffering of towers shall be required
around the perimeter of the tower and accessory structures, except that the
standards may be waived by the city for those sides of the proposed tower that
are located adjacent to undevelopable lands and lands not in public view:
         (a)   Landscaping shall be installed on the outside of fences.
Further, existing vegetation shall be preserved to the maximum extent
practicable and may be used as a substitute for, or in supplement towards,
meeting landscaping requirements.
         (b)   A row of evergreen trees a minimum of ten feet tall at planting,
a maximum of six feet apart, shall be planted around the perimeter of the
fence.
         (c)   A continuous hedge at least 36 inches high at planting capable
of growing to at least 48 inches in height within 18 months shall be planted in
front of the tree line referenced above.
(Prior Code, § 70.22) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 157.936 NON-USE; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   In the event the use of any tower has been discontinued for a period
of 60 consecutive days, the tower shall be deemed to be abandoned.
   (B)   Determination of the date of abandonment shall be made by the city,
which shall have the right to request documentation and/or affidavits from the
tower owner/operator regarding the issue of tower usage.
   (C)   Upon such abandonment, the owner/operator of the tower shall have an
additional 60 days within which to:
      (1)   Reactivate the use of the tower or transfer the tower to another
owner/operator who makes actual use of the tower; or
      (2)   If such tower is not removed within said 60 days, the city may
remove such tower at the owner’s expense. If there are two or more users of a
single tower, then this provision shall not become effective until all users
cease using the tower.
   (D)   At the earlier of 60 days from the date of abandonment without
reactivation or upon completion of dismantling and removal, city approval for
the tower shall automatically expire.
(Prior Code, § 70.24) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 157.937 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Application submission for special use, variance, and building permit
requests may utilize any combination of site plans, surveys, maps, technical
reports, or written narratives necessary to convey the following information:
   (A)   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type, and height
of the proposed tower, on-site land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses and
zoning, adjacent roadways, proposed means of access, setbacks from property
lines, elevation drawings of the proposed tower, and any other proposed
structures;
   (B)   A current map and aerial provided to, or obtained from, the City
Planning Pffice showing the location of the proposed tower;
   (C)   Legal description of the parcel, if applicable;
   (D)   If not within the separation distance from residential areas,
approximate distance between the proposed tower and the nearest residential
unit, platted residentially-zoned properties, and unplatted residentially zoned
properties. If within the separation distance requirements, then exact
distances, locations, and identifications of said properties shall be shown on
an updated city map;
   (E)   A landscape plan showing specific landscape materials;
   (F)   Method of fencing and finished color, and, if applicable, the method
of camouflage and illumination;
   (G)   A notarized letter signed by the applicant stating the tower will
comply with all EIA standards and all applicable federal and state laws and
regulations, and this code, including specifically FAA regulations;
   (H)   A statement by the applicant as to whether construction of the tower
will accommodate co-location of additional antenna for future users;
   (I)   Certification that the antenna usage will not interfere with other
adjacent or neighboring transmission or reception functions;
   (J)   The telecommunications company must demonstrate that it is licensed by
the FCC;
   (K)   The applicant, if not the telecommunications service provider, shall
submit proof of lease agreements with an FCC-licensed telecommunications
provider;
   (L)   A full-site plan shall be required for all cell sites, showing the
antenna, antenna support structure, building, fencing, buffering, access, and
all other items required in this subchapter. The site plan shall not be
required if the antenna is to be mounted on an existing structure;
   (M)   At the time of site selection, the applicant should demonstrate how
the proposed site fits into its overall network within the city; and
   (N)   This subchapter shall apply to all applications which were filed prior
to the effective date hereof, and which have not been approved by the City
Council as of the effective date of this subchapter, and to applications filed
thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 70.26) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 157.938 THIRD-PARTY REVIEW.
   (A)   Personal wireless service providers use various methodologies and
analysis tools, including geographically-based computer software, to determine
the specific technical parameters of personal wireless services and low-power
mobile radio service facilities, such as expected coverage area, antenna
configuration, topographic constraints that affect signal paths, and the like.
   (B)   In certain instances, there may be a need for expert review by a third
party of the technical data submitted by the personal wireless services or low-
power mobile radio service provider.
   (C)   The City Council or the Zoning Board may require such a technical
review, to be paid for by the applicant for the personal wireless service or
low-power mobile radio service facilities.
   (D)   The selection of the third-party expert may be by mutual agreement
among the applicant and city, or at the discretion of the city, with a
provision for the applicant and interested parties to comment on the proposed
expert and review its qualifications.
   (E)   The expert review is intended to be a site-specific review of
technical aspects of the personal wireless service or low-power mobile radio
service facilities, and not a subjective review of the site selection.
   (F)   Such a review should address the accuracy and completeness of the
technical data, whether the analysis techniques and methodologies are
legitimate, the validity of the conclusions, and any specific technical issues
outlined by the City Council, Zoning Board, city staff, or interested parties.
   (G)   Based on the results of the third-party review, the city may require
changes to the application for the personal wireless service or low-power
mobile radio service facilities that comply with the recommendations of the
expert.
   (H)   The expert review of the technical submission shall address the
following:
      (1)   The accuracy and completeness of submissions;
      (2)   The applicability of analysis techniques and methodologies;
      (3)   The validity of conclusions reached; and
      (4)   Any specific technical issues designated by the city.
(Prior Code, § 70.28) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 157.939 REMEDIES.
   In addition to receiving any monetary remuneration, the city shall have the
right to seek injunctive relief for any and all violations of this subchapter,
and all other remedies provided at law or in equity.
(Prior Code, § 70.30) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999)
Penalty, see §
157.999
RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR ELDERLY PERSONS; PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES; OTHER
FACILITIES
§ 157.950 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to comply with UCA §§ 10-9a-516 through
10-9a-520, as amended, and to avoid discrimination in housing against persons
with disabilities pursuant to the State Fair Housing Act, being UCA §§ 57-21-
1 et seq., and the Federal Fair Housing Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2012, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 157.951 SCOPE.
   If any facility, residence, congregate living, or other housing arrangement
meets the definition of a residential facility for elderly persons or a
residential facility for persons with a disability, or other facility as set
forth in this subchapter, the requirements of this subchapter shall govern the
same notwithstanding any conflicting provisions of this subchapter or this
code. Except as provided herein, the requirements of this subchapter shall not
be constructed to prohibit or limit other applicable provisions of this code,
or other local, state, or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2012, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 157.952 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY.
      (1)   A TYPE I ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY is a residential facility,
licensed by the state, with a home-like setting that provides assistance with
activities of daily living and social care to two or more residents who require
protected living arrangements and are capable of achieving mobility sufficient
to exit the facility without the assistance of another person.
      (2)   A TYPE II ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY is a residential facility,
licensed by the state, with a home-like setting that provides an array of
coordinated supportive personal and health care services, available 24 hours
per day, to residents who have been assessed under the State Department of
Health rules to need any of these services.
      (3)   Each resident of a type I or type II ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY shall
have a service plan based on the assessment, which may include specified
services of intermediate nursing care; administration of medication; and
support services promoting the resident’s independence and self-sufficiency.
   DISABILITY. Physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more of a person’s major life activities, including a person having a record of
such an impairment or being regarded as having such an impairment. DISABILITY
does not include current illegal use of, or addition to, any federally-
controlled substance as defined in § 102 of the Controlled Substances Act, 21
U.S.C. § 802, or as defined under UCA Title 58, Chapter 37, as amended.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 60 years old or older, who desires or needs
to live with other elderly persons in a group setting but who is capable of
living independently.
   NURSING CARE FACILITY. An intermediate care/nursing facility or a skilled
nursing facility licensed by the state for the care of individuals who, due to
illness, advanced age, disability, or impairment, require assistance and/or
supervision on a 24-hour per day basis. Such a facility does not include an
adult day care facility or adult day care provider in conjunction with
residential facilities for elderly persons, or a residential facility for
persons with a disability.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS. A dwelling unit that is occupied
on a 24-hour per day basis by eight or fewer elderly persons in a family-type
arrangement. A RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS:
      (1)   Cannot be operated as a business; provided that such facility may
not be considered to be operated as a business solely because a fee is charged
for food or for actual and necessary costs of preparation and maintenance of
the facility;
      (2)   Must be owned by one of the residents or by an immediate family
member of one of the residents, or for which title has been placed in trust for
one of the residents;
      (3)   Must be consistent with any existing, applicable land use
ordinances affecting the desired location;
      (4)   Placement in a residential facility for elderly persons must be on
a strictly voluntary basis and not a part of, or in lieu of, confinement,
rehabilitation, or treatment in a correctional institution or facility;
      (5)   No person being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse may be placed
in a residential facility for elderly persons;
      (6)   Residential facilities for elderly persons must be reasonably
dispersed throughout the city and cannot be located within three-fourths of a
mile of another residential facility for elderly persons, or residential
facilities for persons with disabilities;
      (7)   The facility must meet each building safety, land use, and health
ordinance applicable to similar dwellings, and must provide adequate off-street
parking; and
      (8)   The facility must be capable for use as a residential facility for
elderly persons without structural or landscaping alterations that would change
the structure’s residential character.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY.
      (1)   A residence in which more than one person with a disability resides
and which is:
         (a)   Licensed or certified by the Department of Human Services under
Title 62A, Chapter 2, of the Utah Code, “Licensure of Programs and Facilities;
or
         (b)   Licensed or certified by the Department of Human Health under
Title 26, Chapter 21, Heath Care Facility Licensing and Inspection Act.
      (2)   Further, a RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY shall
have the following requirements.
         (a)   No facility shall be made available to an individual who has
demonstrated, by prior behavior, actions, and/or criminal convictions, or as a
resident, that he or she may be determined to be, or does constitute, a
substantial risk or direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals,
or has, or may engage in, conduct resulting in substantial physical damage to
the property of others.
         (b)   Minimum site development standards shall be the same as those
for a dwelling unit in the zone in which the facility is located.
         (c)   The facility shall be capable of being used as a residential
facility for persons with a disability without structural or landscaping
alterations that would change the structure’s residential character.
         (d)   The use granted and permitted by this subchapter in non-
transferable and terminates if the structure is devoted to any use other than
as a residential facility for persons with a disability or a residential care
facility for persons with a disability, or if the structure fails to comply
with the applicable health, safety, zoning, and building codes.
         (e)   No residential facilities for persons with a disability or
residential care facility for persons with a disability shall be reasonably
dispersed within the city. No such facility may be established or maintained
within three-fourths of a mile measured in a straight line between the closet
property lines of the lots or parcels of another facility regulated by the
State Department of Human Services, another residential facility for disabled
persons, or a residential facility for elderly persons.
         (f)   In zones that allow residential uses, no residential facility
for persons with a disability may exceed eight residents. A maximum of 18 total
persons is permitted (including staff and the family that owns the residence).
(Prior Code, § 72.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2012, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 157.953 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Residential facilities for elderly persons. Notwithstanding any
contrary provision of this subchapter, residential facilities for elderly
persons shall be permitted uses in any zone where residential dwellings are
allowed, except for a zone regulated exclusively for single-family residences.
A use permitted by this subchapter for a residential facility for elderly
persons is non-transferable and shall terminate if:
      (1)   The facility is devoted to a use other that a residential facility
for elderly persons;
      (2)   Any license or certification issued by the State Department of
Health Services for such facility terminates or is revoked; and/or
      (3)   The facility fails to comply with the requirements set forth in
this subchapter.
   (B)   Residential facilities for disabled persons.
      (1)   Residential facilities for disabled persons are permitted uses in
this chapter in zones where similar facilities that are not residential
facilities for disabled persons are allowed. However, a facility that would
likely create a fundamental change in the character of a residential
neighborhood may be excluded form that zone.
      (2)   A use permitted by this subchapter for a residential facility for
disabled persons is non-transferable and shall terminate if:
         (a)   The facility is devoted to a use other than a residential
facility for disabled persons;
         (b)   Any license or certification issued by the State Department of
Health or the State Department of Human Services for such a facility terminates
or is revoked; and/or
         (c)   The facility fails to comply with requirements set forth in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2012, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 157.954 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Assisted living centers are conditional uses in all Residential and
Agricultural Zones. (See §§ 157.515 through 157.529 on conditional uses
regarding health and safety of the surrounding area, including traffic,
parking, and the like.)
   (B)   Assisted living centers are limited to the following in Residential
and Agricultural Zones:
      (1)   A maximum of 12 rooms and a maximum of 16 residents, with no more
than two residents per room, on one acre of ground;
      (2)   A maximum of 25 rooms and maximum of 30 residents, with no more
than two residents per room, on two acres; and
      (3)   No assisted living centers may be located within a one-half mile of
an existing assisted living center.
(Prior Code, § 72.10) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2012, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 157.955 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The development standard set forth in this section shall apply to any
residential facility for elderly persons or residential facility for persons
with a disability:
   (A)   Building safety and health regulations. All facilities shall comply
with any building safety and health regulations applicable to similar
structures.
      (1)   Each facility shall be subject to the same development standards
applicable to similar structures located in the same zoning district in which
the facility is located.
      (2)   The minimum number of parking spaces required for a facility shall
be the same as for similar structures located in the same zoning district in
which the facility is located.
   (B)   No dangerous persons permitted. No facility may be made available to
an individual who has demonstrated, by prior behavior, actions, and/or criminal
convictions, or as a resident, that he or she:
      (1)   May be determined to be, or does constitute, a direct threat or
substantial risk to the health or safety of other individuals; or
      (2)   Has, or may engage in, conduct resulting in substantial physical
damage to the property of others.
   (C)   License and certifications.
      (1)   Prior to occupancy of any facility or the issuance of a business
license, building permit, or conditional use permit, the person or entity
operating the facility shall:
         (a)   Provide to the city a copy of any license or certifications
required by the State Department of Health or the State Department of Human
Services; and
         (b)   Certify in a sworn statement that no person will reside or
remain in the facility whose tendency would:
            1.   Constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals; or
            2.   Result in substantial physical damage to the property of
others.
      (2)   If, after a reasonable investigation, staff or the City Council
determines a residential facility for persons with a disability might create a
fundamental change in the character of a neighborhood, the item shall be
scheduled for a public hearing before the City Council.
      (3)   The City Council, acting as the Land Use Authority, may exclude the
facility from a zone if it finds that the proposed residential facility for
persons with a disability would likely create a fundamental change in the
character of a residential neighborhood.
      (4)   The factors to be analyzed in determining whether a fundamental
change in the character of a residential neighborhood might be caused include,
but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Impact on traffic congestion;
         (b)   Availability of adequate parking;
         (c)   The business nature of a proposed facility in an area zoned for
exclusively residential uses, including whether the proposed facility will
offer outpatient services;
         (d)   Hours of operation;
         (e)   Safety and security measures for the proposed facility; and
         (f)   Other similar concerns.
(Prior Code, § 72.12) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 03-2012, passed 4-4-
2012) Penalty, see §
157.999
TIMESHARES
§ 157.970 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   TIMESHARE. A form of residential real estate ownership in which separate
housing unit ownership is represented as shares in a corporation, a partnership
interest, or any other individually-owned transferable property right or
interest, and which grants housing unit ownership, use, and occupancy rights to
each owner for an annually-recurring part, or parts, of a calendar year only as
specified in a condominium declaration or other ownership document.
   TIMESHARE BUILDING. A residential building which is wholly devoted to
timeshare housing units. Because of the unique operational characteristics,
individual transient usage resembling a resort hotel operation and impact on a
normal, residential environment, a TIMESHARE BUILDING is classified as a
separate use category.
(Prior Code, § 74.02) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992)
§ 157.971 USE REGULATIONS.
   No ownership interest in a dwelling unit, dwelling apartment, or condominium
project shall be conveyed or transferred by deed or contract for a specified
annually-recurring period, or periods, of time unless such unit, dwelling, or
project is located in a zone which allows timeshare buildings as a permitted or
conditional use.
(Prior Code, § 74.04) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.972 ESTABLISHING TIMESHARES.
   No unit in a dwelling, apartment, or condominium building shall be
established as, or converted, to a timeshare unless all of the units in the
building are likewise established or converted at the same time.
(Prior Code, § 74.06) (Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
LANDSCAPING STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 157.985 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This subchapter is established to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the public by enhancing the aesthetic quality of residential and
commercial areas while promoting water-efficient landscaping.
(Ord. 13-2022, passed 7-6-2022)
§ 157.986 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE RECREATION AREA. An area that is dedicated to active play, including
where turf may provide a playing surface.
   BUBBLER. An irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by flooding
the planted area, usually measured in gallons per minute. BUBBLERS exhibit a
trickle, umbrella or short stream pattern.
   CHECK VALVE. A device used in sprinkler heads or pipe to prevent water from
draining out of the pipe through gravity flow. Used to prevent pollution or
contamination of the water supply due to the reverse flow of water.
   DRIP EMITTER. Drip irrigation fittings that deliver water slowly at the root
zone of the plant, usually measured in gallons per hour.
   EVAPOTRANSPIRATION (ET). The quantity of water evaporated from adjacent soil
and other surfaces and transpired by plants during a specified time, expressed
in inches per day, month or year.
   GRADING PLAN. The grading plan shows all finish grades, spot elevations as
necessary and existing and new contours with the developed landscape area.
   GROUND COVER. Material planted in such a way as to form a continuous cover
over the ground.
   GROUND PLANE COVERAGE. Vegetative cover of the horizontal surfaces of a
landscaped area. Canopies of deciduous trees shall not be counted toward the
coverage calculation.
   HARDSCAPE. Durable landscape materials, such as concrete, wood, stone or
brick pavers, or compacted organic mulch.
   IRRIGATION EFFICIENCY. The measurement of the amount of water beneficially
applied, divided by the total amount of water applied. IRRIGATION EFFICIENCY is
derived from measurements and estimates of irrigation system hardware
characteristics and management practices.
   IRRIGATION PLAN. The irrigation plan shows the components of the irrigation
system with water meter size, backflow prevention (when outdoor irrigation is
supplied with culinary water), precipitation rates, flow rate and operating
pressure for each irrigation circuit and identification of all irrigation
equipment.
   LANDSCAPED AREA. Improved areas of the property that make up the landscape.
The LANDSCAPED AREA does not include building or structure footprints,
sidewalks and other non- irrigated natural areas intentionally left
undeveloped.
   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT. A person who holds a certificate to practice landscape
architecture in the State of Utah. Only a LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT can legally
create commercial landscape plans.
   LANDSCAPE DESIGNER. A person who may or may not hold professional
certificates for landscape design/architecture and cannot legally create
commercial landscape plans. LANDSCAPE DESIGNERS generally focus on residential
design and horticultural needs of home landscapes.
   LANDSCAPE PLAN. The landscape plan shows the design of the landscape with
natural features such as plantings, ground and water forms, circulation, walks,
hardscape and other features to comply with this subchapter. Types of plantings
are identified, and quantities included. A landscape and open space percentage
of the site is also included to ensure conformance with the minimum
requirements of the zone in which the development is located.
   LANDSCAPE ZONE. A portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar
water needs, areas with similar microclimate (i.e., slope, exposure, wind and
the like) and soil conditions, and areas that will be similarly irrigated. A
LANDSCAPE ZONE can be served by one irrigation valve, or a set of valves with
the same schedule.
   LANDSCAPING. Any combination of living plants, such as trees, shrubs, vines,
ground covers, flowers or grass; natural features such as rock, stone or bark
chips; and structural features, including, but not limited to, fountains,
reflecting pools, outdoor art work, screen walls, fences or benches.
   LOCALSCAPES®. A locally adaptable and environmentally sustainable urban
landscape style that requires less irrigation than traditional Utah landscapes
(see www.Localscapes.com).
   MULCH. Any material such as rock, bark, wood chips or other materials left
loose and applied to the soil.
   OPEN SPACE. An area which is completely free and unobstructed from any
building or structure. Landscaping, walkways, covered patios, light poles and
other ornamental features shall not be considered obstructions for the purposes
of this definition. Areas used for storm drainage shall not be eligible for
inclusion in a required OPEN SPACE area. Utility corridors shall only be
counted toward the OPEN SPACE requirement if improved as an accessible amenity
to the project or the community as a whole.
   PARK STRIP. A typically narrow landscaped area located between the back-of-
curb and sidewalk.
   PLANNED SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. A planned single-family
development with specific open space and/or amenity standards that are required
by the zone or a development agreement, and in which common open spaces will be
maintained by a homeowner’s association or organization.
   PLANTER BED. Any irrigated, non-turf portion of the landscaped area.
   PLANTING PLAN. A planting plan shall clearly and accurately identify and
locate new and existing trees, shrubs, ground covers, turf areas, driveways,
sidewalks, hardscape features and fences.
   POP-UP SPRAY HEAD. A sprinkler head that sprays water through a nozzle in a
fixed pattern with no rotation.
   PRECIPITATION RATE. The depth of water applied to a given area, usually
measured in inches per hour.
   PRESSURE COMPENSATING. A drip irrigation system that compensates for
fluctuating water pressure by only allowing a fixed volume of water through
drip emitters.
   PUBLIC FACILITY. A government, educational or non-profit organization that
provides services to the general public.
   REHABILITATED LANDSCAPING. Altering, repairing or adding to a landscape to
make possible a compatible use, increase curb appeal, decrease maintenance and
the like.
   ROTOR SPRAY HEAD. A sprinkler head that distributes water through a nozzle
by the rotation of a gear or mechanical rotor.
   RUNOFF. Irrigation water that is not absorbed by the soil or landscape area
to which it is applied, and which flows onto other areas.
   SMART AUTOMATIC IRRIGATION CONTROLLER. An automatic timing device used to
remotely control valves in the operation of an irrigation system using the
internet to connect to a real time weather source or soil moisture sensor.
SMART AUTOMATIC IRRIGATION CONTROLLERS schedule irrigation events using either
evapotranspiration or soil moisture data to control when and how long
sprinklers or drip systems operate and will vary based on time of year and
weather/soil moisture conditions.
   SPRAY SPRINKLER. An irrigation head that sprays water through a nozzle.
   STREAM SPRINKLER. An irrigation head that projects water through a gear
rotor in single or multiple streams.
   TURF. A surface layer of earth containing grass species with full root
structures that are maintained as mowed grass.
   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not necessarily limited to:
      (1)   The use of water for any purpose, including outdoor irrigation,
that consumes or for which is applied substantial excess water beyond the
reasonable amount required by the use, whether such excess water is lost due to
evaporation, percolation, discharges into the sewer system, or is allowed to
run into the gutter or street; or
      (2)   Washing sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, tennis courts, patios
or other paved areas, except to alleviate immediate health or safety hazards.
   WATER-CONSERVING PLANT. A plant that can generally survive with available
rainfall once established although supplemental irrigation may be needed or
desirable during periods of dry and warm weather.
(Ord. 13-2022, passed 7-6-2022)
§ 157.987 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all new and rehabilitated
landscaping for public facility projects, commercial and industrial projects,
multi-family residential projects and landscaping for new single-family
residential dwellings and fully rehabilitated single-family residential
landscapes.
(Ord. 13-2022, passed 7-6-2022)
§ 157.988 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, MULTI-FAMILY AND PUBLIC FACILITY DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS.
   (A)   Open space. Commercial, manufacturing, multi-family, and public
facility developments: landscaping for commercial, manufacturing, multi-family
and public facility developments shall comply with the requirements of West
Haven City “Site Plan and Design Review” ordinances. All open space required
shall be landscaped with a minimum of one tree for every 400 square feet of
landscaped area and one shrub for every 200 square feet of landscaped area.
Planter beds shall be planted to provide a minimum of 50% ground plane coverage
when plant material reaches maturity. Canopies of deciduous trees shall not
count towards the coverage calculation. Park strips are exempt from the ground
plane coverage requirements.
   (B)   Landscape design standards.
      (1)   Plant selection.
         (a)   Plants shall be well-suited to conditions at the project site.
Both native and locally adapted plants are acceptable. Plants with similar
water needs shall be grouped together as much as possible. Areas with slopes
greater than 33% shall be landscaped with deep-rooting, water-conserving plants
for erosion control and soil stabilization.
         (b)   Park strips and other landscaped areas less than eight feet wide
shall not be landscaped with turf and shall be maintained free of weeds. Any
hardscape installed within a park strip shall cover no more than 50% of the
park strip area, unless otherwise required by city code.
         (c)   Turf area shall not exceed 15% of the total landscaped area,
outside of active recreation areas.
         (d)   Note: Please visit weberbasin.com for a list of recommended
water-conserving plants (not a comprehensive list).
      (2)   Mulch. After completion of planting, all irrigated non-turf areas
shall be covered with a minimum three-inch layer of mulch to retain water,
inhibit weed growth and moderate soil temperature. Non-porous material such as
concrete or asphalt shall not be placed under the mulch.
      (3)   Tree selection. Tree species shall be selected based on growth
characteristics and site conditions, including available space, overhead
clearance, soil conditions, exposure and desired color and appearance. Trees
shall be selected as follows:
         (a)   Broad canopy trees shall be selected where shade or screening of
tall objects is desired;
         (b)   Low-growing trees shall be selected for spaces under utility
wires;
         (c)   Trees shall be selected from which lower branches can be trimmed
to maintain a healthy growth habit where vision clearance and natural
surveillance is a concern;
         (d)   Narrow or columnar trees shall be selected where awnings or
other building features limit growth, or where greater visibility is desired
between buildings and the street for natural surveillance;
         (e)   Street trees shall be planted within existing and proposed park
strips, and in sidewalk tree wells on streets without park strips. Tree
placement shall provide canopy cover (shade) and avoid conflicts with existing
trees, retaining walls, utilities, lighting and other obstacles. All street
trees shall comply with the clear vision standards of this subchapter; and
         (f)   All trees to be installed on public property or on property to
be maintained by the city shall be subject to approval by the City Arborist or
designee.
      (4)   Plant material size at installation.
         (a)   Deciduous trees shall be installed at a minimum size of two
inches in caliper, measured eight inches above the soil line.
         (b)   Evergreen trees shall be installed at a minimum height of six
feet.
         (c)   Shrubs shall be installed at a minimum size of three gallons.
         (d)   Ornamentals grasses and perennials shall be installed at a
minimum size of one gallon.
         (e)   Ground cover shall be installed at a minimum height of three
inches.
   (C)   Landscape and irrigation plan submittal. A copy of a landscape and
irrigation plan shall be submitted to and approved by the city prior to the
issue of any permit. The plans shall be prepared by a registered landscape
architect and shall consist of the following items:
      (1)   Landscape plan. A detailed landscape plan shall be drawn at a scale
that clearly identifies the following:
         (a)   Project name and address, and landscape architect’s information;
         (b)   Location of all plant materials, a legend with botanical and
common names and size of plant materials;
         (c)   Location of landscape features, ground and water forms, walks,
hardscape, mulch and other features;
         (d)   Property lines and street names;
         (e)   Existing and proposed buildings, walls, fences, utilities, paved
areas and other site improvements;
         (f)   Existing trees and plant materials to be removed or retained;
         (g)   Scale: graphic and written;
         (h)   Date of design;
         (i)   Designation of a landscape zone; and
         (j)   Details and specifications for tree staking, soil preparation
and other planting work.
      (2)   Irrigation plan. A detailed irrigation plan shall be drawn at the
same scale as the planting plan and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Layout of the irrigation system and a legend summarizing the
type and size of all components of the system, including manufacturer name and
model numbers;
         (b)   Static water pressure in pounds per square inch (PSI) at the
point of connection to the public water supply;
         (c)   Flow rate in gallons per minute and design operating pressure in
psi for each valve and precipitation rate in inches per hour for each valve
with sprinklers; and
         (d)   Installation details for irrigation components.
   (D)   Plan review, construction inspection and post-construction monitoring.
      (1)   As part of the land use approval process, a copy of the landscape
and irrigation plans shall be submitted to the city for review and approval
before construction begins.
      (2)   All installers and designers shall meet state and local license,
insurance and bonding requirements, and be able to show proof of such.
      (3)   During construction, site inspection of the landscaping may be
performed by the city.
      (4)   Following construction and prior to issuing the approval for
occupancy, an inspection shall be scheduled with the Community Development
Department to verify compliance with the approved landscape plans.
      (5)   The city reserves the right to perform site inspections at any time
before, during or after the irrigation system and landscape installation, and
to require corrective measures if requirements of this subchapter are not
satisfied.
(Ord. 13-2022, passed 7-6-2022)
§ 157.989 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Landscape design standards.
      (1)   Plant selection.
         (a)   Plants shall be well-suited to the microclimate and soil
conditions at the project site. Both native and locally adapted plants are
acceptable. Plants with similar water needs should be grouped together as much
as possible.
         (b)   Areas with slopes greater than 33% shall be landscaped with
deep-rooting, water- conserving plants for erosion control and soil
stabilization.
         (c)   Park strips and other landscaped areas less than eight feet wide
shall not be landscaped with turf and shall be maintained free of weeds.
Hardscape is permitted provided it does not interfere with the park strip’s
ability to capture storm water.
         (d)   Turf area shall not exceed 35% of the combined front and
interior side yard landscaped areas of the lot or parcel or 250 square feet,
whichever is greater.
         (e)   Please visit weberbasin.com for a list of recommended water-
conserving plants (not a comprehensive list).
      (2)   Mulch. After completion of all planting, all irrigated non-turf
areas and all non-irrigated park strip areas shall be covered with a minimum
three-inch layer of mulch to retain water, inhibit weed growth and moderate
soil temperature. Non-porous material shall not be placed under the mulch.
   (B)   Homebuilders and developers.
      (1)   Homebuilders and developers subdividing lots and/or constructing
new single-family residential homes within a planned development with common
ownership and maintenance of landscaped areas shall comply with all of the
water efficient landscaping and irrigation standards of this subchapter, and
provide water efficient designs, such as the Localscapes® design style, to
prospective home buyers.
      (2)   Any model home shall meet the water-efficient landscaping standards
of this chapter and provide an informational brochure on water-efficient
landscaping. Brochures can be obtained from the city’s Planning Division.
(Ord. 13-2022, passed 7-6-2022)
§ 157.990 IRRIGATION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Irrigation systems shall be designed to maximize irrigation
efficiency.
   (B)   Landscaped areas shall utilize a smart automatic irrigation
controller. Smart irrigation controllers shall be WaterSense® labeled and
automatically adjust the frequency and/or duration of irrigation events in
response to changing weather conditions. All controllers shall be equipped with
automatic rain delay or rain shut-off capabilities.
   (C)   Each valve shall irrigate a landscape with similar site, slope, and
soil conditions. Plants watered by a valve should have similar watering needs.
Turf and non-turf areas shall be irrigated on separate valves. Drip emitters
and sprinklers shall be placed on separate valves.
   (D)   Drip emitters or a bubbler shall be used for each tree. Bubblers shall
not exceed one and one- half gallons per minute per device. Bubblers for trees
shall be placed on a separate valve unless specifically exempted by the city
due to the limited number of trees on the project site. Drip irrigation or
bubblers shall be used to irrigate plants in non-turf areas.
   (E)   Pop-up spray heads shall be at a minimum of four inches in height to
avoid blockage from lawn foliage.
   (F)   Sprinkler heads shall be attached to rigid lateral lines with flexible
material (swing joints) to reduce potential for breakage.
   (G)   Check valves shall be required when attached to the city culinary
water system and where elevation differences cause low-head drainage. Pressure
compensating valves and sprinklers shall be required where a significant
variation in water pressure occurs within the irrigation system due to
elevation differences.
   (H)   Filters shall be required on all secondary water service connections.
Filters shall have as a minimum a 30 mesh screen and shall be cleaned and
maintained by the property owner on a regular basis.
   (I)   Drip irrigation lines require additional filtration at or after the
zone valve at a minimum of 200 mesh and end flush valves are required as
necessary for drip irrigation lines.
   (J)   Valves with spray or stream sprinklers shall be scheduled to operate
in accordance with local water supplier restrictions to reduce water loss from
wind, evaporation or other environmental conditions not suitable for
irrigation.
   (K)   Program valves for multiple repeat cycles where necessary to reduce
runoff, particularly on slopes and soils with slow infiltration rates.
(Ord. 13-2022, passed 7-6-2022)
§ 157.991 RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS REQUIRING TURF OR PLANT MATERIAL WITH UNIFORM
OVERHEAD SPRAY IRRIGATION.
   Any homeowners association governing documents, such as bylaws, operating
rules, covenants, conditions and restrictions that govern the operation of a
common interest development, shall not:
   (A)   Require the use of any uniform plant material requiring overhead spray
irrigation in landscape areas less than eight feet wide or require any uniform
plant material requiring overhead spray irrigation in other areas that exceed
35% of the landscaped area;
   (B)   Prohibit, or include conditions that have the effect of prohibiting,
the use of water-conserving plants as a group; or
   (C)   Have the effect of prohibiting or restricting compliance with this
subchapter or other water conservation measures.
(Ord. 13-2022, passed 7-6-2022)
§ 157.992 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Completion. All landscaping improvements required by this subchapter
shall be installed in accordance with the approved landscape and irrigation
plans as follows.
      (1)   Non-residential landscaping. Landscaping for commercial, industrial
and public facility projects shall be completed prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the building or structure with which it is
associated, or in cases of inclement weather, within six months of the date of
initial occupancy. The date of initial occupancy shall be the date that a
certificate of occupancy is issued for the first building or structure of an
individual phase or plat of the development.
      (2)   Multi-family residential. Landscaping for two-family and multiple-
family dwellings in all zones shall be completed prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the building or structure with which they are
associated, or in cases of inclement weather, within six months of the date of
initial occupancy. Date of initial occupancy will be the date that a
certificate of occupancy is issued for the first dwelling unit.
      (3)   Single-family residential. The front and side yards of all single-
family dwellings in all zones shall be landscaped within 12 months of the date
of initial occupancy for the building or structure with which they are
associated. The rear yard shall be landscaped within 18 months of the date of
initial occupancy. Date of initial occupancy will be the date that a
certificate of occupancy is issued for the dwelling unit.
   (B)   Bond/escrow required for nonresidential, two-family, and multiple-
family developments. In cases of inclement weather and in order to ensure that
all required landscaping is installed in an acceptable manner, the developer
shall post a separate cash bond with the city or establish an escrow account
with an appropriate financial institution. The cash bond or escrow account
shall be subject to approval by the Community Development Department, and shall
be in an amount equal to 110% of the estimated costs of construction and
installation of all required landscaping, parks, playgrounds, recreation
facilities, fences, walls and other amenities shown on the final landscape plan
or site plan, as applicable.
      (1)   The bond or escrow account shall be posted or established in
accordance with all other city regulations.
      (2)   The bond or escrow account shall be posted or established prior to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the site.
      (3)   The bond shall be accompanied by a schedule of anticipated
completion dates for such improvements. In no case shall the time period for
completion exceed the time periods set forth in division (A) above.
      (4)   In the event that the improvements are not completed in reasonable
conformance with said schedule, the city may undertake to complete the
improvements and pay for such improvements from the bond or escrow account.
      (5)   This section shall not pertain to the completion or installation of
private landscaping on individual building lots for single-family dwellings.
(Ord. 2015-19, passed 12-8-2015; Ord. 13-2022, passed 7-6-2022)
§ 157.993 TREE AND SHRUB REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC WAYS AND PLACES.
   (A)   Purpose. The city values its open spaces, both natural and enhanced,
and recognizes the importance of trees within the community. Not only do trees
add to the beauty of the community, but they stabilize surface drainage and
soil erosion. A well-designed landscape can reduce air and sound pollution,
regulate solar radiation and help with wind control.
   (B)   City Arborist.
      (1)   Created. The City Manager or designee shall appoint a City
Arborist.
      (2)   Duties and responsibilities. The City Arborist shall have authority
over all trees and shrubs located within the city’s rights-of-way, parks and
public places. On private, commercial and residential property, the City
Arborist shall have the authority over trees and shrubs which constitute a
public hazard or threat as described in the standards for specification manual.
   (C)   Planting trees, landscaping in city right-of-way. Tree planting on
public ways shall be coordinated with required open landscaping areas to
achieve the most effective use of these areas and to accomplish the purposes of
aesthetics and conservation. Street trees shall be selected based on growth
characteristics that are well suited to their environment. For a list of
permitted street trees, contact the City Arborist.
   (D)   Public rights-of-way tree and plant care. It is the duty of the owner
and occupant of any real property with frontage along a public sidewalk to
maintain any trees, shrubs and plant material between such property and the
curb line of the street. The city shall have the right, as determined by its
sole discretion after attempting to contact property owners, to plant, prune,
maintain and remove trees, plants, and shrubs within rights-of-way, streets,
and public property as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve
or enhance public grounds.
   (E)   Clear vision. All trees, shrubs and other plant material located
within the public rights-of-way or in public places shall comply with the clear
vision standards of this subchapter.
   (F)   Illegal to cut, injure or top trees.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove trees situated on
city property, including streets and roadways of the city, without obtaining
permission from the City Arborist for that purpose.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or
city department to top any tree on city property. TOPPING is the severe cutting
back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s
crown to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
Trees severely damaged by storms or other cause, or other obstructions where
other pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted from this division (F)
(2) at the determination of the City Arborist.
   (G)   Pruning, corner clearance. Every owner of any tree or shrub
overhanging any street, sidewalk or right-of-way within the city, shall prune
the branches so that such branches shall not severely obstruct the light from
any street lamp, obstruct the view of any street intersection, or obstruct and
create a hazard on a sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or
dangerous trees and shrubs, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a
menace to the safety of the public. The city shall have the right after
attempting to contact property owners to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with visibility of any traffic control device, sign
or sight triangle at intersections or constitutes a hazard on a sidewalk. Any
costs incurred by the city will be collected from the adjacent property owner.
   (H)   Appeal. Any person may appeal a decision of the City Arborist to the
City Manager, who may hear the matter and make a final decision within 60 days.
(Ord. 13-2022, passed 7-6-2022)
§ 157.994 SUPPLEMENTARY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Fee in lieu of open space. A fee in lieu of landscaped open space in
commercial, industrial, multi-family and public facility developments may be
permitted by the Planning Commission for required open space that is less than
5,000 square feet in size; provided that, the development can be adequately
served by existing parks and recreation facilities. The amount of the fee shall
be set forth in the city’s fee schedule. Any fee in lieu paid to the city shall
be set forth in a development agreement. Open space fees in lieu shall be held
by the city in a reserved account to be used solely for improvements to parks
and recreation facilities. Where possible, the fees collected by the city shall
be used to improve the park or open space nearest the location where those fees
were paid.
   (B)   Modification. The percentage of required landscaped open space may be
modified through a development agreement, subject to Planning Commission
recommendation and City Council approval. No modification shall be granted,
however, unless the following standards are met:
      (1)   The granting of the modification will not adversely affect the
rights of adjacent landowners or residents;
      (2)   The modification desired will not adversely affect the public
health, safety or general welfare; and
      (3)   The granting of the modification will not be opposed to the general
spirit and intent of this subchapter or the general plan.
   (C)   Preservation, maintenance and ownership.
      (1)   The Planning Commission and City Council shall require the
preservation, maintenance and ownership of all required open space for non-
residential, multi-family or planned single-family residential developments
through one or a combination of the following: Dedication of the land as a
public park or parkway system;
      (2)   Dedication of the land as permanent open space on the recorded
plat;
      (3)   Granting the city a permanent open space easement on the private
open spaces to guarantee that the open space remain perpetually in recreation
use, with ownership and maintenance being the responsibility of a homeowners’
association;
      (4)   Through compliance with the provisions of the condominium ownership
act as outlined in UCA Title 57, which provides for the payment of common
expenses for the upkeep of common areas and facilities;
      (5)   Landscaping for all single-family residential properties shall be
maintained in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and applicable
regulations of the zone in which the property is located; and
      (6)   In the event that open space or other required landscaping
improvements or facilities are not landscaped or maintained in a manner
consistent with the approved site plan or landscaping plan, the city may at its
option cause such landscaping or maintenance to be performed and assess the
costs to the affected property owner(s) or other responsible association or
entity.
(Ord. 13-2022, passed 7-6-2022)
§ 157.995 PROHIBITED WATERING PRACTICES.
   Regardless of the age of a development, water shall be properly used. Waste
of water is prohibited.
(Ord. 13-2022, passed 7-6-2022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.996 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Community Development Director or designee is authorized to enforce all
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 13-2022, passed 7-6-2022)
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Each day that a violation of §§
157.080 through
157.086 occurs, or continues, is a separate violation.
      (2)   For any violation of §§
157.080 through
157.086, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, may issue a
written citation or notice of violation to the owner specifying the violation
and the penalty to be imposed.
         (a)   For the first violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $500.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $750.
         (c)   For a third violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $1,000 plus revocation of any issued building permit or conditional
use permit. The owner shall then be ineligible to have a building permit or
conditional use permit reissued until the fine is paid and the structure
immediately removed.
         (d)   For any violation within any 12-month period following the third
violation, the penalty shall be $1,000 and the owner shall be permanently
ineligible to receive a building permit or conditional use permit for a
structure, and the structure is to be immediately removed.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.070.0100)
   (C)   (1)   Each day that a violation of §§
157.100 through
157.108 occurs, or continues, is a separate violation.
      (2)   For any violation of §§
157.100 through
157.108, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, may issue a
written citation or notice of violation to the owner specifying the violation
and the penalty to be imposed.
         (a)   For the first violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $500.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $750.
         (c)   For a third violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $1,000 plus revocation of any issued building permit or conditional
use permit. The owner shall then be ineligible to have a building permit or
conditional use permit reissued until the fine is paid and the structure
immediately removed.
         (d)   For any violation within any 12-month period following the third
violation, the penalty shall be $1,000 and the owner shall be permanently
ineligible to receive a building permit or conditional use permit for a
structure, and the structure is to be immediately removed.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.080.0100)
   (D)   (1)   Each day that a violation of §§
157.120 through
157.129 occurs, or continues, is a separate violation.
      (2)   For any violation of §§
157.120 through
157.129, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, may issue a
written citation or notice of violation to the owner specifying the violation
and the penalty to be imposed.
         (a)   For the first violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $500.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $750.
         (c)   For a third violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $1,000 plus revocation of any issued building permit or conditional
use permit. The owner shall then be ineligible to have a building permit or
conditional use permit reissued until the fine is paid and the structure
immediately removed.
         (d)   For any violation within any 12-month period following the third
violation, the penalty shall be $1,000 and the owner shall be permanently
ineligible to receive a building permit or conditional use permit for a
structure, and the structure is to be immediately removed.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.090.0100)
   (E)   (1)   Each day that a violation of §§
157.140 through
157.149 occurs, or continues, is a separate violation.
      (2)   For any violation of §§
157.140 through
157.149, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, may issue a
written citation or notice of violation to the owner specifying the violation
and the penalty to be imposed.
         (a)   For the first violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $500.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $750.
         (c)   For a third violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $1,000 plus revocation of any issued building permit or conditional
use permit. The owner shall then be ineligible to have a building permit or
conditional use permit reissued until the fine is paid and the structure
immediately removed.
         (d)   For any violation within any 12-month period following the third
violation, the penalty shall be $1,000 and the owner shall be permanently
ineligible to receive a building permit or conditional use permit for a
structure, and the structure is to be immediately removed.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.090.0100)
   (F)   (1)   Each day that a violation of §§
157.160 through
157.169 occurs, or continues, is a separate violation.
      (2)   For any violation of §§
157.160 through
157.169, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, may issue a
written citation or notice of violation to the owner specifying the violation
and the penalty to be imposed.
         (a)   For the first violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $500.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $750.
         (c)   For a third violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $1,000 plus revocation of any issued building permit or conditional
use permit. The owner shall then be ineligible to have a building permit or
conditional use permit reissued until the fine is paid and the structure
immediately removed.
         (d)   For any violation within any 12-month period following the third
violation, the penalty shall be $1,000 and the owner shall be permanently
ineligible to receive a building permit or conditional use permit for a
structure, and the structure is to be immediately removed.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.090.0100)
   (G)   (1)   Each day that a violation of §§
157.180 through
157.189 occurs, or continues, is a separate violation.
      (2)   For any violation of §§
157.180 through
157.189, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, may issue a
written citation or notice of violation to the owner specifying the violation
and the penalty to be imposed.
         (a)   For the first violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $500.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $750.
         (c)   For a third violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $1,000 plus revocation of any issued building permit or conditional
use permit. The owner shall then be ineligible to have a building permit or
conditional use permit reissued until the fine is paid and the structure
immediately removed.
         (d)   For any violation within any 12-month period following the third
violation, the penalty shall be $1,000 and the owner shall be permanently
ineligible to receive a building permit or conditional use permit for a
structure, and the structure is to be immediately removed.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.100.0100)
   (H)   (1)   Each day that a violation of §§
157.230 through
157.240 occurs or continues is a separate violation.
      (2)   For any violation of §§
157.230 through
157.240, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, may issue a
written citation or notice of violation to the owner specifying the violation
and the penalty to be imposed.
         (a)   For the first violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $500.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $750.
         (c)   For a third violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $1,000 plus revocation of any issued building permit or conditional
use permit. The owner shall then be ineligible to have a building permit or
conditional use permit reissued until the fine is paid and the structure
immediately removed.
         (d)   For any violation within any 12-month period following the third
violation, the penalty shall be $1,000 and the owner shall be permanently
ineligible to receive a building permit or conditional use permit for a
structure, and the structure is to be immediately removed.
(Prior Code, § 16.30.010)
   (I)   (1)   Each day that a violation of §§
157.255 through
157.264 occurs, or continues, is a separate violation.
      (2)   For any violation of §§
157.255 through
157.264, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, may issue a
written citation or notice of violation to the owner specifying the violation
and the penalty to be imposed.
         (a)   For the first violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $500.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $750.
         (c)   For a third violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $1,000 plus revocation of any issued building permit or conditional
use permit. The owner shall then be ineligible to have a building permit or
conditional use permit reissued until the fine is paid and the structure
immediately removed.
         (d)   For any violation within any 12-month period following the third
violation, the penalty shall be $1,000 and the owner shall be permanently
ineligible to receive a building permit or conditional use permit for a
structure, and the structure is to be immediately removed.
(Prior Code, § 18.16010.0100)
   (J)   (1)   Each day that a violation of §§
157.290 through
157.296 occurs, or continues, is a separate violation.
      (2)   For any violation of §§
157.290 through
157.296, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, may issue a
written citation or notice of violation to the owner specifying the violation
and the penalty to be imposed.
         (a)   For the first violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $500.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $750.
         (c)   For a third violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $1,000 plus revocation of any issued building permit or conditional
use permit. The owner shall then be ineligible to have a building permit or
conditional use permit reissued until the fine is paid and the structure
immediately removed.
         (d)   For any violation within any 12-month period following the third
violation, the penalty shall be $1,000 and the owner shall be permanently
ineligible to receive a building permit or conditional use permit for a
structure, and the structure is to be immediately removed.
(Prior Code, § 22.12.010)
   (K)   (1)   Each day that a violation of §§
157.310 through
157.315 occurs or continues is a separate violation.
      (2)   For any violation of §§
157.310 through
157.315, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, may issue a
written citation or notice of violation to the owner specifying the violation
and the penalty to be imposed.
         (a)   For the first violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $500.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $750.
         (c)   For a third violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $1,000 plus revocation of any issued building permit or conditional
use permit. The owner shall then be ineligible to have a building permit or
conditional use permit reissued until the fine is paid and the structure
immediately removed.
         (d)   For any violation within any 12-month period following the third
violation, the penalty shall be $1,000 and the owner shall be permanently
ineligible to receive a building permit or conditional use permit for a
structure, and the structure is to be immediately removed.
      (3)   Sections 157.310 through 157.315 shall be enforced based upon the
geographical map dated Friday, April 10, 2020, for any complaints about
preexisting nonconforming uses.
(Prior Code, § 23.12.010)
   (L)   (1)   Each day that a violation of §§
157.370 through
157.376 occurs, or continues, is a separate violation.
      (2)   For any violation of §§
157.370 through
157.376, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, may issue, a
written citation or notice of violation to the owner specifying the violation
and the penalty to be imposed.
         (a)   For the first violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $500.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $750.
         (c)   For a third violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $1,000 plus revocation of any issued building permit or conditional
use permit. The owner shall then be ineligible to have a building permit or
conditional use permit reissued until the fine is paid and the structure
immediately removed.
         (d)   For any violation within any 12-month period following the third
violation, the penalty shall be $1,000 and the owner shall be permanently
ineligible to receive a building permit or conditional use permit for a
structure, and the structure is to be immediately removed.
(Prior Code, § 28.12.10)
   (M)   (1)   Each day that a violation of §§
157.495 through
157.501 occurs, or continues, is a separate violation.
      (2)   For any violation of §§
157.495 through
157.501, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, may issue a
written citation or notice of violation to the owner specifying the violation
and the penalty to be imposed.
         (a)   For the first violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $500.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $750.
         (c)   For a third violation within any 12-month period, the penalty
shall be $1,000 plus revocation of the STR business license and land use
permit. The owner shall then be ineligible for an STR land use permit and an
STR business license for two years from the date of the third notice of
violation.
         (d)   For any violation within any 12-month period following the third
violation, the penalty shall be $1,000 and the STR owner shall be permanently
ineligible to receive an STR land use permit and an STR business license.
(Prior Code, § 34.06)
   (N)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
157.840 through
157.850 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
punished as provided by the laws of the state for Class B misdemeanors. Each
day’s failure of compliance shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty as provided for herein, any
license may be revoked by order of the city after a hearing has been held, to
which the owner and/or operator of the licensed use shall be invited, for the
purpose of hearing evidence from any interested party or administrative officer
as to the operator’s failure to fulfill and/or maintain the requirements of §§
157.840 through
157.850, or other ordinances of the city.
      (3)   Notice of hearing shall be given to the owner and/or operator at
least five days before the hearing. Notice sent by certified mail eight days
before the date of hearing shall be deemed to be sufficient.
(Prior Code, § 62.18.020)
   (O)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §
157.851 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
punished as provided by the laws of the state for Class B misdemeanors.
(Prior Code, § 62.22.060)
   (P)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions or
terms of §§
157.925 through
157.939 shall, upon conviction, be punishable by a fine not to exceed the sum
of $500 for each day during which the offense continued.
(Prior Code, § 70.30)
(Ord. 2-92, passed - -1992; Ord. 15-99, passed 12-1-1999; Ord. 23-2020, passed
6-17-2020; Ord. 11-2021, passed 2-17-2021; Ord. 29-2021, passed 7-21-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   LAND VACATIONS
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
V.   MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
      
VI.   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLANS
      
VII.   AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREAS
      
VIII.   PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
IX.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Electric, heat, and power franchise granted to Pacificorp,
6-91     8-21-1991   doing business as Power & Light Co., for a term of 25
                     years.
14-92    5-6-1992    Fuel supply franchise granted to Mountain Fuel Supply
                     Company for a term of 50 years.
(Prior Code, §13.08.030)
15-92    6-3-1992    Broadband telecommunication franchise granted to Insight
                     Communications Company, LP, for a term of 15 years.
07-2016  4-20-2016   Electric and power franchise granted to Rocky Mountain
                     Power for a term of ten years.
(Prior Code, §13.08.020)
                     Renewing a franchise agreement with California/
05-2017  2-15-2017   Massachusetts/Michigan/Utah, LLC, a cable franchise, for a
                     term of 15 years.
                    
 
TABLE II: LAND VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacation of the real property described as all of West
09-2007  8-15-2007   Haven Industrial Park Subdivision, Lot 10, and the
                     acceptance of Lots 10-A and 10-B.
(Prior Code, §14.02.190)
                     Vacation of the real property described as all of Haven
10-2007  8-15-2007   Estates Subdivision, Lot 1, and the acceptance of Lots 1-
                     A and 1-B.
                     Vacation of the real property described as all of West
11-2007  8-15-2007   Haven Rosewood Estates, Phase 2, Lots 214, 215, 220, and
                     221.
(Prior Code, §14.02.180)
12-2007  9-19-2007   Vacation of the real property described as all of West
                     Haven Stonefield Estates, Phase 2, Lot 43.
(Prior Code, §14.02.170)
16-2007  12-5-2007   Vacation of the real property described as all of Doxey
                     Acres Subdivision, Lots 5, 6, and 7.
(Prior Code, §14.02.160)
02-2008  2-20-2008   Vacation of the real property described as all of Horse
                     Acres Subdivision, Lot 2.
(Prior Code, §14.02.150)
03-2008  2-20-2008   Vacation of the real property described as all of Clay
                     Ranchettes Subdivision, Lot 1.
(Prior Code, §14.02.140)
                     Vacation of the real property described as all of Stone
                     Creek Canyon, Phase 3, less and except Building 15, Units
                     A, B, C, D, E, and F; Building 16, Units A, B, C, D, E,
04-2008  3-19-2008   and F; Building 17, Units B and C; Building 18, Units A,
                     B, C, D, E, and F; Building 19, Units A, B, C, D, E, and
                     F; Building 20, Units A, B, C, and D; and Building 22,
                     Units A, B, C, and E.
(Prior Code, §14.02.130)
                     Vacation of the real property described as all of Landmark
07-2008  4-16-2008   Plaza Condominiums, less and except for Building A, Units
                     1, 2, 3, and 4, and Building B, Units 1, 2, 3, and 4.
(Prior Code, §14.02.120)
                     Vacation of the real property described as all of the
08-2008  5-7-2008    Village at Childs Farms PUD, Phase 1, including Pads 21
                     through 28.
(Prior Code, §14.02.110)
                     Vacation of the real property described as the West Haven
12-2008  6-18-2008   Farms Subdivision, Phase 1, showing those easements for
                     the Hooper Slough.
(Prior Code, §14.02.100)
15-2008  8-6-2008    Vacation of the real property described as G. Holmes
                     Estates Subdivision, a one-lot subdivision.
(Prior Code, §14.02.090)
                     Vacation of the real property described as all of Gines,
19-2008  12-17-2008  two-lot subdivision, and the acceptance of Gines, four-lot
                     subdivision.
(Prior Code, §14.02.080)
09-2009  6-17-2009   Vacation of the real property described as R-Estates
                     Subdivision.
(Prior Code, §14.02.070)
03-2010  3-17-2010   Vacation of Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 13, 14, 15, 16, 27,
                     and 28 of the Joni Acres Subdivision.
(Prior Code, §14.02.060)
03-2011  5-18-2011   Vacation of Lot 88 of the Windsor Farms Subdivision, Phase
                     2.
(Prior Code, §14.02.050)
08-2012  9-19-2012   Vacation of Lots 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 of the Seclusion
                     Meadows Subdivision, 2.86 acres.
(Prior Code, §14.02.040)
06-2013  4-3-2013    Vacation of Lots 62, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, and 72 of the
                     Haven Estates Subdivision, Phases 2 and 3.
(Prior Code, §14.02.030)
07-2013  4-3-2013    Vacation of the real property described as all of Lot 1,
                     Olive Bluff Estates Subdivision, Phase 2.
(Prior Code, §14.02.020)
20-2013  12-18-2013  Vacation of the real property described as Gorder Aces
                     Subdivision, Phase 2.
(Prior Code, §14.02.010)
                     Vacation of the real property described as Secrist Acres
46-2020  11-18-2020  Subdivision, Lot 226, which contains a drainage and
                     conservation easement designation and limitation.
(Prior Code, §14.02.200)
                     Vacation of the real property described as Secrist Acres
12-2021  3-17-2021   Subdivision, Lot 227, which contains a drainage and
                     conservation easement designation and limitation.
(Prior Code, §14.02.210)
                     Vacation of the real property described as Haven Estates
14-2021  4-7-2021    Subdivision, Phase 2, Lot 67, which contains a open space
                     easement designation and limitation.
(Prior Code, §14.02.220)
                     Vacation of the drainage and conservation easement on Lot
02-2022  2-16-2022   224 of Secrist Acres Subdivision; establishing and
                     approving an amended plat for Secrist Acres Subdivision.
                     Vacation and termination of a certain drainage and
08-2022  5-4-2022    conservation easement on Lot 228 of Secrist Acres
                     Subdivision.
18-2024  5-15-2024   Vacation of HBH Development Plat.
19-2024  5-15-2024   Vacation of a certain private access and utility easement
                     within the HBH Development Plat.
36-2024  11-6-2024   Vacating Hunter Drive within West Haven City
                    
 
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexation of property located at 4479 W 3300 S, Section
-        - -         27, Township 6 north, Range 2 west, and to be zoned as A-
                     1.
(Prior Code, §14.04.010)
                     Annexation of property located at part of the southwest
9-91     12-23-1991  quarter and part of the southeast quarter of Section 25,
                     Township 6 north, Range 2 west.
(Prior Code, §14.04.070)
11-95    9-6-1995    Allowing the extension of the Commercial Zone to 1,300
                     feet west of 1900 W.
                     Disconnection of certain property in the city to the City
3-97     8-6-1997    of Roy, identifying the property as belonging to Barbara
                     A. Williamson.
(Prior Code, §14.04.060)
                     Acceptance of the amended plat for the lands and premises
9-97     11-5-1997   known generally as Rock Mountain Meadows Subdivision,
                     Phase 11, Lots 19 and 20.
(Prior Code, §14.06.010)
                     Annexation of certain property of the City of Ogden into
16-98    6-3-1998    the city, identifying the property as belonging to
                     Moulding Investments, LLC.
(Prior Code, §14.04.050)
                     Amended and re-recorded plat of the West Haven Industrial
08-2002  8-7-2002    Park to indicate the authorized creation of three one-acre
                     lots therein, namely Lots 15a, 15b, and 15c.
(Prior Code, §14.08.020)
                     Amended and re-recorded plat of the Clay Ranchettes
10-2002  9-18-2002   Subdivision to indicate the authorized creation of two
                     one-acre lots therein, located at 3643 S 2900 W.
(Prior Code, §14.08.010)
                     Annexation of property located at the southwest corner of
06-2005  2-2-2005    the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section
                     34, Township 6 north, Range 2 west.
(Prior Code, §14.04.040)
17-2007  11-7-2007   Annexation of property located at the northwest corner of
                     Section 34, Township 6 north, Range 2 west.
(Prior Code, §14.04.030)
01-2014  2-19-2014   Annexation of property located at 4479 W 3300 S, Section
                     5, Township 5 north, Range 2 west, and to be zoned as R-2.
(Prior Code, §14.04.020)
                     Annexation of property located at 3100 W 2100 S, from the
02-2014  2-19-2014   north quarter corner of Section 27, Township 6 north,
                     Range 2 west, to be zoned as A-1.
                     Annexation of the property located at 3333 W 1800 S, from
19-2014  11-19-2014  the north quarter corner of Section 27, to be zoned as R-
                     2.
                     Annexation of the property located at 3450 S 3500 W, all
10-2017  4-19-2017   of the property described in the Quitclaim deed, part of
                     the northwest quarter of Section 3, Township 5 north,
                     Range 2 west, to be zoned as R-2.
                     Annexation of the property located at 3312 W 3300 S, part
                     of the southwest quarter of Section 34, Township 6 north,
11-2017  4-19-2017   Range 2 west, to be zoned as R-2.5, excepting the first
                     300 feet on the west end adjacent to 3500 W is declared to
                     be zoned C-1.
                     Annexation of the property located at 4400 W 3300 S, part
19-2017  7-19-2017   of the northeast quarter of Section 5, Township 5 north,
                     Range 2 west, to be zoned as R-2.
                     Amending, readopting annexation policy, adding additional
13-2018  8-1-2018    land to certain areas, and incorporating an annexation
                     policy plan map for the city.
(Prior Code, §14.04.080)
                     Annexation of the property located at 3222 S 3500 W, part
08-2019  5-15-2019   of the southwest quarter of Section 34, Township 6 north,
                     Range 2 west, and to be zoned as R-2.5.
(Prior Code, §14.04.090)
                     Annexation of the property located at 2700 S 3500 W, part
11-2019  8-7-2019    of the east half of Section 33, and to be zoned as R-1,
                     except parcel 15-088-0021 shall remain M-1.
(Prior Code, §14.04.100)
                     Annexation of the property located at 2550 S 3500 W, part
08-2020  4-1-2020    of the northeast quarter of Section 33, Township 6 north,
                     Range 2 west, to be zoned as A-1 and C-1.
(Prior Code, §14.04.110)
                     Annexation of the property located at 3300 S 3500 W, part
09-2020  4-1-2020    of the northwest quarter of Section 3, Township 5 north,
                     Range 2 west, to be zoned A-1.
(Prior Code, §14.04.120)
                     Annexation of the property located at 3789 W 2550 S, and
34-2020  10-7-2020   3771 W 2550 S, parcels 15-088-0040 and 15-088-0018, to be
                     zoned as A-2.
(Prior Code, §14.04.140)
35-2020  10-7-2020   Annexation of the property located at 3740 W 2550 S,
                     parcel 15-078-0006, to be zoned R-1.
(Prior Code, §14.04.130)
                     Annexation of the property located at 3621 W 2550 S, 2532
                     S 3600 W, 2508 S 3600 W, and 3596 W 2550 S, part of the
17-2021  4-7-2021    northeast quarter of Section 33, and the southeast quarter
                     of Section 28, Township 6 north, Range 2 west, and to be
                     zoned as A-2.
(Prior Code, §14.04.150)
                     Annexation of the property located at 3300 S 5100 W, part
19-2021  5-5-2021    of the southwest quarter of Section 32, Township 6 north,
                     Range 2 west, and part of the northwest quarter of Section
                     5, Township 5 north, Range 2 west, and to be zoned as R-2.
(Prior Code, §14.04.160)
                     Annexation of property located at 3112 S 3500 W, part of
26-2021  7-7-2021    the southwest quarter of Section 34, Township 6 north,
                     Range 2 west, and to be zoned as A-2.
(Prior Code, §14.04.170)
                    
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
      3-17-  Changing the zoning classification from M-2 to A-1; one acre
2-93  1993   located at 2130 W 1800 S, a part of the southeast quarter of
             Section 23, Township 6 north, Range 2 west.
      7-21-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-2; one plus acre
7-93  1993   located at 1090 W 2150 S, a part of the northwest quarter of
             Section 30, Township 6 north, Range 1 west.
10-93 11-3-  Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to A-1; located along
      1993   4800 S between 4300 W, and the dirt road that is 4800 W.
4-94  6-15-  Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to C-3; one lot
      1994   located at 1070 N 2100 S.
6-95  6-21-  Changing the zoning classification from M-2 to C-2; the roadway
      1995   located at approximately 880 West Wilson Lane.
7-95  8-16-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-2; located on
      1995   both sides of 2100 S, east of 1900 W.
9-95  9-6-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-2; all property
      1995   located east of 1900 W.
10-95 9-6-   Changing the zoning classification from M-2 to C-2; acreage
      1995   located between 1800 S and 2200 S, on the west side of 1900 W.
5-97  9-3-   Changing the zoning classification from M-1 to R-3; in the area of
      1997   the Bouwhis property, two parcels.
      11-5-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-2; located in the
7-97  1997   area of 3500 W and Midland Drive, known generally as the George
             and Della Sodenkamp property.
8-97  11-5-  Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to M-2; approximately
      1997   40,000 square feet located at 1078 W 2150 S.
      3-4-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-3; two parcels of
1-98  1998   land, both being a part of the southwest quarter of Section 2,
             Township 5 north, Range 2 west.
      5-5-   Changing the zoning classification from M-1 to RMHP; the property
3-99  1999   known as the Century Mobile Home Park Expansion, a part of the
             north half of Section 25, Township 6 north, Range 2 west.
      6-2-   Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to C-2; all property
4-99  1999   located at, and commonly known as, 3757 S 4700 W; owned by the
             Green Family Partnership.
13-99 11-17- Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-3; all property
      1999   located at, and commonly known as, 3769 S 4700 W, 1.3 acres.
      12-1-  Changing the zoning classification from M-1 to C-3; approximately
17-99 1999   in the area of 2550 S to 3300 S, which lies along 1900 W
             (rescinded 1-5-2000).
01-   1-5-   Changing the zoning classification from M-1 to M-1ZC; all property
2000  2000   located at, and commonly known as, lying along the west side of
             1900 W, and going 1,300 feet deep from 2550 S to 3300 SW.
02-   1-5-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-2; all property
2000  2000   located at, and commonly known as, lying along the south side of
             4000 S between Midland Drive and 3015 W.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-2; all property
07-   3-1-   located at, and commonly known to be, laying along the north side
2000  2000   of 4000 S, and the west side of 4700 W at the conjunction of the
             two streets, the property belonging to Lyle C. Fowers, Robert H.
             Van Komen (R.H. Van Komen & Co.).
             Changing the zoning classification from C-2 and M-2 to C-3;
12-   10-4-  located at the east half of Section 25, Township 6 north, Range 2
2000  2000   west, and the west half of Section 30, Township 6 north, Range 1
             west.
12-   11-21- Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-2; all property
2001  2001   located at, and commonly known as, 3913 S Midland Drive, and 3981
             S Midland Drive.
09-   8-7-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to M-1; all property
2002  2002   located at, and commonly known as, 2109 W 2550 S, containing 3.5
             acres.
12-   10-2-  Changing the zoning classification from R-1-10 to C-2; serial
2002  2002   numbers 08-048-0030, 08-048-0018, and 08-048-0006, containing 80
             acres, more or less.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Open Space
13-   11-6-  Residential/Recreation; all property located at, and commonly
2002  2002   known as, lying at approximately 2200 S 2000 W, containing 16.28
             acres; owned by David Kosoff.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Open Space
14-   11-6-  Residential/Recreation; all property located at, and commonly
2002  2002   known as, lying at approximately 4700 W 4600 S, containing 50
             acres; owned by Bernice Stone.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-1; all property
15-   11-6-  located at, and commonly known as, lying at approximately 3726 S
2002  2002   2700 W, containing 114,900 square feet; owned by A. Stuart
             Wheelwright.
16-   11-20- Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to C-3; all property
2002  2002   located at, and commonly known as, lying at approximately 1697 W
             2100 S; owned by James W. Higley.
18-   12-4-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use; all
2002  2002   property located at, and commonly known as, lying at approximately
             3500 W 4000 S; owned by Rubicon Investment Group, LLC.
01-   1-7-   Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to Mixed Use; located
2004  2004   at 3652 W 4000 S.
03-   2-4-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Open Space
2004  2004   Residential/Recreation; serial numbers 15-092-0013 and 15-092-
             0057.
04-   2-4-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use; serial
2004  2004   numbers 08-051-0079, 08-051-0104, and 08-051-0148.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-3, Mixed Use; two
05-   2-4-   parcels, one being Commercial and being a part of the north half
2004  2004   of Section 10, Township 5 north, Range 2 west, and the other being
             Mixed Use and being a part of the north half of Section 10,
             Township 5 north, Range 2 west.
07-   2-18-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use (Brown);
2004  2004   located at 2750 W 3775 S, approximately 7.73 acres; owned by
             Joseph Anderson.
09-   4-7-   Changing the zoning classification from MS to Mixed Use; located
2004  2004   at a part of the northwest quarter of Section 30, Township 6
             north, Range 1 west.
10-   4-7-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Open Space (Green);
2004  2004   located at a part of the southwest quarter of Section 5, Township
             5 north, Range 1 west.
13-   6-2-   Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to Mixed Use and Open
2004  2004   Space Residential; the parcel commonly known as the Vern Holmes
             property.
15-   6-16-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use; the
2004  2004   parcel commonly known as the James Wilcox property, serial number
             08-028-0032.
18-   8-4-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Open Space; the
2004  2004   parcel commonly known as, and situated at, approximately 2833 W
             1800 S.
23-   12-15- Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Open Space (Green);
2004  2004   the parcel commonly known as, and situated at, approximately 2650
             W 1800 S.
5-    1-19-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 and A-2 to Open Space
2005  2005   (Green); the parcel known as, and situated at, approximately 4000
             S 4700 W.
7-    2-16-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Open Space; located
2005  2005   at the southwest corner of the northeast quarter of the northwest
             quarter of Section 34, Township 6 north, Range 2 west.
10-   7-20-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Open Space; located
2005  2005   at the part of the northwest quarter of Section 25, Township 6
             north, Range 2 west.
15-   11-16- Changing the zoning classification from Mixed Use, C-2, A-1, and
2005  2005   C-3 to C-3; properties owned by Soleco, Inc.; SBH West Haven LC;
             Steven Toone; and Mountain States Telephone & Telegraph Co.
07-   6-21-  Changing the zoning classification from Mixed Use to M-2; located
2006  2006   at 957 W 2100 S (Wilson Lane).
13-   8-16-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use; located
2006  2006   at 2151 W 2550 S, part of the northwest quarter of the northeast
             quarter of Section 35, Township 6 north, Range 2 west.
14-   9-6-   Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to Mixed Use and C-3;
2006  2006   located at the part of the south half of Section 3, Township 5
             north, Range 2 west.
17-   12-6-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use; located
2006  2006   at 2200 W 2550 S, part of the southwest quarter of the southeast
             quarter of Section 26, Township 6 north, Range 2 west.
01-   1-3-   Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to C-3; located at the
2007  2007   John A. Hunsaker property, 1847 W 2100 S, part of the northwest
             quarter of Section 25, Township 6 north, Range 2 west.
04-   5-16-  Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to C-3; located at,
2007  2007   and commonly known as, 2200 W 2100 S, 11.5 acres.
05-   8-15-  Rezoning several properties to C-2, or from M-2 to Mixed Use;
2007  2007   beginning at the intersection of Weber River and the 2100 S
             express way.
15-   10-3-  Changing the zoning classification from C-2 and M-2 to C-3; serial
2007  2007   numbers 15-066-0063, 15-066-0106, and part of 15-066-0019, located
             at approximately 1233 Wilson Lane.
09-   6-3-   Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to C-3; located
2008  2008   approximately at, and commonly known as, 1085 W 2100 S.
14-   8-6-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at
2008  2008   approximately, and commonly known as, 3550 S 4700 W.
01-   1-21-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2.5; located at
2009  2009   approximately, and commonly known as, 2342 W 3300 S, parcel 15-
             116-0008.
11-   9-2-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at
2009  2009   approximately, and commonly known as, 2680 W 3600 S, parcel 08-
             028-0024.
10-   11-17- Changing the zoning classification from R-3 to A-1; parcels 08-
2010  2010   022-0072 and 08-022-0073.
01-   1-4-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2.5; located at
2012  2012   the part of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of
             Section 3, Township 5 north, Range 2 west.
09-   9-19-  Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to C-3; part of the
2012  2012   northeast quarter of Section 25, Township 6 north, Range 2 west.
07-   10-3-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; constituting
2012  2012   All of Lot Nos. 1, 2, and 3, Lotus Park Subdivision.
02-   2-6-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at the
2013  2013   part of the southwest quarter of Section 8, Township 5 north,
             Range 2 west.
03-   2-20-  Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to C-3; part of the
2013  2013   northeast quarter of Section 25, Township 6 north, Range 2 west.
08-   4-17-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; part of the
2013  2013   northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 26, Township
             6 North, Range 2 West.
09-   6-5-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; parcels 08-
2013  2013   037-0082 and 08-037-0083.
10-   6-5-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use to permit
2013  2013   C-2 Commercial and High Density Residentials; parcels 08-037-0082
             and 08-037-0083.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; property owned
14-   9-18-  by Phil H. and Joan T. Green, and corporation of the presiding
2013  2013   Bishop of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, parcels
             08-037-0157 and 08-503-0001.
16-   11-6-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; part of the
2013  2013   southwest quarter of Section 8, Township 5 north, Range 2 west.
21-   12-18- Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; parcel numbers
2013  2013   15-076-0146, 15-076-0147, 15-076-0148, and 15-076-0149; owned by
             Charles Ron Kingston, 18 acres.
22-   12-18- Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; parcels 15-
2013  2013   076-0005 and 15-076-0122; owned by Carl H. Klomp, et al., eight
             acres.
03-   2-5-   Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to C-3; located on
2014  2014   Lots 12, 13, and 14 of Wilson Lane Business Park; owned by Clue
             Island, LLC, 1.5 acres.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at
04-   2-19-  approximately 2316 S 2300 W, at the part of the northwest quarter
2014  2014   of the southeast quarter of Section 26, Township 6 north, Range 2
             west; owned by Gordon and Peggy Champneys.
08-   3-19-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located from
2014  2014   the north corner from Section 27, Township 6 north, Range 2 west;
             owned by Hamblin Investments, Inc.
09-   4-16-  Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to A-1; located at the
2014  2014   part of Lot 3, Section 2, Township 5 north, Range 2 west; owned by
             Terry W. and Lynette Tippets.
10-   5-21-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at the
2014  2014   part of Lot 2, Mayberry Subdivision, Phase 2; owned by Burke M.
             and Sherrie L. Frandsen.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-3; located at the
11-   6-4-   part of the south half of the north half of the southwest quarter
2014  2014   of Section 2, Township 5 north, Range 2 west; owned by Blaine C.
             and Jennifer L. Willardsen.
05-   10-15- Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; parcels 08-
2014  2014   037-0048, 08-037-0049, and 08-037-0165; owned by Phil and Joan
             Green.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at the
15-   10-15- beginning of the northwest corner of the southeast quarter of
2014  2014   Section 26, Township 6 north, Range 2 west; owned by Kyle and
             Shayla Dahl.
18-   11-19- Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to Mixed Use; parcels
2014  2014   08-034-0034, 08-034-0035, and a portion of 08-034-0047; owned by
             the Joe Gallegos and Connie Shipp Trust.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at the
24-   12-17- part of the west half of the southwest quarter of Section 35,
2014  2014   Township 6 north, Range 2 west; owned by Robert Bruce and Micki
             Joyce Kinch.
04-   1-21-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; parcels 15-
2015  2015   075-0014 and 15-075-0013; owned by Wilkinson Farm Service Company,
             and the Grant Charles Holmes family Trust.
07-   3-18-  Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to C-3; parcels 15-
2015  2015   190-0009, 15-190-0010, and 15-190-0011; owned by Williamson Farms,
             LLC.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1/A-2 to Mixed Use;
08-   5-20-  located at the beginning of the north right-of-way line of 3300 S,
2015  2015   and the east property line of parcel 15-094-0062; owned by the
             Bouwhuis Trust.
16-   8-19-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-4; part of the
2015  2015   north half of the northeast quarter of Section 9, Township 5
             north, Range 2 west.
17-   8-19-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use; located
2015  2015   at the part of the southwest quarter of Section 3, Township 5
             north, Range 2 west; owned by Don and Cheryl Byington.
11-   10-7-  Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to R-1; located at the
2015  2015   part of the southwest quarter of Section 4, Township 5 north,
             Range 2 west.
20-   11-4-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at the
2015  2015   part of the northwest quarter of Section 2, Township 5 north,
             Range 2 west; owned by Wayne L. and Jayne Vandersteen.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-2; located at the
21-   11-4-  beginning at the northeast corner of the County Cove Subdivision,
2015  2015   also being the corner of Lot 14; owned by Kirk Family Enterprises
             LLC, Mikell Brent Anderson.
23-   12-16- Changing the zoning classification from M-1 to Mixed Use; part of
2015  2015   the southeast quarter of Section 26, Township 6 north, Range 2
             west.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use; located
01-   1-20-  at the part of the southwest corner of Section 26, Township 6
2016  2016   north, Range 2 west; owned by the Jack and Lynn Hannum family
             Trust.
02-   2-3-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at the
2016  2016   part of the northwest quarter of Section 26, Township 6 north,
             Range 2 west; owned by James Paul Cook, et al.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use; located
03-   2-17-  at the part of the southwest corner of Section 26, Township 6
2016  2016   north, Range 2 west; owned by John and Janet Holmes family living
             Trust.
04-   3-2-   Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to R-1; part of Lot 1,
2016  2016   Glassmann Farms Subdivision No. 1.
09-   6-15-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2.5; parcels 08-
2016  2016   028-0041, 08-028-0081, and 08-028-0082, approximately 19.94 acres;
             owned by Kenneth Lester Gomm, trustee.
14-   7-20-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at the
2016  2016   part of the southeast quarter of Section 8, Township 5 north,
             Range 2 west; owned by Robert and Lorraine Vanderwood.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at the
15-   7-20-  part of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section
2016  2016   26, Township 6 north, Range 2 west; owned by Carl B. and Anh Van
             Zweden.
19-   9-7-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2.5; located at
2016  2016   the part of the northwest quarter of Section 2, Township 5 north,
             Range 2 west; owned by Dab Holdings, LC.
20-   9-7-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use; located
2016  2016   at the part of the southeast quarter of Section 26, Township 6
             north, Range 2 west; owned by Utah Power & Light Company.
21-   10-19- Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to Mixed Use; located
2016  2016   at the part of the southwest quarter of Section 3, Township 5
             north, Range 2 west; owned by Dale W. Bartlett.
22-   11-2-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; parcels 08-
2016  2016   038-0012, 08-038-0014, and 08-038-0008; owned by Gordon L. and
             Maxine B. Hadley, and Roland B. Hadley, et al.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to R-2.5; located at
23-   11-16- the part of the west half of the southeast quarter of Section 34,
2016  2016   Township 6 north, Range 2 west; owned by Joseph and Margaret M.
             Favero, trustees.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 and A-2 to Mixed Use;
24-   12-7-  parcels 08-035-009, 08-035-0010, 08-037-0010, 08-037-0065, 08-037-
2016  2016   0072, 08-037-0083, 08-037-0082, 08-037-0081, and 08-037-0110;
             owned by the Green family, Western Basin Land & Livestock, and the
             Orozco family.
25-   12-7-  Changing the zoning classification from C-3 to Mixed Use; parcel
2016  2016   08-029-0045, approximately 13.4 acres; owned by Westport Capital
             Partners, LLC.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 and A-2 to Mixed Use;
26-   12-21- parcels 15-094-0049, 15-094-0110, 15-094-0078, and 15-094-079;
2016  2016   owned by the Douglas Illum Trust, Buela Illum Trust, and Sherri
             Norris Stewart Trust.
01-   1-18-  Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to Mixed Use; any
2017  2017   portion of parcels 15-69-0005 and 15-069-0031, approximately three
             acres; owned by Scott Schoenenberger.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at the
03-   2-15-  part of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section
2017  2017   5, Township 5 north, Range 2 west; owned by Donald and Sandra
             Bearce.
06-   3-1-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at the
2017  2017   part of the west half of the southwest quarter of Section 35,
             Township 6 north, Range 2 west; owned by Clair J. Barrow, trustee.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at the
07-   3-1-   part of the west half of the southeast quarter of Section 34,
2017  2017   Township 6 north, Range 2 west; owned by Arne Bjorn and Shanna C.
             Carlson.
08-   3-1-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; parcels 15-
2017  2017   074-0004, 15-074-0038, and 15-074-0039; owned by Stratford Farms,
             LLC.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at the
09-   3-15-  part of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section
2017  2017   5, Township 5 north, Range 2 west; owned by Steven and Lola Jean
             Lamb.
12-   4-19-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use; located
2017  2017   at the part of the southeast quarter of Section 26, Township 6
             north, Range 2 west; owned by Jack and Lynn Hannum family Trust.
13-   5-17-  Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to R-2; parcels 08-
2017  2017   030-0024 and 08-030-0026; owned by Luis Sandavol.
20-   7-19-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; all of Lot 1,
2017  2017   Fawn Subdivision, approximately one acre; owned by Jessica
             Corbran.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2.5; all of Lot
21-   12-6-  1, Fawn Subdivision, West Haven City, Weber County, Utah; part of
2017  2017   Lots 3 and 4, of the northwest quarter of Section 2, Township 5
             north, Range 2 west.
22-   12-20- Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to C-3; located at the
2017  2017   part of the southwest quarter of Section 24, Township 6 north,
             Range 2 west; owned by LKC Investments, Inc.
01-   1-17-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2.5; parcels 08-
2018  2018   028-0037 and 08-028-0044; owned by Rhea B. Roberts, trustee.
02-   2-7-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use; parcels
2018  2018   08-028-0039, 08-028-0042, and 08-028-0040, approximately 4.5
             acres; owned by Carol Spraycar, Karol’s Mobile Estates, Inc.
03-   3-7-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use; located
2018  2018   at the part of the north half of Section 2, Township 5 north,
             Range 2 west; owned by Dyllpax, LLC.
14-   8-1-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at the
2018  2018   part of the southeast quarter of Section 27, Township 6 north,
             Range 2 west; owned by Waj Management, LLC.
15-   8-15-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use; parcels
2018  2018   15-094-0112 and 15-094-0002; owned by Mona Lee H. Bennington, et
             al.
18-   9-5-   Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to C-3; part of the
2018  2018   northeast quarter of Section 26, Township 6 North, Range 2 west,
             of the Salt Lake Base and Meridian.
19-   9-5-   Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to Mixed Use; located
2018  2018   at the part of the northeast quarter of Section 26, Township 6
             north, Range 2 west; owned by Crabtree Investments, Inc.
21-   10-3-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use; part of
2018  2018   the northwest quarter of Section 9, Township 5 north, Range 2
             west.
23-   11-7-  Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to Mixed Use; located
2018  2018   at the part of the northeast quarter of Section 9, Township 5
             north, Range 2 west; owned by Infinity G LLC, one-half, et al.
24-   11-7-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-4; parcels 15-
2018  2018   116-0001, 15-116-0002, 15-116-0003, 15-116-0004, 15-116-0005, and
             15-116-0006; owned by Inifinity G LLC, one-half, et al.
25-   11-7-  Changing the zoning classification from R-2.5 to Mixed Use; east
2018  2018   150 feet of Parcel 08-028-0088 to Parcel 08-028-0088.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to Mixed Use; parcels
27-   11-21- 15-061-0095, 15-061-0096, 15-061-0089, 15-061-0099, 15-061-0031,
2018  2018   and 15-061-0032; owned by Gordon and Anita Williams, Henry A. and
             Terry Prevedal, and Kenneth E. and Lois A. Silker.
01-   1-16-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2.5; part of the
2019  2019   northwest quarter of Section 2, Township 5 north, Range 2 west.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to Mixed Use; parcels
10-   4-3-   08-034-0059, 08-034-0046, 08-034-0048, 08-034-0032, and 08-034-
2019  2019   0055; owned by the Connie Shipp Trust, Melba and James Bodily,
             Margaret and Calvin Henstra, Mandie and Michael Welch, and Wesco
             Machine & Tool Co., Inc.
13-   4-17-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 and A-2 to Mixed Use;
2019  2019   parcels 15-061-0028, 15-061-0074, 15-061-0075, and 15-061-0030;
             owned by Lance Read, Kevin Moser, and Ron Gardiner.
16-   6-5-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to Mixed Use; parcels
2019  2019   08-028-0027 and 08-028-0043, approximately 3.8 acres; owned by
             Edward Peters.
17-   6-5-   Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-2; part of the
2019  2019   south half of the north half of the southwest quarter of Section
             2, Township 5 north, Range 2 west.
             Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to C-3; located at the
28-   9-4-   part of the southwest quarter of Section 24, Township 6 north,
2019  2019   Range 2 west, approximately 2.7 acres; owned by KRG Holdings of
             Utah, LLC.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-3 and C-2;
41-   12-4-  parcels 08-022-0073, 08-022-0076, 08-022-0080, 08-022-0048, and
2019  2019   08-007-0028, approximately 20.5 acres; owned by UDOT, Richard and
             Joann Miller, and the Dorothy Brown Trust.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to Mixed Use; all of
02-   1-15-  Lot 12, Genetti Farms Subdivision No. 4, part of the southeast
2020  2020   quarter of Section 4, Township 5 north, Range 2 west; owned by
             Robert T. Fisher.
22-   5-20-  Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to R-2; parcels 15-
2020  2020   029-0071 and 15-029-0021, 77 acres; owned by the Westwood family
             Trust.
07-   7-17-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2.5; parcels 15-
2020  2020   075-0008, 15-075-0009, 15-075-0030, and 15-075-0031, approximately
             43.5 acres; owned by the Roger Bingham Trust and Tyler Bingham.
30-   8-5-   Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to C-2; all of Lot 1,
2020  2020   Genetti Farms Subdivision, Phase 6; owned by Johnny Pagano.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; located at the
37-   10-21- part of the northwest quarter of Section 34, Township 6 north,
2020  2020   Range 2 west, approximately 4.62 acres; owned by Joshua Lynch,
             John F. Jr. and Colette D. Faragasso, and Christopher J. and
             Cheray L. Kisse.
42-   11-16- Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to A-1; located at the
2020  2020   part of the northeast quarter of Section 33, Township 6 north,
             Range 2 west, approximately 7.73 acres.
40-   11-18- Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-2; located at the
2020  2020   part of the northeast quarter of Section 26, Township 6 north,
             Range 2 west; owned by Nampil Investment Company, LLC.
41-   12-2-  Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to R-2; located at the
2020  2020   part of the northeast quarter of Section 34, Township 6 north,
             Range 2 west; owned by William McCormack.
48-   12-16- Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to PH; all of Lot 1,
2020  2020   Mille Subdivision, approximately 3.04 acres.
49-   1-6-   Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to C-3; parcels 15-
2020  2021   069-0027 and 15-069-0074, approximately one acre; owned by the
             Blake Fielding Trust.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-2; located at the
01-   1-6-   part of the south half of the northwest quarter of Section 2,
2021  2021   Township 5 north, Range 2 west; owned by B.M. R.E. LLC, and Tasha
             Facer.
02-   1-20-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; parcels 08-
2021  2021   048-0058 and 08-048-0016, approximately 20 acres; owned by the
             Ronald W. and Joan H. Schultz family Trust.
05-   2-17-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to R-2; parcels 15-
2021  2021   344-0001 and 15-344-0002, approximately 2.2 acres; owned by Curtis
             Goodwin and Brad Goodwin.
13-   4-7-   Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to R-2.5; located at
2021  2021   the part of the south half of Section 3, Township 5 north, Range 2
             west; owned by David and Janet Van Eerden.
18-   4-22-  Changing the zoning classification from A-1 to C-2; parcels 08-
2021  2021   022-0093 and 08-022-0094, approximately 2.86 acres; owned by
             Stillwater Construction Group and Justin Nielsen.
27-   7-7-   Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to C-2; beginning at a
2021  2021   point 33 feet south and 33 feet west of the northeast corner of
             said Section 9, Township 5 north, Range 2 west.
31-   8-18-  Changing the zoning classification from Open Space Residential to
2021  2021   PH; located at the part of the southeast quarter of Section 26,
             Township 6 north, Range 2 west; owned by Kosoff Properties LLC.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-1 and A-2 to R-2;
35-   12-15- located at the part of the southeast quarter of the northeast
2021  2021   quarter of Section 3, Township 5 north, Range 2 west,
             approximately five acres; owned by Jessica Lynn Peterson.
03-   2- -   Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to R-2; parcels 15-
2022  2022   092-0072 and 15-092-0073, approximately 15.51 acres; owned by the
             Weber School District.
12-   7-6-   Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to M-1; nine parcels
2022  2022   of land at approximately 1900 South and 1900 West.
19-   9-7-   Changing the zoning classification from Mixed Use Residential-Open
2022  2022   Space Use to A-1, A-2 and R-2.5; 100 parcels of land within the
             Country Haven Subdivision.
20-   9-7-   Changing the zoning classification from Green-Open Space to A-
2022  2022   1 and R-2.5; 86 parcels of land within the Holmes Estates
             Subdivision.
             Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to R-2; parcel
23-   9-21-  080300034 located at Lot 1, Cardon Subdivision, and parcel
2022  2022   080300041 located at part of the northeast quarter of Section 3,
             Township 5 north, Range 2 west.
24-   9-21-  Changing the zoning classification from Open Space/Recreation/Re
2022  2022   sidential to A-1 and R-2; 53 parcels of land within the Stonefield
             Subdivision.
25-   10-5-  Changing the zoning classification from Open Space to A-1 and R-2;
2022  2022   149 parcels of land within the Secrist Acres Subdivision.
26-   9-21-  Changing the zoning classification from Green-Open Space to A-
2022  2022   1 and R-2; 89 parcels within the Haven Estates Subdivision.
29-   10-5-  Changing the zoning classification from C-2 to A-1, R-2, and
2022  2022   Residential Patio Homes; 146 parcels within the Fair Grove Estates
             Subdivision.
30-   10-5-  Changing the zoning classification from Green-Open Space to A-
2022  2022   1 and R-2; 28 parcels within the Joni Acres Subdivision.
31-   10-5-  Changing the zoning classification from Open Space to A-1 and R-2;
2022  2022   24 parcels within the Seclusion Meadows Subdivision.
32-   10-5-  Changing the zoning classification from Open Space with Conditions
2022  2022   to A-1 and R-2; 86 parcels within the Windsor Farms Subdivision.
33-   12-7-  Rezoning certain property within its boundaries from Agricultural,
2022  2022   A-l to Commercial C-2; Parcel 08-022-0004.
04-   2-1-   Rezoning certain property within its boundaries from Agricultural
2023  2023   A-1 to Commercial C-2; Parcel 08-022-0104.
08-   4-5-   Rezoning certain property within its boundaries from Agricultural
2023  2023   A-2 to Residential R-2; Parcel 08-405-0001.
11-   6-7-   Rezoning certain property within its boundaries from Agricultural
2023  2023   A-1 to Residential R-2.5; Parcel 08-028-0025.
24-   11-15- Rezoning certain properties within its boundaries from Commercial
2023  2023   C-1 to Commercial C-2; Parcel 08-022-0042 and Parcel 08-022-0017.
10-   5-1-   Rezoning certain property within its boundaries from Mixed Use/
2024  2024   Medium/Low Density Residential, Commercial MU to Commercial C-3;
             Parcel 15-069-0082.
39-   12-18- Rezoning certain property within the city from A-2 to R-2.5;
2024  2024   Parcels 084470001 and 084470002.
02-   3-19-  Rezoning certain property within the city from A-1 to C-2; Parcel
2025  2025   081980005.
03-   5-7-   Changing the zoning classification from A-2 to R-2; parcel
2025  2025   150920054 located at part of the northeast quarter of Section 34,
             Township 6 north, Range 2 west.
            
 
TABLE V: MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
04-2017  2-15-2017   Approving and adopting the master development agreement
                     for the Green Farm Project.
(Prior Code, §12.12.010)
23-2017  12-20-2017  Approving and adopting the master development agreement
                     for Haven Cove Townhomes.
(Prior Code, §12.12.110)
09-2018  6-20-2018   Approving and adopting the master development agreement
                     for 11 West Apartments.
(Prior Code, §12.12.020)
12-2018  7-18-2018   Approving and adopting the master development agreement
                     for the Salt Point Development.
(Prior Code, §12.12.030)
20-2018  9-18-2018   Approving and adopting the first amendment to the master
                     development agreement for the Salt Point Development.
(Prior Code, §12.12.030.10)
22-2018  11-7-2018   Approving and adopting the master development agreement
                     for the Sycamore Lane Development.
(Prior Code, §12.12.040)
26-2018  11-7-2018   Approving and adopting the master development agreement
                     for the Knudsen Corner Development.
(Prior Code, §12.12.070)
06-2019  3-6-2019    Approving and adopting the master development agreement
                     for Riverwalk, LLC.
(Prior Code, §12.12.050)
07-2019  3-20-2019   Approving and adopting the master development agreement
                     for Hawk Haven Townhomes.
(Prior Code, §12.12.060)
08-2019  4-3-2019    Approving and adopting the second amendment to the master
                     development agreement for the Salt Point Development.
(Prior Code, §12.12.030.20)
12-2019  4-17-2019   Approving and adopting the master development agreement
                     for the Haven Parkway Development.
(Prior Code, §12.12.080)
15-2019  5-15-2019   Approving and adopting the master development agreement
                     for Wasatch Meadows, Phase 1.
(Prior Code, §12.12.090)
21-2019  6-19-2019   Approving and adopting the master development agreement
                     for the Staker Farms Development.
(Prior Code, §12.12.100)
22-2019  7-3-2019    Approving and adopting the master development agreement
                     for the Ellie Estates Townhome Development.
(Prior Code, §12.12.120)
                     Approving and adopting the first amendment for the master
23-2019  7-3-2019    development agreement for the Fields at Green Farms
                     Development.
(Prior Code, §12.12.010.10)
24-2019  8-7-2019    Approving and adopting the master development agreement
                     for Wilson Cove.
(Prior Code, §12.12.160)
32-2019  10-2-2019   Approving and adopting the master development agreement
                     for West Garden Townhomes.
(Prior Code, §12.12.150)
27-2019  10-16-2019  Approving and adopting the master development agreement
                     for the Guzman Subdivision.
(Prior Code, §12.12.140)
35-2019  11-6-2019   Approving and adopting the amended master development
                     agreement for Riverwalk, LLC.
(Prior Code, §12.12.050.10)
                     Approving and adopting the second amendment to the master
42-2019  12-18-2019  development agreement for the Fields at Green Farms
                     Development.
(Prior Code, §12.12.010.20)
32-2020  8-5-2020    Approving and adopting the amended master development
                     agreement for the Staker Farms Development.
(Prior Code, §12.12.100.10)
                     Approving and adopting the master development agreement
33-2020  8-19-2020   for attainable senior/veteran housing units located at
                     2150 S 1100 W.
                     (Prior Code, §12.12.130)
                     Approving and adopting the master development agreement
20-2021  6-16-2021   for residential housing located at 3460 W 3600 S.
                     (Prior Code, §12.12.170)
22-2022  9-21-2022   Approving and adopting the third amendment to the master
                     development agreement for the Green Farm Project.
05-2023  2-1-2023    Approving and adopting a master development agreement for
                     21 South.
10-2023  5-3-2023    Amending the master development agreement for the 21 South
                     Mixed-Use Project.
25-2023  11-15-2023  Approving and adopting the fourth amendment to the master
                     development agreement for the Green Farm Project.
03-2024  1-17-2024   Approving and adopting the first amendment to the master
                     development agreement for Westwood Estates Subdivision.
08-2024  3-20-2024   Approving and adopting the second amendment to the master
                     development agreement for the Staker Farms Project.
29-2024  8-21-2024   Approving and adopting the fifth amendment to the master
                     development agreement for the Green Farm Project.
30-2024  9-18-2024   Authorizing adoption of the second amendment to the
                     Riverwalk Development master development agreement.
40-2024  12-18-2024  Approving and adopting the second amendment to the master
                     development agreement for Westwood Estates Subdivision.
                    
 
TABLE VI: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLANS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-- -Adopting the costs for the Stormwater Capital Facilities Plan.
(Prior Code, §12.18.040)
13-2000  10-18-2000  Adopting the Roads and Transportation Capital Facilities
                     Plan, by Hansen Allen & Luce, Inc., revised October 2000.
(Prior Code, §12.18.020)
14-2000  10-18-2000  Adopting the Parks and Recreation Capital Facilities Plan,
                     by Hansen Allen & Luce, Inc., revised October 2000.
                     Adopting the Parks and Recreation Capital Facilities Plan,
02-2009  1-21-2009   dated December 8, 2008, by Steven Anderson, P.E., and
                     Gardner Engineering.
(Prior Code, §12.18.030)
                    
 
TABLE VII: AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREAS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
08-2006  6-21-2006   Adoption of the Holmes Farms, LLC, and McFarland Farms as
                     designated agricultural protection areas.
(Prior Code, §12.22.050)
                    
 
TABLE VIII: PUBLIC PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-- -Construction of various drains and waterways throughout the city.
                    
 
TABLE IX: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Uniform interlocal agreement between the State Tax
12-2004  5-19-2004   Commission and the city, which has imposed the municipal
                     telecommunications license tax.
                    
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Utah Code Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO UTAH CODE ANNOTATED
UCA Cite Code Section
UCA Cite                         Code Section
4-11                             157.868
4-12-102                         10.99
4-25-10                          91.002
4-25-201                         91.098
8-5-1                            92.12
8-5-2                            92.12
8-5-7                            92.03
10-1-301 et seq.                 33.072
10-1-305(2)(b)                   33.073
10-1-307(4)                      33.075
10-1-405                         33.114
10-3-703                         10.99
10-3-1106                        31.22
10-3-208                         31.02
10-3-701                         154.01
10-3-818                         31.04
10-3-1105                        31.22
10-3b-104                        32.02
10-3b-302                        31.20
10-3b-303 et seq.                31.20
10-3b-302                        32.02
10-6-101 et seq.                 30.03,
                                 31.21
10-6-121                         36.01
10-6-122                         36.01
10-8-47                          113.01
10-9a-103(39)                    157.434
10-9a-204                        32.02
10-9a-205                        32.02
10-9a-403                        32.02
10-9a-404                        32.02
10-9a-407                        157.004
10-9a-502                        32.02
10-9a-503                        32.02
10-9a-505                        32.02
10-9a-507                        32.02
10-9a-511                        32.02
10-9a-513                        32.02
10-9a-516 through 10-9a-520      157.950
10-9a-608                        156.002
10-9a-609                        156.002
10-11-4                          90.04;
                                 90.64
11-39-107                        36.08
11-39-107 et seq.                36.11
11-46-101 et seq.                91.001
11-46-102                        10.99
                                 91.002;
11-46-103                        91.072;
                                 91.098
11-46-201 et seq.                91.001
11-46-301 et seq.                91.001;
                                 91.002
11-46-302                        91.002
13-22-2(1)                       111.03
13-22-2(2)                       111.03
19-6-302                         157.881
19-6-502(10)                     51.02
20A-1-201.5                      31.03
26A-1-123                        90.99
41-1a-101 et seq.                90.03
41-1a-102                        157.881
41-6a-216                        153.09
52-4-101 to 52-4-305             30.05
53-2a-703                        90.40
53-7-102                         10.99
53-13-103                        10.99
53-13-105                        10.99
54-8b-2                          33.110
57-21-1 et seq.                  157.950
57-8-13.4                        156.075
57-3                             156.078
57-8                             156.076
59-12-102(90)                    33.071
59-12-104                        33.073
59-12-106                        33.057;
                                 33.077
59-12-134                        33.110
59-12-215                        33.110
59-12-352 et seq.                157.497
59-12-1802                       33.056;
                                 33.076
62A-2-101                        157.004
63G-6a-103                       36.08
70C-5-103                        111.20
70D-2-401                        157.556
76-3-301                         10.99
76-6-107                         90.99;
                                 131.01
76-9-301                         91.070
76-9-702                         112.05
76-10-104                        113.01
76-56-103                        131.04
77-7-18                          10.99
78B-6-1101(1)                    10.99
Title 8                          92.02
Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 3      33.076
Title 11, Chapter 26             114.27
Title 15A                        10.99
Title 17, Chapter 31             33.093
Title 19, Chapter 5              155.999
Title 19, Chapter 5, Section 102 155.002
Title 54                         33.056
Title 57                         157.994
Title 57, Chapter 8              157.435
Title 58, Chapter 37             157.952
                                 33.055;
                                 33.056;
Title 59, Chapter 12             33.058;
                                 33.071;
                                 33.076;
                                 33.110
Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 2     33.071;
                                 33.072
Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 3     33.073
Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 3A    33.090
Title 59, Chapter 13             33.073
Title 63, Chapter 2              114.09;
                                 114.33
Title 63 G, Chapter 2            114.33
                                 
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code     2022 Code
2.02           157.001
2.02.010       31.20
2.02.010.0100  31.21
2.02.010.0200  31.22
2.02.010.0300  31.23
2.02.010.0400  31.24
2.02.020       31.35
2.02.020.0100  31.36
2.04           157.002
2.04.030       31.02;
               31.99
2.04.040       31.03
2.06           157.003
2.08           157.004
2.26.050       32.01
3.06.020       31.04
3.22.010       35.01
3.22.020       35.02
3.22.030       35.03
3.22.040       35.04
3.22.050       35.05
3.22.060       35.06
4.02           157.015
4.02.010       33.055
4.02.020       33.056
4.02.030       33.057
4.02.040       33.058
4.02.050       33.999
4.04           157.016
4.04.010       33.070
4.04.020       33.071
4.04.030       33.072
4.04.040       33.073
4.04.050       33.074
4.04.060       33.075
4.04.070       33.076
4.04.080       33.077
4.06           157.017
4.08           157.018
4.10           157.019
4.10.010       33.090
4.10.030       33.091
4.10.040       33.092
4.10.050       33.093
4.10.060       33.094
4.10.070       33.095
4.12           157.020
4.12.010       33.110
4.12.020       33.111
4.12.030       33.112
4.12.040       33.113
4.12.060       33.114
4.16.020       33.001
4.16.030       33.002
4.16.050       33.003
5.01           32.02
5.02           32.02
5.04           32.02
5.04.060       33.004
5.06           32.02
5.10.010       110.02
5.10.020       110.03
5.10.030       110.04
5.10.040       110.05
5.10.050       110.06
5.10.060       110.01
5.10.070       110.07
5.10.080       110.08
5.10.090       110.09
5.10.100       110.10
5.10.110       110.99
               113.01,
5.12.030       113.02;
               113.99
5.14.010       111.01
5.14.020       111.02
5.14.030       111.03
5.14.040       111.04
5.14.050       111.05
5.14.060       111.06
5.14.070       111.07
5.14.080       111.08
5.14.090       111.09
5.14.100       111.10
5.14.110       111.11
5.14.120       111.12
5.14.130       111.13
5.14.140       111.14
5.14.150       111.15
5.14.160       111.16
5.14.170       111.17
5.14.180       111.18
5.14.190       111.19
5.14.200       111.20
5.14.210       111.99
5.16.010       112.01
5.16.020       112.02
5.16.030       112.03
5.16.040       112.04
5.16.050       112.05
5.16.060       112.06
5.16.070       112.07
5.16.080       112.08
5.16.090       112.09
5.16.100       112.10
5.16.110       112.11
5.16.120       112.12
5.16.130       112.12
5.16.140       112.12
5.16.150       112.12
5.16.160       112.12
5.16.170       112.12
5.16.180       112.12
5.16.190       112.12
5.16.200       112.12
5.16.210       112.12
5.16.220       112.13
5.16.230       112.14
5.16.240       112.15
5.16.250       112.16
5.16.260       112.16
5.16.270       112.17
5.16.280       112.16
5.16.290       112.18
5.16.300       112.18
5.16.310       112.19
5.16.320       112.20
5.16.330       112.21
5.16.340       112.12
5.16.350       112.12
5.16.360       112.22
5.16.370       112.99
06.01          157.035
06.02          157.036
6.02.060       131.01;
               131.99
6.02.071       131.02
6.02.072       131.02
6.02.073       131.02
6.02.074       131.02
6.02.075       131.99
6.02.080       131.03;
               131.99
6.02.100       131.04
06.03          157.037
06.04          157.038
6.04.020       130.01
6.04.030       130.02;
               130.99
06.05          157.039
06.06          157.040
06.07          157.041
06.08          157.042
06.09          157.043
06.10          157.044
06.11          157.045
06.12          157.046
06.13          157.047
06.14          157.048
8.02           157.060
8.04           157.061
8.06           157.062
8.06.010       90.01
8.06.020       90.02
8.06.030       90.03
8.06.040       90.04;
               90.99
8.06.050       90.05;
               90.99
8.07.010       51.01
8.07.020       51.02
8.07.030       51.03
8.07.040       51.04
8.07.050       51.05
8.07.060       51.06
8.07.070       51.07
8.07.080       51.08
8.07.090       51.09
8.08           157.063
8.08.010       90.20
8.08.020       90.21
8.08.040       90.22
8.08.050       90.23
8.08.060       90.24
8.08.070       90.25
8.08.080       90.99
8.10           157.064
8.10.010       35.20
8.10.020       35.21
8.10.030       35.22
8.10.040       35.23
8.10.050       35.99
8.12           157.065
8.12.010       34.01
8.12.020       34.02
8.12.030       34.04
8.12.040       34.05
8.12.050       34.06
8.12.060       34.07
8.12.070       34.08
8.12.110       34.10
8.12.120       34.11
8.12.130       34.12
8.12.140       34.13
8.12.150       34.14
8.12.160       34.15
8.12.170       34.15
8.12.180       34.15
8.12.190       34.03
8.14           157.066
8.16           157.067
8.16.010       90.40
8.16.020       90.41
8.16.030       90.42
8.16.040       90.43
8.16.050       90.44
9.02.010       91.001
9.02.020       91.002
9.04.010       91.015
9.04.020       91.016
9.04.030       91.017
9.04.040       91.018
9.04.050       91.019
9.04.060       91.020
9.04.070       91.021
9.06.010       91.035
9.06.020       91.036
9.06.030       91.037
9.06.040       91.038
9.06.050       91.039
9.06.060       91.040
9.06.070       91.055
9.06.080       91.055
9.06.090       91.056
9.06.100       91.057
9.06.110       91.058
9.06.120       91.059
9.06.130       91.041
9.06.140       91.042
9.08.010       91.070
9.08.020       91.071
9.08.030       91.072
9.08.040       91.073
9.08.050       91.074
9.08.060       91.075
9.08.070       91.076
9.08.120       91.077
9.08.130       91.078
9.08.140       91.079
9.08.150       91.080
9.08.160       91.081
9.08.170       91.082
9.08.180       91.083
9.08.190       91.084
9.10.010       91.095
9.10.020       91.096
9.10.030       91.097
9.10.040       91.098
9.10.050       91.099
9.12.010       91.110
9.12.020       91.111
9.12.030       91.112
9.12.040       91.113
9.12.050       91.114
9.12.060       91.115
9.12.070       91.116
9.12.080       91.117
9.14.010       91.003
9.14.020       91.999
10.02.010      157.080
10.02.020      157.081
10.02.030      157.082
10.02.040      157.083
10.02.050      157.084
10.02.060      157.080
10.02.070      157.085
10.02.070.0100 157.086;
               157.999
10.04.010      157.100
10.04.020      157.101
10.04.030      157.102
10.04.040      157.103
10.04.050      157.104
10.04.060      157.105
10.04.070      157.106
10.04.080      157.107
10.04.080.0100 157.108;
               157.999
10.06.010      157.120
10.06.020      157.121
10.06.030      157.122
10.06.040      157.123
10.06.050      157.124
10.06.060      70.01
10.06.060      157.125
10.06.070      157.126
10.06.080      157.127
10.06.090      157.128
10.06.090.0100 157.129;
               157.999
10.08.010      157.140
10.08.020      157.141
10.08.030      157.142
10.08.040      157.143
10.08.050      157.144
10.08.060      157.145
10.08.070      157.146
10.08.080      157.147
10.08.090      157.148
10.08.090.0100 157.149;
               157.999
10.10.010      71.01
10.10.010      157.160
10.10.020      71.02
10.10.020      157.161
10.10.030      71.03
10.10.030      157.162
10.10.040      71.04
10.10.040      157.163
10.10.050      71.05
10.10.050      157.164
10.10.060      71.06;
               Ch. 72, Schd. I
10.10.060      157.165
10.10.070      71.07
10.10.070      157.166
10.10.080      71.08
10.10.080      157.167
10.10.090      71.99
10.10.090      157.168
10.10.090.0100 157.169;
               157.999
10.10.100      71.09;
               71.99
10.10.110      71.10
10.10.120      71.99
10.10.130      71.11
10.10.140      71.12
10.10.150      71.13
10.10.160      71.13
10.10.170      71.13
10.10.180      71.14
10.10.190      71.15
10.10.200      71.15
10.10.210      71.16
10.10.220      71.17
10.10.230      71.16
10.10.240      71.18
10.10.250      71.19
10.10.260      71.20
10.10.270      71.19
10.10.280      71.16
10.10.290      71.21
10.10.300      71.22
10.10.310      71.23
10.10.320      71.24
10.12.010      90.55
10.12.010      157.180
10.12.020      90.56
10.12.020      157.181
10.12.030      90.57
10.12.030      157.182
10.12.040      90.58
10.12.040      157.183
10.12.050      90.59
10.12.050      157.184
10.12.060      90.60
10.12.060      157.185
10.12.070      90.61
10.12.070      157.186
10.12.080      90.62
10.12.080      157.187
10.12.090      90.63
10.12.090      157.183
10.12.100      90.64
10.12.100      157.188
10.12.100.0100 157.189;
               157.999
10.12.110      90.65
10.12.120      90.66;
               90.99
11.02.030      151.01
12.02          157.200
12.04          157.201
12.12.010      TSO Table V
12.12.010.10   TSO Table V
12.12.010.20   TSO Table V
12.12.020      TSO Table V
12.12.030      TSO Table V
12.12.030.10   TSO Table V
12.12.030.20   TSO Table V
12.12.040      TSO Table V
12.12.050      TSO Table V
12.12.050.10   TSO Table V
12.12.060      TSO Table V
12.12.070      TSO Table V
12.12.080      TSO Table V
12.12.090      TSO Table V
12.12.100      TSO Table V
12.12.100.10   TSO Table V
12.12.110      TSO Table V
12.12.120      TSO Table V
12.12.130      TSO Table V
12.12.150      TSO Table V
12.12.160      TSO Table V
12.12.170      TSO Table V
12.18.020      TSO Table VI
12.18.030      TSO Table VI
12.18.040      TSO Table VI
12.22.050      TSO Table VII
13.01          150.01
13.02.010      33.020
13.02.020      33.021
13.02.030      33.022
13.02.040      33.024
13.02.050      33.025
13.02.060      33.026
13.02.070      33.027
13.08.020      TSO Table I
13.08.030      TSO Table I
13.09.010      114.02
13.09.020      114.03
13.09.030      114.04
13.09.040      114.05
13.09.050      114.06
13.09.060      114.07
13.09.070      114.08
13.09.080      114.09
13.09.090      114.10
13.09.100      114.11
13.09.110      114.01
13.09.120      114.12
13.09.130      114.13
13.10.010      114.26
13.10.020      114.27
13.10.030      114.28
13.10.040      114.29
13.10.050      114.30
13.10.060      114.31
13.10.070      114.32
13.10.080      114.33
13.10.090      114.34
13.10.100      114.35
13.10.110      114.25
13.10.120      114.36
13.11.010      114.50
13.11.020      114.51
13.11.030      114.52
13.11.040      114.53
13.11.050      114.54
13.11.060      114.55
13.11.070      114.56
13.11.080      114.57
13.11.090      114.58
13.12.010      92.01
13.12.020      92.02
13.12.030      92.03
13.12.040      92.04
13.12.050      92.05
13.12.060      92.06
13.12.070      92.07
13.12.080      92.08
13.12.090      92.09
13.12.100      92.10
13.12.110      92.11
13.12.120      92.12
13.12.130      92.13
13.12.140      92.14
13.14.010      93.01
13.14.020      93.02
13.14.030      93.03
13.14.040      93.04
13.14.050      93.05
13.14.060      93.06
13.14.070      93.07
13.14.080      93.08
13.14.090      93.09
13.14.100      93.10
13.14.110      93.11
13.14.120      93.12
13.14.130      93.13
13.14.140      93.14
13.14.150      93.15
13.14.160      93.16
13.14.170      93.17
13.14.180      93.18
13.14.190      93.19
13.14.200      93.20;
               93.99
13.14.210      93.99
13.16.010      153.01
13.16.020      153.02
13.16.030      153.03
13.16.040      153.04;
               153.99
13.16.050      153.05
13.16.060      153.06
13.16.070      153.07
13.16.080      153.08
13.16.100      153.09
13.20.010      154.01
13.20.020      154.02
13.20.030      154.03
13.20.040      154.04
13.20.050      154.05
14.02          157.215
14.02.010      TSO Table II
14.02.020      TSO Table II
14.02.030      TSO Table II
14.02.040      TSO Table II
14.02.050      TSO Table II
14.02.060      TSO Table II
14.02.070      TSO Table II
14.02.080      TSO Table II
14.02.090      TSO Table II
14.02.100      TSO Table II
14.02.110      TSO Table II
14.02.120      TSO Table II
14.02.130      TSO Table II
14.02.140      TSO Table II
14.02.150      TSO Table II
14.02.160      TSO Table II
14.02.170      TSO Table II
14.02.180      TSO Table II
14.02.190      TSO Table II
14.02.200      TSO Table II
14.02.210      TSO Table II
14.02.220      TSO Table II
14.04          157.216
14.04.010      TSO Table III
14.04.020      TSO Table III
14.04.030      TSO Table III
14.04.040      TSO Table III
14.04.050      TSO Table III
14.04.060      TSO Table III
14.04.070      TSO Table III
14.04.080      TSO Table III
14.04.090      TSO Table III
14.04.100      TSO Table III
14.04.110      TSO Table III
14.04.120      TSO Table III
14.04.130      TSO Table III
14.04.140      TSO Table III
14.04.150      TSO Table III
14.04.160      TSO Table III
14.04.170      TSO Table III
14.06.010      TSO Table III
14.08.010      TSO Table III
14.08.020      TSO Table III
15.01.010      156.001
15.01.020      156.002
15.01.030      156.003
15.02.010      156.020
15.02.020      156.021
15.02.030      156.022
15.02.040      156.023
15.02.050      156.024
15.02.060      156.025
15.02.070      156.026
15.02.080      156.027
15.04.010      156.040
15.04.020      156.041
16.02          157.230
16.04          157.231
16.06          157.232
16.08          157.233
16.10          157.234
16.12          157.235
16.14          157.236
16.16          157.237
16.18          157.238
16.30          157.239
16.30.010      157.240;
               157.999
18.02          157.255
18.04          157.256
18.06          157.257
18.08          157.258
18.10          157.259
18.12          157.260
18.14          157.261
18.16          157.262
18.16.010      157.263
18.16010.0100  157.264;
               157.999
20.02          157.275
20.04          157.276
20.06          157.277
20.08          157.278
22.02          157.290
22.04          157.291
22.06          157.292
22.08          157.293
22.10          157.294
22.12          157.295
22.12.010      157.296;
               157.999
23.02          157.310
23.04          157.310
23.06          157.311
23.08          157.312
23.10          157.315
23.12          157.316
23.12.010      157.317;
               157.999
24.02          157.330
24.04          157.331
24.06          157.332
24.08          157.333
24.10          157.334
24.12          157.335
24.14          157.336
26.02          157.350
26.04          157.351
26.06          157.352
26.08          157.353
26.10          157.354
26.12          157.355
26.14          157.356
28.02          157.370
28.04          157.371
28.06          157.372
28.08          157.373
28.10          157.374
28.12          157.375
28.12.10       157.376;
               157.999
30.02          157.390
30.04          157.391
30.06          157.392
30.08          157.393
30.10          157.394
30.12          157.395
31.01          157.410
31.02          157.411
31.03          157.412
31.04          157.413
31.05          157.414
31.06          157.416
31.07          157.417
31.08          157.418
31.09          157.419
32.02          157.430
32.04          157.431
32.06          157.432
32.08          157.433
32.10          157.434
32.12          157.435
32.14          157.438
32.22          157.436
32.24          157.437
33.02          157.455
33.04          157.456
33.06          157.457
33.08          157.458
33.10          157.459
33.12          157.460
33.14          157.461
33.16          157.462
33.18          157.463
33.20          157.464
33.22          157.465
33.24          157.466
33.26          157.467
33.28          157.468
33.30          157.469
33.32          157.470
33.34          157.471
33.36          157.472
33.38          157.473
33.40          157.474
33.42          157.475
33.44          157.476
33.48          157.478
33.50          157.479
33.52          157.480
34.01          157.495
34.02          157.496
34.03          157.497
34.04          157.498
34.05          157.499
34.06          157.500;
               157.999
34.07          157.501
35.01          157.515
35.02          157.516
35.03          157.517
35.04          157.518
35.05          157.519
35.06          157.520
35.07          157.521
35.08          157.522
35.09          157.523
35.10          157.524
35.11          157.525
35.12          157.526
35.13          157.527
35.14          157.528
35.15          157.529
36.02          157.540
36.04          157.541
36.06          157.542
36.08          157.543
36.10          157.544
38.02          157.555
38.04          157.556
40.02          157.570
40.04          157.571
40.06          157.572
40.08          157.573
40.10          157.574
40.12          157.575
40.14          157.576
42.02          157.590
42.03          157.591
42.04          157.592
42.06          157.593
42.08          157.594
42.10          157.595
42.12          157.596
42.14          157.597
42.15          157.598
42.16          157.599
42.18          157.600
42.20          157.601
42.22          157.602
42.24          157.603
42.26          157.604
42.28          157.605
42.30          157.606
42.32          157.607
42.34          157.608
42.36          157.609
42.38          157.610
42.40          157.611
42.42          157.612
42.44          157.613
42.46          157.614
42.48          157.615
42.50          157.616
42.56          157.617
42.58          157.618
44.02          157.630
44.04          157.631
44.06          157.632
44.08          157.633
44.10          157.634
44.12          157.635
44.14          157.636
44.16          157.637
44.18          157.638
44.20          157.639
44.22          157.640
46.02          157.655
46.04          157.656
46.06          157.657
46.08          157.658
46.10          157.659
46.12          157.660
46.14          157.661
46.16          157.662
48.02          157.675
48.04          157.676
48.06          157.677
48.08          157.678
48.10          157.679
50.02          157.690
50.04          157.691
50.06          157.692
52.02          157.705
52.04          157.706
52.06          157.707
52.08          157.708
52.10          157.709
52.12          157.710
52.14          157.711
52.16          157.712
52.18          157.713
52.20          157.714
52.22          157.715
54.02          157.730
54.04          157.731
54.06          157.732
54.14          157.735
54.16          157.736
54.22          157.737
56.02          157.755
56.04          157.756
56.06          157.757
56.08          157.758
56.10          157.759
56.12          157.760
56.14          157.761
57.010         157.775
57.020         157.776
57.030         157.777
57.040         157.778
57.050         157.779
57.060         157.780
57.070         157.781
57.080         157.782
57.090         157.783
57.100         157.784
57.110         157.785
58.02          157.800
58.04          157.801
58.06          157.802
58.08          157.803
60.02          157.815
60.04          157.816
60.06          157.817
60.08          157.818
60.10          157.819
60.12          157.820
60.14          157.821
60.16          157.822
60.18          157.823
60.20          157.824
60.22          157.825
60.24          157.826
62.02.010      157.840
62.02.020      157.841
62.02.030      157.842
62.04.010      157.843
62.04.020      157.843
62.04.030      157.843
62.04.040      157.843
62.04.050      157.843
62.04.060      157.843
62.04.070      157.843
62.06.010      157.843
62.06.020      157.843
62.08.010      157.845
62.08.020      157.845
62.08.030      157.845
62.08.040      157.845
62.08.050      157.845
62.08.060      157.845
62.08.070      157.845
62.08.080      157.845
62.08.090      157.845
62.10.010      157.846
62.10.020      157.846
62.10.030      157.846
62.10.040      157.846
62.10.050      157.846
62.12.010      157.846
62.12.020      157.846
62.12.030      157.846
62.12.040      157.846
62.12.050      157.846
62.12.060      157.846
62.12.070      157.846
62.12.080      157.847
62.12.090      157.847
62.14.010      157.848
62.14.020      157.848
62.14.030      157.848
62.14.040      157.848
62.14.050      157.848
62.14.060      157.848
62.14.070      157.848
62.14.080      157.848
62.14.090      157.848
62.14.100      157.848
62.14.110      157.848
62.16.010      157.849
62.16.020      157.849
62.16.030      157.849
62.18.010      157.850
62.18.020      157.999
62.22.010      157.851
62.22.020      157.851
62.22.030      157.851
62.22.040      157.851
62.22.050      157.851
62.22.060      157.999
63.01.010      157.865
63.01.020      157.866
63.02          157.868
64.02          157.880
64.04          157.881
64.06          157.882
64.08          157.883
66.02          157.895
66.04          157.896
66.06          157.897
66.08          157.898
66.10          157.899
68.02          157.910
68.04          157.911
68.06          157.912
68.08          157.913
68.10          157.914
70.02          157.925
70.04          157.926
70.06          157.927
70.08          157.928
70.10          157.929
70.12          157.930
70.14          157.931
70.16          157.932
70.18          157.933
70.20          157.934
70.22          157.935
70.24          157.936
70.26          157.937
70.28          157.938
70.30          157.939;
               157.999
72.02          157.950
72.04          157.951
72.06          157.952
72.08          157.953
72.10          157.954
72.12          157.955
74.02          157.970
74.04          157.971
74.06          157.972
               
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         TSO Table VIII
05-09    - -         157.430-
                     157.438
                     33.055-
3-91     7-17-1991   33.058;
                     33.999
6-91     8-21-1991   TSO Table I
9-91     12-23-1991  TSO Table III
                     157.001-
                     157.004;
                     157.015-
                     157.020;
                     157.035-
                     157.048;
                     157.060-
                     157.067;
                     157.080-
                     157.084;
                     157.100-
                     157.106;
                     157.120-
                     157.127;
                     157.140-
                     157.147;
                     157.160-
                     157.167;
                     157.180-
                     157.187;
                     157.200-
                     157.216;
                     157.230-
                     157.238;
                     157.255-
                     157.262;
                     157.275-
                     157.278;
                     157.290-
                     157.294;
                     157.310-
                     157.312;
                     157.315;
                     157.330-
                     157.335;
                     157.350-
                     157.355;
                     157.370-
                     157.374;
                     157.390-
                     157.395;
2-92     - -1992     157.430-
                     157.438;
                     157.515-
                     157.529;
                     157.555-
                     157.556;
                     157.570-
                     157.576;
                     157.590-
                     157.618;
                     157.630-
                     157.640;
                     157.655-
                     157.662;
                     157.675-
                     157.679;
                     157.690-
                     157.692;
                     157.705-
                     157.715;
                     157.730-
                     157.737;
                     157.755-
                     157.761;
                     157.800-
                     157.803;
                     157.815-
                     157.826;
                     157.840-
                     157.851;
                     157.880-
                     157.883;
                     157.895-
                     157.899;
                     157.910-
                     157.914;
                     157.925-
                     157.939;
                     157.950-
                     157.955;
                     157.970-
                     157.972;
                     157.999
                     156.001-
                     156.003;
                     156.020-
                     156.027;
                     156.040;
                     156.041;
                     156.055-
3-92     1-15-1992   156.062;
                     156.075-
                     156.079;
                     156.090-
                     156.093;
                     156.105;
                     156.106;
                     156.999
13-92    5-6-1992    157.555;
                     157.556
14-92    5-6-1992    TSO Table I
15-92    6-3-1992    TSO Table I
17-92    10-7-1992   157.570-
                     157.576
18-92    12-2-1992   33.027
21-92    12-16-1992  156.091
1-93     2-3-1993    115.01
2-93     3-17-1993   TSO Table IV
3-93-A   4-14-1993   156.001
3-93-B   6-16-1993   131.01;
                     131.99
5-93     7-7-1993    151.01
7-93     7-21-1993   TSO Table IV
4-93     8-4-1993    157.617
8-93     9-1-1993    33.023
10-93    11-3-1993   TSO Table IV
1-94     1-5-1994    31.03
4-94     6-15-1994   TSO Table IV
9-92     7-20-1994   50.01
4-95     3-15-1995   156.090
                     93.01-
                     93.15;
5-95     4-19-1995   93.17-
                     93.20;
                     93.99
6-95     6-21-1995   TSO Table IV
7-95     8-16-1995   TSO Table IV
9-95     9-6-1995    TSO Table IV
10-95    9-6-1995    TSO Table IV
11-95    9-6-1995    TSO Table III
12-95    10-18-1995  157.606
1-96     2-7-1996    156.091
2-96     3-20-1996   156.041
                     113.01;
1-97     3-5-1997    113.02;
                     113.99
3-97     8-6-1997    TSO Table III
4-97     9-3-1997    157.081-
                     157.084
5-97     9-3-1997    TSO Table IV
7-97     11-5-1997   TSO Table IV
8-97     11-5-1997   TSO Table IV
9-97     11-5-1997   TSO Table III
1-98     3-4-1998    TSO Table IV
2-98     3-4-1998    157.618
9-98     5-6-1998    156.091
10-98    5-20-1998   114.01-
                     114.13
11-98    5-20-1998   114.25-
                     114.36
13-98    5-20-1998   114.50-
                     114.58
14-98    5-20-1998   33.070-
                     33.077
16-98    6-3-1998    TSO Table III
17-98    6-3-1998    156.028
21-98    8-5-1998    157.617
23-98    10-7-1998   156.063
                     112.01-
                     112.22;
25-98    10-7-1998   112.99;
                     157.540-
                     157.544
26-98    11-18-1998  156.005
3-99     5-5-1999    TSO Table IV
4-99     6-2-1999    TSO Table IV
9-99     7-21-1999   157.067
11-99    10-20-1999  157.692
13-99    11-17-1999  TSO Table IV
                     157.925-
15-99    12-1-1999   157.939;
                     157.999
16-99    12-1-1999   156.006
17-99    12-1-1999   TSO Table IV
01-2000  1-5-2000    TSO Table IV
02-2000  1-5-2000    TSO Table IV
07-2000  3-1-2000    TSO Table IV
8-2000   5-17-2000   131.04
12-2000  10-4-2000   TSO Table IV
13-2000  10-18-2000  TSO Table VI
14-2000  10-18-2000  TSO Table VI
11-2000  11-15-2000  156.091
                     130.01;
02-2001  2-7-2001    130.02;
                     130.99
04-2001  5-16-2001   157.293
08-2001  8-1-2001    157.617
09-2001  8-1-2001    156.058
12-2001  11-21-2001  TSO Table IV
04-2002  6-19-2002   90.40-
                     90.44
05-2002  6-19-2002   150.01
08-2002  8-7-2002    TSO Table III
09-2002  8-7-2002    TSO Table IV
10-2002  9-18-2002   TSO Table III
12-2002  10-2-2002   TSO Table IV
13-2002  11-6-2002   TSO Table IV
14-2002  11-6-2002   TSO Table IV
15-2002  11-6-2002   TSO Table IV
16-2002  11-20-2002  TSO Table IV
18-2002  12-4-2002   TSO Table IV
01-2003  1-15-2003   150.01
06-2003  6-5-2003    31.05
09-2003  7-16-2003   91.021
11-2003  8-20-2003   93.04
7-2003   9-17-2003   157.755-
                     157.761
13-2003  9-17-2003   157.290
12-2003  10-15-2003  31.01
01-2004  1-7-2004    TSO Table IV
02-2004  1-21-2004   31.02;
                     31.99
03-2004  2-4-2004    TSO Table IV
04-2004  2-4-2004    TSO Table IV
05-2004  2-4-2004    TSO Table IV
06-2004  2-18-2004   150.01
07-2004  2-18-2004   TSO Table IV
09-2004  4-7-2004    TSO Table IV
10-2004  4-7-2004    TSO Table IV
                     33.110-
12-2004  5-19-2004   33.114;
                     TSO Table IX
13-2004  6-2-2004    TSO Table IV
15-2004  6-16-2004   TSO Table IV
16-2004  6-16-2004   31.01
18-2004  8-4-2004    TSO Table IV
                     90.55-
19-2004  9-1-2004    90.66;
                     90.99
20-2004  9-1-2004    156.004
                     110.01-
21-2004  9-15-2004   110.10;
                     110.99
23-2004  12-15-2004  TSO Table IV
5-2005   1-19-2005   TSO Table IV
06-2005  2-2-2005    TSO Table III
7-2005   2-16-2005   TSO Table IV
10-2005  7-20-2005   TSO Table IV
13-2005  11-2-2005   157.003
14-2005  11-16-2005  150.01
15-2005  11-16-2005  TSO Table IV
16-2005  11-16-2005  154.01-
                     154.05
18-2005  12-7-2005   156.007
02-2006  2-1-2006    157.232
04-2006  2-15-2006   157.335;
                     157.355
07-2006  6-21-2006   TSO Table IV
08-2006  6-21-2006   TSO Table VII
                     111.01-
12-2006  8-16-2006   111.20;
                     111.99
13-2006  8-16-2006   TSO Table IV
14-2006  9-6-2006    TSO Table IV
17-2006  12-6-2006   TSO Table IV
01-2007  1-3-2007    TSO Table IV
04-2007  5-16-2007   TSO Table IV
05-2007  8-15-2007   TSO Table IV
08-2007  8-15-2007   157.597;
                     157.598
09-2007  8-15-2007   TSO Table II
10-2007  8-15-2007   TSO Table II
11-2007  8-15-2007   TSO Table II
12-2007  9-19-2007   TSO Table II
                     35.20-
13-2007  10-3-2007   35.23;
                     35.99
15-2007  10-3-2007   TSO Table IV
17-2007  11-7-2007   TSO Table III
16-2007  12-5-2007   TSO Table II
02-2008  2-20-2008   TSO Table II
03-2008  2-20-2008   TSO Table II
04-2008  3-19-2008   TSO Table II
06-2008  4-16-2008   150.01
07-2008  4-16-2008   TSO Table II
08-2008  5-7-2008    TSO Table II
09-2008  6-3-2008    TSO Table IV
12-2008  6-18-2008   TSO Table II
14-2008  8-6-2008    TSO Table IV
15-2008  8-6-2008    TSO Table II
                     153.01-
18-2008  11-5-2008   153.09;
                     153.99
19-2008  12-17-2008  TSO Table II
01-2009  1-21-2009   TSO Table IV
02-2009  1-21-2009   TSO Table VI
03-2009  2-18-2009   33.090-
                     33.095
09-2009  6-17-2009   TSO Table II
11-2009  9-2-2009    TSO Table IV
03-2010  3-17-2010   TSO Table II
09-2010  10-20-2010  131.03;
                     131.99
10-2010  11-17-2010  TSO Table IV
03-2011  5-18-2011   TSO Table II
06-2011  9-21-2011   33.001
01-2012  1-4-2012    TSO Table IV
03-2012  4-4-2012    157.950-
                     157.955
08-2012  9-19-2012   TSO Table II
09-2012  9-19-2012   TSO Table IV
07-2012  10-3-2012   TSO Table IV
02-2013  2-6-2013    TSO Table IV
03-2013  2-20-2013   TSO Table IV
                     91.001-
                     91.003;
                     91.015-
                     91.021;
                     91.035-
                     91.042;
                     91.055-
04-2013  3-6-2013    91.059;
                     91.070-
                     91.084;
                     91.095-
                     91.099;
                     91.110-
                     91.117;
                     91.999
05-2013  3-6-2013    93.16
06-2013  4-3-2013    TSO Table II
07-2013  4-3-2013    TSO Table II
08-2013  4-17-2013   TSO Table IV
09-2013  6-5-2013    TSO Table IV
10-2013  6-5-2013    TSO Table IV
14-2013  9-18-2013   TSO Table IV
16-2013  11-6-2013   TSO Table IV
20-2013  12-18-2013  TSO Table II
21-2013  12-18-2013  TSO Table IV
22-2013  12-18-2013  TSO Table IV
03-2014  2-5-2014    TSO Table IV
01-2014  2-19-2014   TSO Table III
02-2014  2-19-2014   TSO Table III
04-2014  2-19-2014   TSO Table IV
06-2014  2-19-2014   157.335;
                     157.355
07-2014  3-5-2014    150.01
08-2014  3-19-2014   TSO Table IV
09-2014  4-16-2014   TSO Table IV
10-2014  5-21-2014   TSO Table IV
11-2014  6-4-2014    TSO Table IV
05-2014  10-15-2014  TSO Table IV
15-2014  10-15-2014  TSO Table IV
18-2014  11-19-2014  TSO Table IV
19-2014  11-19-2014  TSO Table III
24-2014  12-17-2014  TSO Table IV
02-2015  1-7-2015    157.035-
                     157.048
                     157.100-
03-2015  1-7-2015    157.106;
                     157.160-
                     157.167
04-2015  1-21-2015   TSO Table IV
07-2015  3-18-2015   TSO Table IV
08-2015  5-20-2015   TSO Table IV
14-2015  8-5-2015    157.237;
                     157.261
16-2015  8-19-2015   TSO Table IV
17-2015  8-19-2015   TSO Table IV
11-2015  10-7-2015   TSO Table IV
19-2015  10-21-2015  157.730-
                     157.740
20-2015  11-4-2015   TSO Table IV
21-2015  11-4-2015   TSO Table IV
23-2015  12-16-2015  TSO Table IV
01-2016  1-20-2016   TSO Table IV
02-2016  2-3-2016    TSO Table IV
03-2016  2-17-2016   TSO Table IV
04-2016  3-2-2016    TSO Table IV
06-2016  3-16-2016   157.515-
                     157.529
07-2016  4-20-2016   TSO Table I
08-2016  5-4-2016    157.330-
                     157.335
09-2016  6-15-2016   TSO Table IV
11-2016  6-15-2016   90.01-
                     90.03
14-2016  7-20-2016   TSO Table IV
15-2016  7-20-2016   TSO Table IV
19-2016  9-7-2016    TSO Table IV
20-2016  9-7-2016    TSO Table IV
21-2016  10-19-2016  TSO Table IV
22-2016  11-2-2016   TSO Table IV
23-2016  11-16-2016  TSO Table IV
24-2016  12-7-2016   TSO Table IV
25-2016  12-7-2016   TSO Table IV
26-2016  12-21-2016  TSO Table IV
                     90.20-
27-2016  12-21-2016  90.25;
                     90.99
01-2017  1-18-2017   TSO Table IV
03-2017  2-15-2017   TSO Table IV
04-2017  2-15-2017   TSO Table V
05-2017  2-15-2017   TSO Table I
06-2017  3-1-2017    TSO Table IV
07-2017  3-1-2017    TSO Table IV
08-2017  3-1-2017    TSO Table IV
09-2017  3-15-2017   TSO Table IV
10-2017  4-19-2017   TSO Table III
11-2017  4-19-2017   TSO Table III
12-2017  4-19-2017   TSO Table IV
13-2017  5-17-2017   TSO Table IV
14-2017  6-7-2017    92.01-
                     92.14
19-2017  7-19-2017   TSO Table III
20-2017  7-19-2017   TSO Table IV
21-2017  12-6-2017   TSO Table IV
22-2017  12-20-2017  TSO Table IV
23-2017  12-20-2017  TSO Table V
01-2018  1-17-2018   TSO Table IV
02-2018  2-7-2018    TSO Table IV
03-2018  3-7-2018    TSO Table IV
                     71.01-
04-2018  4-18-2018   71.22;
                     71.99;
                     Ch. 72, Schd. I
06-2018  5-2-2018    33.002
08-2018  6-6-2018    150.01
09-2018  6-20-2018   TSO Table V
12-2018  7-18-2018   TSO Table V
13-2018  8-1-2018    TSO Table III
14-2018  8-1-2018    TSO Table IV
15-2018  8-15-2018   TSO Table IV
18-2018  9-5-2018    TSO Table IV
19-2018  9-5-2018    TSO Table IV
20-2018  9-18-2018   TSO Table V
21-2018  10-3-2018   TSO Table IV
22-2018  11-7-2018   TSO Table V
23-2018  11-7-2018   TSO Table IV
24-2018  11-7-2018   TSO Table IV
25-2018  11-7-2018   TSO Table IV
26-2018  11-7-2018   TSO Table V
27-2018  11-21-2018  TSO Table IV
01-2019  1-16-2019   TSO Table IV
                     157.310-
02-2019  1-16-2019   157.312;
                     157.315
03-2019  1-16-2019   150.01
04-2019  2-6-2019    150.01
05-2019  2-6-2019    33.003
06-2019  3-6-2019    TSO Table V
07-2019  3-20-2019   TSO Table V
09-2019  3-20-2019   131.02;
                     131.99
08-2019  4-3-2019    TSO Table V
10-2019  4-3-2019    TSO Table IV
12-2019  4-17-2019   TSO Table V
13-2019  4-17-2019   TSO Table IV
08-2019  5-15-2019   TSO Table III
15-2019  5-15-2019   TSO Table V
16-2019  6-5-2019    TSO Table IV
17-2019  6-5-2019    TSO Table IV
21-2019  6-19-2019   TSO Table V
22-2019  7-3-2019    TSO Table V
23-2019  7-3-2019    TSO Table V
25-2019  7-17-2019   71.06;
                     Ch. 72, Schd. I
26-2019  7-17-2019   70.01
11-2019  8-7-2019    TSO Table III
24-2019  8-7-2019    TSO Table V
28-2019  9-4-2019    TSO Table IV
30-2019  9-4-2019    157.003;
                     157.868
32-2019  10-2-2019   TSO Table V
27-2019  10-16-2019  TSO Table V
                     33.020-
34-2019  10-16-2019  33.022;
                     33.024-
                     33.026
35-2019  11-6-2019   TSO Table V
                     157.120-
                     157.125;
36-2019  11-6-2019   157.140-
                     157.144;
                     157.181-
                     157.185
37-2019  11-6-2019   150.01
33-2019  11-20-2019  157.761
38-2019  11-20-2019  157.081-
                     157.084
                     34.01-
40-2019  11-20-2019  34.08,
                     34.10-
                     34.15
41-2019  12-4-2019   TSO Table IV
                     91.002;
39-2019  12-18-2019  157.003;
                     157.865,
                     157.866
42-2019  12-18-2019  TSO Table V
                     71.03;
                     71.06;
                     71.13;
01-2020  1-15-2020   71.14;
                     71.17;
                     71.23;
                     71.24;
                     Ch. 72, Schd. I
02-2020  1-15-2020   TSO Table IV
                     90.04;
05-2020  4-1-2020    90.05;
                     90.99
08-2020  4-1-2020    TSO Table III
09-2020  4-1-2020    TSO Table III
10-2020  5-6-2020    157.120-
                     157.127
                     157.455-
11-2020  5-6-2020    157.476,
                     157.478-
                     157.480
12-2020  5-6-2020    157.495-
                     157.501
13-2020  5-6-2020    157.631-
                     157.640
14-2020  5-6-2020    157.015-
                     157.019
15-2020  5-6-2020    71.06;
                     Ch. 72, Schd. I
                     71.03;
                     71.06;
                     71.13;
16-2020  5-20-2020   71.14;
                     71.17;
                     71.23;
                     71.24;
                     Ch. 72, Schd. I
                     31.20-
18-2020  5-20-2020   31.24;
                     31.35;
                     31.36
                     157.143-
19-2020  5-20-2020   157.145;
                     157.147
                     157.161;
20-2020  5-20-2020   157.163-
                     157.165
                     31.04;
21-2020  5-20-2020   35.01-
                     35.06
22-2020  5-20-2020   TSO Table IV
                     157.004;
                     157.085;
                     157.086;
                     157.107;
                     157.108;
                     157.128;
                     157.129;
                     157.148;
                     157.149;
                     157.168;
                     157.169;
23-2020  6-17-2020   157.188;
                     157.189;
                     157.239;
                     157.240;
                     157.263;
                     157.264;
                     157.295;
                     157.296;
                     157.316;
                     157.317;
                     157.336;
                     157.356;
                     157.999
26-2020  7-1-2020    32.02
27-2020  7-1-2020    71.06;
                     Ch. 72, Schd. I
                     157.181;
28-2020  7-1-2020    157.183;
                     157.184
29-2020  7-1-2020    150.01
07-2020  7-17-2020   TSO Table IV
30-2020  8-5-2020    TSO Table IV
32-2020  8-5-2020    TSO Table V
33-2020  8-19-2020   TSO Table V
31-2020  9-16-2020   150.01
34-2020  10-7-2020   TSO Table III
35-2020  10-7-2020   TSO Table III
37-2020  10-21-2020  TSO Table IV
38-2020  10-21-2020  157.410-
                     157.419
39-2020  11-4-2020   51.01-
                     51.09
42-2020  11-16-2020  TSO Table IV
40-2020  11-18-2020  TSO Table IV
                     157.881-
45-2020  11-18-2020  157.883;
                     157.914
46-2020  11-18-2020  TSO Table II
41-2020  12-2-2020   TSO Table IV
47-2020  12-16-2020  32.02
48-2020  12-16-2020  TSO Table IV
50-2020  12-16-2020  33.004
49-2020  1-6-2021    TSO Table IV
01-2021  1-6-2021    TSO Table IV
02-2021  1-20-2021   TSO Table IV
                     157.232;
03-2021  2-3-2021    157.234-
                     157.238
04-2021  2-3-2021    157.257-
                     157.261
06-2021  2-3-2021    157.865;
                     157.866
07-2021  2-3-2021    157.495-
                     157.498
05-2021  2-17-2021   TSO Table IV
                     157.230;
10-2021  2-17-2021   157.237;
                     157.239
                     157.261;
11-2021  2-17-2021   157.263;
                     157.264;
                     157.999
09-2021  3-3-2021    157.591
12-2021  3-17-2021   TSO Table II
13-2021  4-7-2021    TSO Table IV
14-2021  4-7-2021    TSO Table II
17-2021  4-7-2021    TSO Table III
18-2021  4-22-2021   TSO Table IV
19-2021  5-5-2021    TSO Table III
22-2021  6-2-2021    150.01
20-2021  6-16-2021   TSO Table V
25-2021  7-7-2021    157.865
26-2021  7-7-2021    TSO Table III
27-2021  7-7-2021    TSO Table IV
21-2021  7-21-2021   157.290-
                     157.294
                     157.085;
                     157.086;
                     157.107;
                     157.108;
                     157.128;
                     157.129;
                     157.148;
                     157.149;
                     157.168;
                     157.169;
                     157.188;
29-2021  7-21-2021   157.189;
                     157.239;
                     157.240;
                     157.263;
                     157.264;
                     157.295;
                     157.296;
                     157.336;
                     157.356;
                     157.375;
                     157.376;
                     157.999
31-2021  8-18-2021   TSO Table IV
34-2021  11-3-2021   157.775-
                     157.785
35-2021  12-15-2021  TSO Table IV
36-2021  12-21-2021  157.755-
                     157.761
03-2022  2- -2022    TSO Table IV
01-2022  2-2-2022    151.15
02-2022  2-16-2022   TSO Table II
04-2022  3-2-2022    157.410-
                     157.419
                     157.004;
                     157.123;
05-2022  3--2022     157.143;
                     157.163;
                     157.230
06-2022  3-16-2022   157.730-
                     157.737
07-2022  5-4-2022    157.865
08-2022  5-4-2022    TSO Table II
09-2022  5-18-2022   33.020-
                     33.027
12-2022  7-6-2022    TSO Table IV
13-2022  7-6-2022    157.985-
                     157.996
16-2022  8-17-2022   157.880-
                     157.883
17-2022  9-7-2022    157.865
                     157.083,
                     157.124,
                     157.125,
                     157.144,
                     157.145,
                     157.164,
18-2022  9-7-2022    157.165,
                     157.184,
                     157.236,
                     157.260,
                     157.414,
                     157.416,
                     157.605
19-2022  9-7-2022    TSO Table IV
20-2022  9-7-2022    TSO Table IV
21-2022  9-7-2022    Adopting Ordinance
22-2022  9-21-2022   TSO Table V
23-2022  9-21-2022   TSO Table IV
24-2022  9-21-2022   TSO Table IV
25-2022  10-5-2022   TSO Table IV
26-2022  9-21-2022   TSO Table IV
29-2022  10-5-2022   TSO Table IV
30-2022  10-5-2022   TSO Table IV
31-2022  10-5-2022   TSO Table IV
32-2022  10-5-2022   TSO Table IV
33-2022  12-7-2022   TSO Table IV
34-2022  12-7-2022   33.006
                     34.09,
36-2022  1-4-2023    36.01-
                     36.22
                     32.04-
01-2023  1-4-2023    32.08,
                     32.15,
                     32.16
                     30.01-
02-2023  1-4-2023    30.06,
                     30.99
03-2023  2-1-2023    157.410-
                     157.419
04-2023  2-1-2023    TSO Table IV
05-2023  2-1-2023    TSO Table V
07-2023  4-5-2023    157.630-
                     157.640
08-2023  4-5-2023    TSO Table IV
10-2023  5-3-2023    TSO Table V
11-2023  6-7-2023    TSO Table IV
14-2023  6-7-2023    33.007
12-2023  6-21-2023   157.755-
                     157.761
13-2023  7-5-2023    157.310 -
                     157.317
18-2023  9- -2023    157.064
20-2023  10-18-2023  151.15
22-2023  11-1-2023   154.01 -
                     154.05
                     30.03,
23-2023  11-1-2023   90.04,
                     90.99
24-2023  11-15-2023  TSO Table IV
25-2023  11-15-2023  TSO Table V
                     10.05,
                     33.001 -
                     33.004,
                     33.006,
                     33.007,
                     90.04,
                     92.10,
26-2023  1-3-2024    93.03,
                     156.023,
                     156.106,
                     157.018,
                     157.045,
                     157.843,
                     157.899,
                     157.914
27-2023  12-6-2023   36.22
28-2023  12-6-2023   90.42
01-2024  1-17-2024   10.99
02-2024  1-17-2024   33.023
03-2024  1-17-2024   TSO Table V
04-2024  2-7-2024    157.591
                     155.001,
                     155.002,
                     155.015 -
                     155.020,
                     155.040 -
05-2024  2-7-2024    155.043,
                     155.075 -
                     155.079,
                     155.090 -
                     155.093,
                     155.999
                     152.001,
                     152.002,
                     152.010 -
                     152.012,
06-2024  3-6-2024    152.020 -
                     152.033,
                     152.090,
                     152.091,
                     155.999
08-2024  3-20-2024   TSO Table V
10-2024  5-1-2024    TSO Table IV
                     33.021,
                     33.022,
11-2024  5-1-2024    33.023,
                     33.025,
                     33.026
                     33.021,
                     33.022,
12-2024  5-1-2024    33.023,
                     33.025,
                     33.026
13-2024  5-15-2024   114.05
                     32.04 -
14-2024  5-15-2024   32.08,
                     32.15,
                     32.16
                     157.083,
                     157.124,
                     157.125,
                     157.144,
                     157.145,
15-2024  5-15-2024   157.164,
                     157.165,
                     157.184,
                     157.236,
                     157.260,
                     157.601,
                     157.605
16-2024  5-15-2024   157.310,
                     157.311
17-2024  5-15-2024   157.757 -
                     157.759
18-2024  5-15-2024   TSO Table II
19-2024  5-15-2024   TSO Table II
20-2024  6-5-2024    32.04,
                     32.05
22-2024  6-13-2024   31.04
23-2024  7-3-2024    157.469,
                     157.470
24-2024  8-7-2024    33.007
25-2024  8-7-2024    90.02
26-2024  9-18-2024   157.570 -
                     157.577
                     157.430,
27-2024  9-18-2024   157.432 -
                     157.441
29-2024  8-21-2024   TSO Table V
30-2024  9-18-2024   TSO Table V
                     71.03,
31-2024  9-18-2024   71.04,
                     71.06
34-2024  11-6-2024   31.35,
                     31.36
36-2024  11-6-2024   TSO Table II
37-2024  11-20-2024  32.16
                     92.05,
38-2024  12-18-2024  92.06,
                     92.08,
                     92.09
39-2024  12-18-2024  TSO Table IV
40-2024  12-18-2024  TSO Table V
41-2024  12-18-2024  157.756,
                     157.759
42-2024  12-18-2024  157.310,
                     157.315
01-2025  2-19-2025   156.002
02-2025  3-19-2025   TSO Table IV
03-2025  5-7-2025    TSO Table IV
                    
 
