VILLAGE OF ARCHBOLD, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-24, passed 3-6-2024
State Legislation current through 6-8-2021
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
Ordinance 08-61
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF ARCHBOLD, STATE
OF OHIO, AND REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision have been subjected to substantial review and revision, requiring
rearranging and reclassification in a form and substance sufficient for the
complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the municipality and for the continued and proper conduct of its affairs;
and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Ohio empower and authorize
Ohio political subdivisions generally, and the Village of Archbold
specifically, to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any existing
ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to
incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Archbold Village Council has authorized a general compilation,
revision and re-codification of the ordinances of the Village of Archbold of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE ARCHBOLD VILLAGE COUNCIL THAT:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Village of Archbold as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Village of Archbold,
Archbold, Ohio."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
ARCHBOLD, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
   CHARTER
         Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
            10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
            30.   Village Council
            31.   Public Safety
            32.   Personnel Policies
            33.   Income Tax
            34.   Finance
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
            50.   Solid Waste
            51.   Water
            52.   Sewers
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
            70.   General Provisions
            71.   Licensing Provisions
            72.   Traffic Rules
            73.   Motor Vehicle Crimes
            74.   Equipment and Loads
            75.   Bicycles
            76.   Parking Regulations
            77.   Traffic Schedules
            78.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
            90.   Animals
            91.   Fireworks, Explosives, Fire Prevention
            92.   Intoxicating Liquors
            93.   Village Parks
            94.   Village Cemetery
            95.   Streets and Sidewalks
            96.   Trees
            97.   Noise
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
            110.   General Licensing Provisions
            111.   Peddlers, Itinerant Merchants and Solicitors
            112.   Cable Television
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
            130.   General Provisions
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
            150.   Flood Damage Prevention
            151.   Subdivision Regulations
            152.   Zoning Code
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
         Table
            I.   Acceptances and Dedications
            II.   Annexations
            III.   Easements
            IV.   Franchises
            V.   Real Estate Transactions
            VI.   Rezonings
            VII. Vacations
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
            History References to Ohio Revised Code
            References to Resolutions
            References to Ordinances
   INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Archbold Village Council, and the Village Administrator for
the Village of Archbold is hereby authorized and ordered to file and maintain a
copy or copies of such Code of Ordinances in all applicable locations where
such information is properly filed and maintained.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Archbold Village Council on this 6th day of October,
2008.
      _______________________________________________
               James S. Wyse, Mayor
Attest: ______________________________________________
      Laurie J. Storrer, Clerk of Council
ORDINANCE 10-08
ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF
ARCHBOLD, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2009 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision: and
Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio; and
Whereas, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE VILLAGE OF ARCHBOLD.
Section 1.   That the 2009 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided date by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 18th day of January, 2010.
                                 _______________________________________________
                                 James S. Wyse, Mayor
Attest:   ______________________________________________
      Laurie J. Storrer, Clerk of Council
ORDINANCE 12-41
   ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE
OF ARCHBOLD, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2012 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio; and
Whereas, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE VILLAGE OF ARCHBOLD.
Section 1.   That the 2012 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided date by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 2nd day of July, 2012.
                           _______________________________________________
                              Jeffrey D. Fryman, President of Council
Attest: ______________________________________________
      Laurie J. Storrer, Clerk of Council
CHARTER
   CERTIFICATION TO THE CITIZENS OF THE VILLAGE OF ARCHBOLD, OHIO
   In November, 1995, the voters of Archbold elected a fifteen member Charter
Commission to study different forms of government as well as our present form
to determine what form of government would best serve our community. Our major
objective was to meet both present and future needs of Archbold and provide the
electorate an efficient and professional form of government.
   We are privileged, in the State of Ohio, to have “Home Rule” which permits
municipalities to secure the maximum of self-government through the adoption of
a Charter. Without a Charter, our municipality must operate according to the
Municipal Code of the State of Ohio -- as adopted by the state legislature in
Columbus. With a Charter, we are not rigidly bound by state law but are free to
develop our own variations in the form of our local government to more
effectively meet the challenges of a growing community. We are limited only by
provisions of the Constitution of Ohio and our own Charter.
   Commission members have met for several months of study and research, and
are pleased to submit to you the enclosed Charter which best provides for the
present and future interest of Archbold. Listed below is a summary highlighting
the primary provisions included in this Charter:
   This Charter will take effect on January 1, 1997.
   This Charter establishes a cooperative; Council, Mayor-Administrator form of
government.
   This Charter provides for a six (6) member Council, elected at large, for
four (4) year terms.
   This Charter provides for a Mayor to serve as the Executive Head of the
municipality, for a four (4) year term.
   This Charter provides for an Administrator to serve at the pleasure of
Council.
   This Charter provides for a modern government for a modern municipality.
   This Charter provides for non-partisan elections.
   This Charter provides for the retention of ultimate power of government in
the hands of the people.
   We believe the proposed Charter, which is a joint effort of the bipartisan
Charter Commission, will provide the citizens of Archbold with an efficient and
equitable form of local government. We hope that you will study it carefully,
and respectfully submit it for your approval by a “yes” vote on Tuesday,
November 5, 1996.
 
MEMBERS OF THE ARCHBOLD CHARTER COMMISSION
Gene Baus         Theodore Lovejoy             Paul Rupp
William Beck      William Lovejoy--Chairperson Lonnie Short
Grant Bernath     Judith McCormick             Doug Vajen
Charles Dominique Stephen Rettig               Eugene Winfield
John Grieser      Linda Ross                   Fred Witte
 
CHARTER TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section
Preamble
Article I
Name, Boundaries and Function of Government
   
1.01   Name
   
1.02   Boundaries
   
1.03   Form of government
Article II
Incorporation and Powers
   
2.01   Incorporation
   
2.02   Powers
   
2.03   Manner of exercising powers
   
2.04   Construction
Article III
Council
   
3.01   Composition and terms
   
3.02   Quorum
   
3.03   Organization
   
3.04   President of Council
   
3.05   Powers and duties
   
3.06   Removal
   
3.07   Vacancies
   
3.08   Qualifications
   
3.09   Rules and journal
   
3.10   Clerk of Council
Article IV
Mayor
   
4.01   Election and term of office
   
4.02   Powers and duties
   
4.03   Qualifications
   
4.04   Removal
   
4.05   Veto
   
4.06   Vacancies
Article V
Administrator
   
5.01   Appointment
   
5.02   Acting Administrator
   
5.03   Compensation
   
5.04   Responsibilities
   
5.05   Personnel
Article VI
Assistant Administrator
   
6.01   Appointment
   
6.02   Responsibilities
   
6.03   Compensation
Article VII
Director of Finance
   
7.01   Appointment
   
7.02   Acting Director of Finance
   
7.03   Responsibilities
   
7.04   Compensation
Article VIII
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
8.01   Procedures
Article IX
Administrative Departments
   
9.01   Creation of Departments
   
9.02   Police protection
   
9.03   Fire protection
   
9.04   Department heads
   
9.05   Finance Department
   
9.06   Law Department
   
9.07   Municipal Services Departments
   
9.08   Administrative Code
Article X
Boards and Commissions
   
10.01   Council power to create
   
10.02   Parks and Recreation Board
   
10.03   Planning Commission
   
10.04   Tree Board
   
10.05   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
10.06   Economic Development Board
   
10.07   Open meetings of boards and commissions
Article XI
Finance
   
11.01   General
   
11.02   Limitation on tax rate
   
11.03   Limitation of debt
   
11.04   Payment in lieu of taxes
   
11.05   Contracting procedures
Article XII
Nominations, Elections and Salaries
   
12.01   Elections
   
12.02   Recall
   
12.03   Initiative and referendum
   
12.04   Municipal elections
   
12.05   Conduct of elections
   
12.06   Salary of elected officials
Article XIII
General Provisions
   
13.01   Oath of office
   
13.02   Conflict of interest
   
13.03   Amendment of the Charter
   
13.04   Saving clause
   
13.05   Disposal of property
Article XIV
Transitional Provisions
   
14.01   Succession
   
14.02   Affect of Charter on existing laws and rights
   
14.03   Effective date of Charter
   
14.04   Transition provision
   
14.05   Continuation of present officials
   
14.06   Continuance of present employees
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of the Village of Archbold, in the County of Fulton and the
State of Ohio, grateful to the almighty God for the freedoms that we enjoy,
working together for the common good of each other, and in order to secure for
ourselves, and to extend to future generations the benefits of municipal home
rule and to exercise all of the powers of local self-government under the
Constitution and the laws of the State of Ohio, do hereby adopt this Charter
for our Community.
Editor's note:
   This Charter was adopted by the voters at an election on November 5, 1996,
and took effect on January 1, 1997.
ARTICLE I
NAMES, BOUNDARIES AND FUNCTION OF GOVERNMENT
SECTION 1.01 NAME.
   The Municipality now existing in the County of Fulton, State of Ohio, and
known as the Village of Archbold, shall continue to be a body politic and
corporate. When the Municipality shall, under the Constitution and the laws of
the State of Ohio, become a City, it shall be known as the City of Archbold.
The provisions of this Charter shall apply whether this Municipality is a
Village, or a City.
SECTION 1.02 BOUNDARIES.
   The Municipality of Archbold shall have the same boundaries as now exist,
but with the power and authority to change its boundaries and annex other
territory contiguous thereto in the manner authorized by the laws of Ohio.
SECTION 1.03 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in this Charter shall be known as a Council,
Mayor-Administrator cooperative form of government. The powers and functions of
the Municipal Government shall be distributed among the Municipality, its
citizens, and the various offices, bodies, boards and commissions as provided
in the Charter.
ARTICLE II
INCORPORATION AND POWERS
SECTION 2.01 INCORPORATION.
   The present Municipality, as its limits are now or may hereafter be
established, shall be and continue to be a municipal corporation of the State
of Ohio in perpetuity.
SECTION 2.02 POWERS.
   The Municipality shall have all the powers, general or special, governmental
or proprietary, that may now or hereafter lawfully be possessed or exercised by
municipal corporations under the Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio.
SECTION 2.03 MANNER OF EXERCISING POWERS.
   All such powers shall be exercised in the manner prescribed in this Charter,
or if not prescribed herein, in such a manner as shall be provided by ordinance
of Council or if Council has not so provided, then such powers shall be
exercised in the manner provided by the general laws of the State of Ohio until
the Council shall provide a different manner of exercising such powers.
SECTION 2.04 CONSTRUCTION.
   The powers of the Municipality under this Charter shall be construed
liberally in favor of the Municipality, and specific mention of particular
powers in the Charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general
power stated in the Article. As used in this Charter, unless the context
otherwise requires, the singular includes the plural; and the plural includes
the singular; words of one gender include the other gender; words in the
present tense include the future; and the term “general laws” includes the
Constitution and Statutes of the State of Ohio.
ARTICLE III
COUNCIL
SECTION 3.01 COMPOSITION AND TERMS.
   The Council shall consist of six (6) members, elected at large and on a
nonpartisan ballot for a term of four years beginning on the first day of
January next following their election. Three members of the Council shall be
elected at the regular Municipal election in the year 1997 and every fourth
year thereafter, and three members of the Council shall be elected at the
regular Municipal election in the year 1999 and every fourth year thereafter.
SECTION 3.02 QUORUM.
   A quorum for Council and for any of its committees and any board established
by this Charter shall consist of a majority of the members of that body. The
term “by majority vote” shall mean a majority of the quorum present.
SECTION 3.03 ORGANIZATION.
   In January of each year, Council shall organize and elect one of its members
to serve as President of Council who shall preside at meetings in the absence
of the Mayor.
SECTION 3.04 PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   The President of Council shall act as presiding officer of the Council in
the absence or incapacity of the Mayor and during such absence or incapacity,
shall exercise all the powers and duties granted the Mayor by the Charter.
While presiding over special or regular meetings of Council the President of
Council may vote upon all matters coming before the Council, but in no event
shall the President of Council, in such person's dual capacity as Council
member and presiding officer of Council, cast more than one vote on any action.
In the event that the office of Mayor shall become vacant, the President of
Council shall become Mayor for the unexpired term, and Council shall elect a
successor from among the membership of Council to the office of President of
Council for that unexpired term.
SECTION 3.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Except as provided in this Charter or as expressly limited by this Charter
and the Constitution of the State of Ohio, all legislative powers of this
Municipality shall be vested in the Council. Without limitations of the general
powers herein before stated, Council shall:
   (A)   Originate, introduce and pass ordinances and adopt resolutions.
   (B)   Fix the number and salary ranges of all officers and employees of the
Municipality whether elected or appointed.
   (C)   Require and fix bond for the faithful discharge of the duties of
office by officers and employees of the Municipality. The premium of any bond
required by the Council shall be ordered by the Council to be paid by the
Municipality.
   (D)   Adopt an annual appropriation ordinance based upon the annual budget
in the manner set forth in the general laws of Ohio.
   (E)   The Mayor or Council each may authorize from time to time audits of
the financial records of the municipality, in addition to financial audits
conducted by the State under the general laws of Ohio. The reports of all
examinations and audits will be made available to the Mayor and all members of
Council.
   (F)   Have the power to make investigations into the affairs of the
Municipality and the conduct of any Municipal Department, office or agency, and
for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony and
require production of evidence.
   (G)   Have the power to levy taxes and incur debts subject to the
limitations imposed thereon by the Charter.
   (H)   Have the power to adopt and to provide for the enforcement of local
Police, Fire and Rescue, Sanitary and other similar regulations as are not in
conflict with general laws.
   (I)   Have the power to provide for the exercise of all powers of local
self-government granted to the Municipality by the Constitution of the State of
Ohio in a manner consistent with this Charter or the Constitution of the State
of Ohio.
   (J)   Exercise all other powers granted to the Council by this Charter and
by the Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio.
SECTION 3.06 REMOVAL.
   The Mayor and Council shall be the sole judges of the qualifications of the
members of Council. By two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Council and the Mayor
inclusive, the Council and the Mayor may expel or remove any member of Council
for failure to meet or maintain qualification of office, for violation of this
person's oath of office, or conviction of a felony or other crime involving
moral turpitude, or for persistent failure to abide by the rules of Council.
Any such action taken by the Council and Mayor shall be of immediate effect and
shall not be subject to Mayoral veto. Charges may be brought against a member
of Council by the Mayor and one Council member or by any two members of Council
who notify the accused member in writing of the charge against that member. The
Mayor and Council shall consider the charge at a public meeting which shall
occur not less than fifteen days after written notice is delivered to the
accused member of the charges. If the accused member cannot be located after
reasonable effort, written notice of the charges and the date, time and
location of the public meeting to be held by the Mayor and Council to consider
the charges shall be published once each week for two consecutive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality. The meeting shall be held
not earlier than seven days after the date of the last publication. The accused
member may be represented by an attorney and shall have the opportunity to be
heard, present evidence, and examine under oath any witnesses. The accused
member shall not vote on any matters relating to the charges or the removal of
that member.
SECTION 3.07 VACANCIES.
   When a seat of Council becomes vacant, the vacancy shall be filled with a
qualified person for the unexpired term by a majority vote of the remaining
members of Council. If that vacancy is not so filled within thirty days, the
Mayor shall fill it by appointment; such appointment by the Mayor shall not
then require approval by Council.
SECTION 3.08 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Each Council member shall have been a continuous resident and qualified
elector of the Municipality for at least two years immediately prior to
election and shall continue to be a resident and qualified elector of the
Municipality throughout the term of office.
   Except as provided by or under this Charter, members of Council shall not
hold any other compensated office or position of employment with the
Municipality, nor shall they hold any other compensated elected public office,
including School Board; provided that Council members shall not be prohibited
from holding an elected or appointed political party position. A member of
Council shall forfeit his or her office if he or she shall be absent for four
(4) consecutive regular meetings, except where Council has excused the absence.
   Any member of Council who shall cease to possess, or who shall violate, any
of the qualifications herein enumerated may be removed from such office, but
failure to maintain said qualifications shall not render void or ineffective
any actions of Council in which such member participated.
SECTION 3.09 RULES AND JOURNAL.
   The Council shall adopt its own rules, regulations or by-laws insofar as
they are not set forth in the Charter, and shall keep a journal of all of its
proceedings. The journal shall be open for public inspection during the
Municipal Building's regular office hours. All other legislative actions and
financial reports will also be made available for public inspection as
specified by laws governing such within the State of Ohio.
SECTION 3.10 CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   The Clerk of Council shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of Council by two- thirds (2/3) of its membership. The Clerk of Council
shall attend meetings of Council and keep a record of its proceedings, and of
all rules, bylaws, resolutions and ordinances passed or adopted, which record
shall be subject to the inspection of all persons interested. The Clerk may
perform such other duties as may be assigned by this Charter or by ordinance.
The Clerk of Council shall receive a salary for services, as established by
ordinance.
ARTICLE IV
MAYOR
SECTION 4.01 ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE.
   The individual elected to the office of Mayor under the general statutory
plan of government for villages at the November, 1995 regular Municipal
election shall continue to serve as Mayor under this Charter through December
31, 1999.
   The Mayor shall be a qualified elector of the Municipality and shall be
elected by the voters of the Municipality at municipal elections beginning
1999, and every fourth year thereafter, for a term of four years. This term
shall commence on the first day of January following each election.
SECTION 4.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Executive Powers: The Mayor is the Chief Executive of the
Municipality, and shall:
      (1)   Supervise the administration of the Municipality's affairs and all
departments and divisions thereof, except Council;
      (2)   Exercise control over the affairs of the Police, Fire and Law
departments;
      (3)   Be the chief conservator of the peace within the Municipality and
shall cause all laws and ordinances to be enforced therein;
      (4)   Recommend to Council such ordinances, resolutions, or other
measures as are deemed necessary or expedient for the welfare of the
Municipality and shall keep Council advised of the condition and future of the
Municipality;
      (5)   Act as the head of the Municipal government for all official
ceremonial purposes, and shall have authority to perform marriages and to act
as the executive head of the government for purposes of military law and as
designated by the Governor;
      (6)   Shall sign on behalf of the Municipality, all contracts between the
Municipality and the Fire Chief, the Police Chief, the Director of Law or the
Administrator contemplated or authorized by Section
5.05 hereof;
      (7)   Perform such other duties as are conferred or required by this
Charter or by any ordinance or by any ordinance or resolution of the Council or
by the laws of the State of Ohio.
   (B)   Legislative Powers: The Mayor shall preside at and attend all meetings
of Council, but shall not be considered a member of Council. The Mayor shall
have no vote in the proceedings of Council, except in case of a tie vote or
such other times when a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of Council and the Mayor
inclusive is required thereunder. The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of
all committees created by Council and shall, at the annual organizational
meeting of Council, submit recommendations for Council members to serve on
committees of Council.
SECTION 4.03 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Mayor shall have been a continuous resident and qualified elector of the
Municipality for at least two years immediately prior to election and shall
continue to be a resident and qualified elector of the Municipality throughout
the term of office.
   Except as provided by or under this Charter, the Mayor may not hold any
other compensated office or position of employment with the Municipality, nor
shall the Mayor hold any other compensated elected office, including School
Board; provided that the Mayor shall not be prohibited from holding an elected
or appointed political party position. The Mayor shall forfeit the office of
Mayor in the event of unexcused absences for four (4) consecutive regular
meetings of Council, except where Council has excused the absence.
   Should the Mayor cease to possess or violate any of the qualifications
herein enumerated, he or she shall forfeit the office of Mayor. But failure to
maintain said qualifications shall not render void or ineffective any actions
of Council in which they participated.
SECTION 4.04 REMOVAL.
   The Mayor will remain in office unless status or position changes whereby
the Mayor no longer meets the qualifications of the office as enumerated in
Section
4.03 hereof, whereupon he or she shall resign from the office of Mayor.
   Council may by a vote of three-fourths (3/4) of its membership remove the
Mayor for failure to meet or maintain the qualifications of office, for
violations of the Mayor's oath of office, or conviction of a felony or other
crime involving moral turpitude.
   Charges may be brought by any two members of Council who shall notify the
Mayor in writing of such charge. Council shall consider the charges at a public
meeting which shall occur not less than fifteen days after written notice is
delivered to the Mayor of the charges. If the Mayor cannot be located after
reasonable effort, written notice of the charges and the date, time and
location of the public meeting of Council to consider the charge shall be
published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality.
Notification shall include the date of the meeting when Council shall consider
the charges. The meeting shall be held not earlier than seven days after the
date of the last publication of the notice of the meeting. The Mayor may be
represented by an attorney and shall have the opportunity to be heard, present
evidence, and examine under oath witnesses. The Mayor shall not vote on any
matters dealing with the charges or removal of the Mayor.
SECTION 4.05 VETO.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, each ordinance or resolution
passed by the Council shall be signed by the President of Council or other
presiding officer, attested by the Clerk and presented to the Mayor by the
Clerk of Council, or by the Administrator in the Clerk's absence, within five
(5) days after its passage for the Mayor's approval or veto. The Mayor's veto
shall be addressed to the entire ordinance or resolution. If the Mayor shall
disapprove of the ordinance or resolution described above, it shall be marked
“vetoed” or “disapproved” and said ordinance or resolution shall be returned
with the reason for disapproval stated in writing to the Clerk of Council or in
the Clerk of Council's absence to the Administrator, within ten (10) days after
the presentation of said ordinance or resolution to the Mayor. If the Mayor
shall fail to return an ordinance or resolution to the Clerk of Council as
being either approved or disapproved (vetoed) within ten (10) days after it is
presented to the Mayor by the Clerk of Council or the Administrator, as
applicable, such ordinance or resolution shall take effect without the Mayor's
approval.
   Council may reconsider any ordinance or resolution disapproved or vetoed by
the Mayor at any meeting of the Council held within sixty (60) days after it is
returned to the Clerk of Council as disapproved (vetoed) by the Mayor, and if
such ordinance or resolution, upon reconsideration, is approved by a vote of
not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the members of Council, it shall take effect
as either an emergency or nonemergency measure, as may be appropriate.
SECTION 4.06 VACANCIES.
   In the event that the office of Mayor shall become vacant, the President of
Council shall become Mayor for the unexpired term, and Council shall elect a
successor from among the membership of Council to the office of President of
Council for that unexpired term.
ARTICLE V
ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION 5.01 APPOINTMENT.
   The Administrator shall be appointed in accordance with Section
5.05 hereof. The Administrator need not be a resident of the Municipality or
the State at the time of appointment, but shall within six (6) months after
appointment reside within the Municipality unless such residency requirement is
temporarily waived by Council.
SECTION 5.02 ACTING ADMINISTRATOR.
   In the event of a temporary absence, the Assistant Administrator will assume
the duties of the Administrator until such time an Acting Administrator can be
appointed. The Mayor may appoint with two- thirds (2/3) Council approval, a
qualified administrative officer from the Municipality or other person suitably
qualified to exercise powers and duties of the Administrator during temporary
absence, disability or suspension or when a vacancy occurs.
SECTION 5.03 COMPENSATION.
   Council shall fix the salary of the Administrator.
SECTION 5.04 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Administrator shall be responsible to the Mayor and Council for the
Administration of all municipal affairs placed in the Administrator's charge by
the Charter and Council. The responsibilities of the Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (A)   The Administrator shall direct and supervise the administration of
Water, Wastewater, Street, Cemetery, Zoning, Finance and Collection, including
public buildings and places, except as otherwise provided by this Charter.
   (B)   The Administrator shall attend Council meetings and shall have the
right to take part in discussion, but may not vote.
   (C)   Except as provided in Section
5.05 hereof, the Administrator shall formulate and arrange contracts,
franchises and agreements, and sign all contracts, bonds and notes on behalf of
the Municipality, provided proper Council approval has been given. The
Administrator shall be the purchasing agent for all Municipal Departments,
Offices, Divisions, Boards, and Commissions, and shall make contracts, purchase
supplies and materials and provide labor for any work that relates to the
Administrator's area of responsibility.
   (D)   The Administrator shall work with the Mayor, Council, Boards, and
Commissions to assist in the long and short term planning needs of the
community.
   (E)   The Administrator shall assist in the preparatory, operational and
special budgets which give guidance to the Mayor, Council and organizational
staff. The Administrator shall prepare and submit the annual budget, capital
programs, and appropriation ordinance to the Mayor and Council.
   (F)   The Administrator shall develop personnel to assure that they are
trained to perform duties assigned them. The Administrator will require that
safety rules and practices are enforced to ensure that the personal well being
of the employee is protected.
   (H)   The Administrator shall make reports as Council and the Mayor may
require concerning the operations of Municipal Departments, Offices and
Agencies.
   (J)   The Administrator shall perform such other duties as are specified in
the Charter, by the Mayor, or by ordinances, resolutions, rules or regulations
promulgated from time to time by Council.
SECTION 5.05 PERSONNEL.
   The Administrator shall appoint, supervise, promote, discharge and
discipline all employees of the Municipality except that:
   (A)   The Mayor shall supervise and discipline the Fire Chief and the Chief
of Police and may, with the approval of Council by a vote of two-thirds (2/3)
of its members, discharge the Director of Law, the Fire Chief and the Chief of
Police. The Mayor shall appoint the Director of Law, Fire Chief and the Chief
of Police; each such appointment shall be for a term of one year and shall be
subject to the approval of Council by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of its
members. Reappointments of the Director of Law, the Fire Chief and Chief of
Police will be made by the Mayor and approved by Council at the organizational
meeting each year in January. In the event that no appointment is made by the
Mayor and approved by Council prior to the expiration of the term of the then-
current Director of Law, Fire Chief or Chief of Police, as the case may be, the
then-current Director of Law, Fire Chief or Chief of Police shall remain duly
appointed and responsible for the performance of their duties until the Mayor
and Council shall duly appoint a successor. If the then-current Director of
Law, Fire Chief or Chief of Police shall be unwilling to so act, the Mayor
shall appoint an individual to act as interim Director of Law, Fire Chief or
Chief of Police, as the case may be, until the Mayor and Council shall duly
appoint a successor.
   Notwithstanding any provision of Section
5.05(A) to the contrary, the term for which the Director of Law, the Fire Chief
or the Chief of Police may be appointed may be varied pursuant to the terms of
an employment contract between the Municipality and the Director of Law, the
Fire Chief or the Chief of Police, as the case may be, provided that each such
contract shall be approved by Council by a vote of three-fourths (3/4) of its
members.
   (B)   The Administrator shall appoint, supervise, discharge and discipline
all Department Heads and the Assistant Administrator, provided that any such
appointments shall be subject to the approval of Council by a vote of two-
thirds (2/3) of its members.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint, supervise, discharge and discipline the
Administrator, provided that any such appointment shall be subject to the
approval of Council by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of its members and provided
further, that the Administrator may be terminated or suspended from office only
upon a two-thirds (2/3) vote of Council and the Mayor. The Administrator shall
serve pursuant to the terms of an employment contract between the Municipality
and the Administrator, provided that any such contract entered into between the
Municipality and an Administrator on or after January 1, 1997 shall be subject
to the approval of Council by two-thirds (2/3) of its members.
   The authority of the Administrator to supervise, promote, discharge and
discipline employees shall be subject at all time to the provisions of this
Charter and any applicable ordinances, resolutions, rules or regulations
promulgated from time to time by or under authority of Council.
ARTICLE VI
ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION 6.01 APPOINTMENT.
   An Assistant Administrator may be appointed pursuant to the provisions of
Section
5.05 hereof. The Assistant Administrator need not be a resident of the
Municipality or the State at the time of appointment, but within six (6) months
after appointment, shall reside within the Municipality unless such residency
requirement is temporarily waived by Council.
SECTION 6.02 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Assistant Administrator shall be responsible to the Administrator for
the administration of all Municipal affairs placed in his or her charge by the
Administrator, the Charter, or the Mayor and Council. During a temporary
absence of the Administrator, the Assistant Administrator will serve in the
capacity of Administrator until such time as Council and Mayor appoint an
Acting Administrator.
SECTION 6.03 COMPENSATION.
   Council shall fix the salary of the Assistant Administrator.
ARTICLE VII
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
SECTION 7.01 APPOINTMENT.
   A Director of Finance shall be appointed as provided in Section
5.05 hereof. The Director of Finance need not be a resident of the Municipality
or the State at the time of appointment, but within six (6) months after
appointment, shall reside within the Municipality unless such residency
requirement is temporarily waived by Council.
SECTION 7.02 ACTING DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
   The Administrator may appoint with the advice of the Mayor and consent of
Council by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of its members a qualified administrative
officer of the Municipality or other person suitably qualified to exercise the
powers and duties of the Director of Finance during this person's temporary
absence, disability or suspension or when a vacancy occurs.
SECTION 7.03 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Director of Finance shall be responsible to the Administrator for the
administration of all Municipal financial affairs placed in this person's
charge by the Administrator, the Charter, or the Mayor and Council. The
Director of Finance shall perform the duties and functions now or hereafter
given to City Auditors and Treasurers under the general laws of Ohio to the
extent those laws are not in conflict with this Charter. The powers and duties
of the Director of Finance shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   The Director of Finance may attend meetings of Council, and shall have
the right to take part in discussion, but may not vote.
   (B)   The Director of Finance shall keep the financial records of the
Municipality, establish the accounting system, financial records and reports
used by the offices, departments, boards and commissions of the Municipality,
and be responsible for clerical work in connection with the operation and
management of any public utility or public works operation by the Municipality.
   (C)   The Director of Finance shall perform all services and discharge all
duties and be subject to all obligations required of municipal auditors and
municipal treasurers by the general laws of the State. The Director of Finance
shall give a corporate surety bond for the performance of duties as Director of
Finance in such sum as may be required by the Mayor and Council.
   (D)   All fees of any kind or nature whatsoever collected by the Director of
Finance, and all compensation other than salary received by the Director of
Finance in any manner whatsoever growing out of or connected with this position
as Director of Finance of the Municipality shall be paid into the Treasury of
the Municipality.
   (E)   The Director of Finance shall assist the Administrator in the
preparation and submission of appropriation measures, estimates, budgets,
capital programs and other financial matters; provide full and complete
information concerning the financial affairs and status of the Municipality as
requested by the Mayor or Council; and provide full and complete information
and assistance concerning the finances of any office, Department, Board or
Commission of the Municipality as requested by the Mayor, Council, or
Administrator.
   (F)   The Director of Finance shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by Council not inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter.
SECTION 7.04 COMPENSATION.
   Council shall fix the salary of the Director of Finance.
ARTICLE VIII
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
SECTION 8.01 PROCEDURES.
   All procedural matters relating to the legislative activities of Council
shall be determined by Council by two-thirds (2/3) vote of its members and,
until such time as Council establishes such a rule or rules, the procedure for
enactment of legislation shall be as provided by the general laws of the State
of Ohio applicable to Municipalities which have not adopted a Charter or a plan
of government under Chapter 705 of the Revised Code. Procedural matters subject
to rule by Council shall include, but not be limited to, the definition and
coverage of ordinances, resolutions, and motions; the style of such
legislation; the number of readings, if any, required; the effective date of
legislation; the publication required of legislation; the authentication,
recording, and amendment of legislation; the referral of certain matters to
other bodies prior to enactment of legislation, e.g., referral of zoning
matters to the Planning Commission; public hearings on certain matters;
adoption of technical codes; the codification of legislation; and open meetings
and the holding of executive sessions.
ARTICLE IX
ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
SECTION 9.01 CREATION OF DEPARTMENTS.
   For the purpose of implementing the functions of the Municipality, the
following departments are hereby established: Finance, Fire, Police, Street,
Water, Wastewater, Parks/Recreation, Planning/Zoning, Engineering, and Law. The
work of the departments of the Municipality shall be distributed among such
divisions and bureaus as provided in this Charter and as provided by the Mayor
and Council.
   In addition to the administrative offices and departments specifically
established and created by this Charter, the administrative offices,
departments, divisions, bureaus, and other sub-units existing under the law of
Ohio and ordinances and resolutions of the Municipality on the effective date
of this Charter shall continue, with their existing powers and duties, until
they are abolished, merged, combined or otherwise altered or reorganized by
Council.
SECTION 9.02 POLICE PROTECTION.
   The Mayor and Council shall provide for police protection adequate to the
needs of the Municipality to be administered by the Mayor in accordance with
the directives of Council and, in areas where the Mayor and Council have not
acted, in accordance with general laws of Ohio. The Mayor and Council may
provide for auxiliary police.
   The Chief of Police will be the managing authority of the Police Department.
The Mayor and Council shall provide for police protection adequate to the needs
of the Municipality. The Administrator will be responsible for the budget and
appropriations of the Police Department as authorized by this Charter.
SECTION 9.03 FIRE PROTECTION.
   The Mayor and Council shall provide for fire protection adequate to needs of
the Municipality to be administered by the Mayor in accordance with the
directives of Council and, in areas where the Mayor and Council have not acted,
in accordance with general laws of Ohio.
   The Fire Chief will be the managing authority of the Fire Department. The
Mayor and Council shall provide for fire protection adequate to the needs of
the Municipality. The Administrator will be responsible for the budget and
appropriations of the Fire Department as authorized by this Charter.
SECTION 9.04 DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   Each Municipal department shall be headed by a full or part-time department
head. All departments, except Police, Fire, and Law shall be headed by the
Administrator unless provided otherwise by the Mayor and Council.
SECTION 9.05 FINANCE DEPARTMENT.
   The Administrator will head the Department of Finance with the
responsibility for daily operations placed with the Director of Finance.
SECTION 9.06 LAW DEPARTMENT.
   The Law Director shall be head of the Department of Law. The Law Director
must be admitted to the practice of law in the State of Ohio. The Law Director
shall be legal advisor, attorney and counsel for the Municipality, and for all
offices, departments, divisions, boards, commissions and bodies of the
Municipality in connection with Municipal affairs; and subject to the direction
of the Mayor and Council. The Law Director shall represent the Municipality in
all proceedings in Court or before any administrative body. However, upon
mutual and majority consent of the Mayor, Council, and Law Director,
specialized legal matters may be handled by different legal counsel. The Law
Director shall perform other duties consistent with that office, or as may be
required by Charter, ordinance or resolution of the Council, or by the laws of
the State of Ohio.
SECTION 9.07 MUNICIPAL SERVICES DEPARTMENTS.
   Municipal Services Departments shall consist of but not be limited to the
Street, Water, Wastewater, Parks/Recreation, Planning/Zoning and Engineering
Departments. The managing authority of these Departments will be the
Administrator, who will appoint Municipal Department Superintendents consistent
with this Charter.
SECTION 9.08 ADMINISTRATIVE CODE.
   Subject to the provisions of this Charter, and after consultation with the
Administrator, Council shall adopt by ordinance an administrative code which
shall provide in detail the organization of the municipal government, define
the powers and duties of each organizational unit, and determine the
administrative procedures to be followed. Council may delegate by ordinance to
the Administrator and the Administrator to the Department Heads, power to
develop procedures and implement management practices, consistent with the
administrative code. Amendments to and revisions of the administrative code
shall be made by the Council only after consultation with the Administrator.
Where the administrative code is silent, the officers and employees of the
municipality shall have and may exercise all powers and duties provided for
similar officers and employees by State law.
ARTICLE X
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
SECTION 10.01 COUNCIL POWER TO CREATE.
   In addition to the boards, commissions, agencies and authorities created by
this Charter or amendments thereto, Council shall have authority to continue
all other bodies as established and make alterations in the functions of those
bodies, including terminating existing bodies and creating new bodies.
SECTION 10.02 PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   Composition and Terms. There shall be a Parks and Recreation Board
which will consist of five members, four members will be appointed by the Mayor
subject to approval by Council. One member will be a Council member who will be
appointed annually by the Mayor subject to approval of Council. Members of the
Park Board serving at the effective date of this Charter shall continue to
serve as members of the Park and Recreation Board created by this Charter. The
Mayor with Council concurrence will appoint the fifth member of this Board from
Council membership. Thereafter, members of the Park and Recreation Board shall
be appointed to serve for terms of four (4) years, provided that the initial
appointments under this Charter may be for lesser terms of office and in a
manner to assure that one member of the Board be appointed each year.
   (B)   Powers, Duties, and Functions. The Parks and Recreation Board shall
promote the development, maintenance, and operation of the parks, playground
and recreational facilities and programs of the Municipality; render assistance
to and cooperate with organized groups conducting recreation programs,
stimulate interest in the care and preservation of public park sites; make
recommendations to the Mayor and Council concerning the general state of the
municipality's recreation and parks programs and facilities; and perform such
other duties and functions as the Mayor and Council shall require by ordinance;
provided, however, that the power to acquire, purchase, and accept as donations
or to sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of real property for parks and
recreation purposes shall be vested in the Mayor and Council.
   (C)   Chairperson and Secretary. At the first meeting of the Parks and
Recreation Board each year, the members of said Board shall elect a chairperson
from its membership by a majority vote of its members. The chairperson so
elected shall serve at the pleasure of the Board and until a successor is
elected. The Clerk of Council shall serve as the recording secretary for the
Parks and Recreation Board.
   (D)   Meetings and Organization. A majority of the members of the Parks and
Recreation Board shall constitute a quorum (3 of the 5 members shall be
considered a majority), and a majority vote of the members shall be necessary
to take action and for the passage of motions. Rules providing for the number
and manner of calling meetings and special meetings, and providing for the
conduct of meetings may be adopted by a majority vote of Board members.
SECTION 10.03 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   There shall be a Planning Board which will consist of five (5) members.
Three of the five members will serve three (3) year terms. Appointments will be
made by the Mayor with the approval of Council. The Mayor and one (1) member of
Council appointed annually by the Mayor with concurrence of Council will
complete the Board. Rules providing for the number and manner of calling
meetings, may be adopted by the Commission.
SECTION 10.04 TREE BOARD.
   There shall be a Tree Board which will consist of five (5) members, citizens
and residents of the Municipality with one member who is a Council member and
Chairperson of the Building and Grounds Committee. The Mayor, Administrator,
and Street Superintendent will serve as ex-officio members of this Board.
Appointments will be made by the Mayor with the approval of Council. The term
shall be for an indefinite period of time. Rules providing for the number and
manner of calling meetings, may be adopted by the Tree Board.
SECTION 10.05 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   There shall be a Board of Zoning Appeals which will consist of five (5)
members serving five year terms. The Planning Director will serve as secretary
and as an ex-officio member of the Board. Appointments will be made by the
Mayor with the approval of Council. Rules providing for the number and manner
of calling meetings, may be adopted by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
SECTION 10.06 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT BOARD.
   There shall be an Economic Development Board which will consist of the
Mayor, the President of Council, and seven (7) members to serve for an
indefinite period of time. Appointments will be made by the Mayor with the
approval of Council. The Administrator will serve as an ex-officio member.
Rules providing for the number and manner of calling meetings, may be adopted
by the Board.
SECTION 10.07 OPEN MEETINGS OF BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   Procedures and requirements for open meetings and executive sessions of
Municipal Boards and Commissions shall be in accordance with the general laws
of the State of Ohio until otherwise established by a rule or rules of Council
pursuant to Section
8.01 hereof.
ARTICLE XI
FINANCE
SECTION 11.01 GENERAL.
   The laws of the State of Ohio relating generally to budgets, appropriations,
debts, bonds, assessments, deposits and investment of funds and other fiscal
matter of the Municipality shall be applicable except as otherwise provided by
this Charter or by the Mayor and Council.
SECTION 11.02 LIMITATION ON TAX RATE.
   The power of Mayor and Council to levy taxes shall be subject to the
limitation now or hereafter provided by the Constitution and general laws of
the State of Ohio, and nothing contained in the Charter shall be construed as
authorizing the levy of any taxes in excess of such limitations without a vote
of the people; provided that this Charter shall not operate as a limitation
upon the power of Mayor and Council to levy taxes upon such other subjects and
for such other purposes as may be lawful under the Constitution and laws of the
State of Ohio, nor shall the authority of the Mayor and Council to submit
additional levies to a vote of the people under the authority of the
Constitution or laws of the State of Ohio be deemed impaired or abridged by
reason of any provision of this Charter.
SECTION 11.03 LIMITATION OF DEBT.
   The Municipality shall not incur debt in excess of the limitations imposed
by the Constitution and the laws of the State of Ohio.
SECTION 11.04 PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES.
   The Mayor and Council may establish a percentage of Utility Department
receipts or a percentage of one or more of the individual utility receipts
which shall be deposited in the General Fund Account. Such payment shall be in
lieu of taxes and may vary in percentage charged to the particular utility.
Such charges shall be compensation for police, fire, and other related
Municipal services provided to the utility.
SECTION 11.05 CONTRACTING PROCEDURES.
   Unless provided otherwise by the Council, the Administrator shall act as the
purchasing agent and contracting officer for the Municipality with authority to
award and execute contracts as provided by Council. Unless Council provides
otherwise, contracting procedures shall be in accordance with the general laws
of the State of Ohio. Council may establish contracting procedures which may
provide for, but not be limited to, which contracts must be let by competitive
bidding, the amount of advertising required, when bidding may be rejected, and
alterations and modifications in the contract.
ARTICLE XII
NOMINATIONS, ELECTIONS AND SALARIES
SECTION 12.01 ELECTIONS.
   The candidates for any elected office at the regular Municipal election,
equal in number to the places to be filled in that office, who received the
largest number of votes, shall be declared elected.
SECTION 12.02 RECALL.
   Any elected official may be removed from office by a recall election before
the expiration of such term by the qualified voters of the Municipality. The
procedures for such recall election shall be that as provided by Section 705.92
of the Revised Code of Ohio, as of the effective date of this Charter.
SECTION 12.03 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   (A)   Ordinances and resolutions may be proposed by initiative petition and
adopted by election in the manner provided by the Constitution and laws of the
State of Ohio, except:
      (1)   All initiative and referendum petitions shall be filed with the
Clerk of Council, and
      (2)   Ordinances and resolutions initiated by petition shall be submitted
to the electors for approval or rejection at the next general or primary
election occurring subsequent to ninety days after certification of the text of
the proposed ordinance or resolution to the election authorities as established
by the general laws of the State of Ohio.
   (B)   Ordinances and resolutions adopted by Council shall be subject to
referendum in accordance with procedures established by the general laws of the
State of Ohio.
   (C)   Actions required to be taken by ordinance under Section 5, Article
XVIII, of the Ohio Constitution, may be subjected to referendum in the manner
provided by Section 5, Article XVIII, of the Ohio Constitution and subsection
(B) of this section shall not apply.
SECTION 12.04 MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   The regular Municipal election for the election of officials of the
Municipality shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in
November in the odd-numbered years. This shall be known as the regular
Municipal election. The Mayor and Council may, at any time by resolution, order
a special election, the purpose of which shall be set forth in the resolution.
SECTION 12.05 CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS.
   All primary regular and special elections shall be conducted by the
elections officials as established under the laws of Ohio. Such elections shall
be held in conformity with the provisions of this Charter. Where the Charter is
silent, the provisions of the election laws of Ohio shall be followed if
appropriate to the nonpartisan nomination and elections of officers of the
Municipality.
SECTION 12.06 SALARY OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   The salaries of members of Council and the Mayor shall be as set by
ordinance in effect at the time this Charter becomes law. The Mayor and Council
may increase or decrease the salaries of any elected official of the
Municipality by ordinance adopted by a vote of not less than two thirds (2/3)
of the members of Council. Any ordinance changing the salary of any elected
official shall be adopted at least 100 days prior to the next ensuing election.
The compensation of all other officers and employees of the Municipality may be
increased or decreased at any time by ordinance.
ARTICLE XIII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 13.01 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every elected and appointed official of the Municipality shall take and
subscribe an oath or affirmation to uphold the Constitution and laws of the
State of Ohio; to uphold the Charter, ordinances, resolutions and other laws of
the Municipality; and to faithfully discharge the duties and responsibilities
of that office.
SECTION 13.02 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   The Laws of the State of Ohio pertaining to interests of Municipal officials
in contracts and the expenditures of money on behalf of the Municipality shall
apply to the officials of the Municipality.
SECTION 13.03 AMENDMENT TO THE CHARTER.
   Any provision of this Charter may be amended as provided in Article XVIII,
Section 9 of the Ohio Constitution, by submission of a proposed amendment to
the voters of the Municipality and approval by a majority of those voting on
the question of its adoption. Such amendment may be initiated either by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote of Council, or by petition to Council signed by ten percent
of the electors of the Municipality.
SECTION 13.04 SAVING CLAUSE.
   The decision by a court of competent jurisdiction that any part of this
Charter is invalid, shall not invalidate or impair the force of any other part
hereof, except that such other part is wholly dependent for its operation upon
the part declared invalid.
SECTION 13.05 DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY.
   Upon two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Mayor and Council, any personal property
not needed for any Municipal use may be disposed of in such manner as
determined by the Mayor and Council. Real property will be disposed of in such
manner as established by the general laws of the State of Ohio.
ARTICLE XIV
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 14.01 SUCCESSION.
   The Municipality of Archbold under this Charter, is hereby declared to be
the legal successor of the Village of Archbold, under the laws of the State of
Ohio, and as such, it has title to all property, real and personal, owned by
its predecessor, including all moneys on deposit and all taxes in process of
collection together with all accounts receivable and rights of action. The
Municipality is liable for all outstanding orders, contracts and debts of its
predecessor and or any other obligations for which it may be held liable, as
such successor, by any court of competent jurisdiction. All contracts entered
into by the Municipality or for its benefit prior to January 1, 1997, shall
continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 14.02 AFFECT OF CHARTER ON EXISTING LAWS AND RIGHTS.
   The adoption of this Charter shall not affect any preexisting rights of the
Municipality, nor any right or liability or pending suit or prosecution, either
on behalf of or against the Municipality or any officer thereof, nor any
franchise granted by the Municipality, nor pending proceedings for the
authorization of public improvements or the levy of assessments therefore.
Except as a contrary intent appears herein, all acts of the Council of the
Municipality, including ordinances and resolutions in effect at the date this
Charter becomes effective, shall continue in effect until lawfully amended or
repealed.
   No action or proceeding pending against the Municipality or an officer
thereof shall be abated or affected by the adoption of this Charter, but all
such actions or proceedings shall be prosecuted or defended under the laws in
effect at the time of the filing thereof.
SECTION 14.03 EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHARTER.
   This Charter shall be submitted to the electors of the Village of Archbold
at the general election held on November 5, 1996, and if approved shall take
effect on January 1, 1997.
SECTION 14.04 TRANSITION PROVISIONS.
   For the purpose of providing an equitable transition for the provisions of
this Charter, the following provisions shall be observed:
   (1)   The Mayor shall continue to serve the remainder of this term which
ends December 31, 1999.
   (2)   To establish the terms of Council members as four years with four (4)
expiring on December 31, 1997 and two (2) expiring on December 31, 1999, the
term of one of the four Council members (“the transitional Council member”)
shall be the Council member who received the least number of votes in the last
election (1997). The designation of the “transitional Council member” shall be
made at the first meeting after the November 1997 general election and will be
verified by the County Board of Election. The “transitional Council member”
will hold the seat for a two (2) year term ending December 31, 1999. Upon
completion of this term the seat will then become a full four (4) year term
seat, with its election coming in November of 1999, so that thereafter, the
terms of members of Council shall be established such that three Council
members are elected every two years.
   (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall assume the role of Clerk of Council on
December 31, 1996 and a Director of Finance shall be appointed as provided in
this Charter.
SECTION 14.05 CONTINUATION OF PRESENT OFFICIALS.
   All persons, other than those holding statutory elective or appointed office
abolished under this Charter, employed at the time this Charter takes effect,
shall continue in their office or position and in performance of their duties
until provisions shall have been otherwise made in accordance with this Charter
for the performance or discontinuance of the duties of any such office or
position. When such provision shall have been made, the term of any officer
shall expire and the office shall be abolished, and the tenure of the employee
will end.
   The powers which are conferred and the duties which are imposed upon any
officer, body, commission, board, department or division of the Municipality
under the laws of the State of Ohio, or under any Municipal ordinance,
resolution or contract in force at the time of the taking effect of this
Charter shall, if such office, body, commission, board, department or division
is abolished by this Charter, be thereafter exercised and discharged by the
officer, body, commission, board, department or division upon whom are imposed
corresponding functions, powers and duties by this Charter or by any ordinance
or resolution of the Council thereafter enacted.
SECTION 14.06 CONTINUANCE OF PRESENT EMPLOYEES.
   Every employee of the Municipal government on the effective date of this
Charter shall continue in such employment and thereafter shall be subject in
all respects to the provisions of this Charter.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Statutory references
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Archbold Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. Fulton County, Ohio.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the chief of a fire department if the fire
department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no fire department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED. Shall have the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 1.05.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE or  MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. When used in
this code, shall denote the municipality of Archbold irrespective of its
population or legal classification.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation; and SWEAR includes affirm.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of the property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers, or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   R.C., OHIO R.C. or REVISED CODE. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail; and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes any representation of words, letters,
symbols or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating to
signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders; and
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day which constitutes the
last day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on the day, then
the act may be performed on the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (3)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, such priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (4)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (5)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving the
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal Charter provisions.
   (F)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding such construction, or when the subject
matter or context of the law is repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not, except
as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; and
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, such reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(R.C. § 1.55)
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, titles, chapters or sections of this
code and other ordinances of the municipality conflict with or contravene each
other, the provisions bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the
conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be so
construed as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions
of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached, or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the municipality,
this code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the municipality shall remain in full
force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect, and are saved.
§ 10.13 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.14 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.15 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   The following language should be used by the municipality to amend,
add or repeal a chapter, section or division:
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section            of the Municipal Code of
Ordinances is amended to read as follows: . . . .”
      (2)   To add a section: “Section              of the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, reads as follows: . . . .”
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section              of the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: . . . .”
§ 10.16 STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in parenthesis
immediately following a division or section of this code, this indicates that
the text of the division or section reads substantially the same as the
statutory provision. Example: (R.C. § 4511.02)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of a section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
   § 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      Unless otherwise exempted by state law, all public records shall be
promptly prepared and made available for inspection to any person.
   (R.C. § 149.43(B))
   Statutory reference:
      Public records, see R.C. § 149.43
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever, in this municipal code or in any ordinance of the municipality,
any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise
provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or both. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation continues or occurs.
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations, penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE COUNCIL
      
31.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
32.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
33.   INCOME TAX
      
34.   FINANCE
Editor’s note:
   Other procedures not specifically stated in this code or in ordinance form
may be created from time to time. These procedures include, but are not limited
to Charter, employee handbook and police policy procedures.
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Public notice of meetings
Cross-reference:
   Village Council, see Charter
Article III
§ 30.01 PUBLIC NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Public meetings. All meetings of the Village Council shall be public
meetings, except as provided in R.C. § 121.22(G).
   (B)   Public notice of meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings. Notice shall be given of the time, place and date
of all regular meetings of the Council by posting the schedule of regular
meetings on the bulletin board at the regular meeting place of the Village
Council at the Council Chambers, and having a copy available for inspection at
the office of the Clerk.
      (2)   Special meetings. All meetings of this Council which are not
regular meetings are hereby declared to be special meetings and notice shall be
given as follows.
         (a)   To all news media or designated members thereof who file a
written request with the Clerk on or before January 10 of each and every year,
telephone notice shall be given by the Clerk pursuant to and in accordance with
the written request filed by each new media or designated representative
thereof. All written requests shall specify the name, address and all telephone
numbers at which the news media or its designated representative may be found
at any time and shall also contain like information for a designated alternate
representative. The telephone notice shall include, but shall not be limited
to, the time, place, date and purpose of the meeting and shall be given not
less than 24 hours prior to the special meeting. The Clerk shall make a record
upon a journal kept for such purpose of the date and name of the person called
and if a message is left the name of the party taking the message.
         (b)   Notice shall be given to any party requesting notice of meetings
where any specific type of business is to be discussed as hereinafter provided.
      (3)   Emergency special meeting requiring immediate action. The Clerk
shall notify all news media or designated members thereof who have filed a
written request with the Clerk on or before January 10 of each year. The
telephone notice shall be given by the Clerk pursuant to and in accordance with
division (B)(2) above.
   (C)   Public notice concerning specific type of business.
      (1)   Any party may request notice of any meeting of the Council at which
any specific type of business is to be discussed. Provided, however, any and
all requests shall comply with the following:
         (a)   Each request shall be made in writing; and
         (b)   Each request shall be accompanied by a fee of $30 and shall be
accompanied by not less than 12 stamped, self-addressed envelopes. It shall be
the responsibility of each such person requesting notice to provide the Clerk
with the proper postage and, in the event of an increase in the postal rates,
the person requesting notice shall be solely and completely responsible for
supplying the Clerk with additional postage. Provided, however, the fee shall
entitle the person to notice for a period not to exceed 12 months from the date
of the application.
      (2)   The Clerk shall immediately establish a written record which shall
include, but shall not be limited to, the names, addresses, telephone numbers,
area of interest and date of application for each party requesting written
notice of all meetings at which a specific type of public business will be
discussed.
         (a)   Regular meetings. The Clerk shall give notice at least five days
before the regular meeting by ordinary U.S. mail utilizing the stamped, self-
addressed envelope provided by each applicant when the particular type of
public business in question is to be discussed.
         (b)   All other meetings. The Clerk shall attempt to notify each such
party interested in the specific type of public business by telephone.
   (D)   Minutes.
      (1)   The Clerk shall prepare and make available to the general public
full and complete minutes of all meetings of the Council, except as provided in
R.C. § 121.22(C), not more than one week after the meeting adjourns.
      (2)   Copies of the minutes shall be made available for inspection by
interested parties at reasonable times and the Clerk shall furnish copies
thereof at the reasonable cost thereof, as provided in R.C. § 149.43.
(Res. 76-19, passed 4-6-1976)
CHAPTER 31: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Law Enforcement Trust Fund
   
31.02   Police Department Clerk
Police Regulations
   
31.15   Authority for establishing guidelines and regulations
Auxiliary Police Unit
   
31.25   Creation
   
31.26   Length of service
   
31.27   Members
   
31.28   Commanding officer; chain of command
   
31.29   Rules and regulations
   
31.30   Uniform expense
   
31.31   Compensation
Fire Department
   
31.45   Firefighter and inspector
   
31.46   Mutual aid and fire protection agreement with Fulton County
   
31.47   Mutual aid and fire protection agreement with Napoleon
Cross-reference:
   Finance, see
Chapter 34
   Personnel regulations, see
Chapter 32
   Police and Fire Departments, see Charter §§
9.02 and
9.03
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 LAW ENFORCEMENT TRUST FUND.
   There is hereby established the Law Enforcement Trust Fund in which will be
deposited sale proceeds of contraband and which funds will be expended for the
following purposes:
   (A)   To pay the cost of protracted or complex investigations or
prosecutions;
   (B)   To provide matching funds to obtain federal grants to aid law
enforcement;
   (C)   To provide reasonable technical training or expertise; and
   (D)   For such other law enforcement purposes Council determines to be
appropriate.
(Ord. 89-60, passed 11-6-1989)
§ 31.02 POLICE DEPARTMENT CLERK.
   The position of Police Department Clerk is hereby established to assist the
Chief of Police and personnel in the operations and office tasks associated
with the Police Department.
(Res. 96-86, passed 12-2-1996)
POLICE REGULATIONS
§ 31.15 AUTHORITY FOR ESTABLISHING GUIDELINES AND REGULATIONS.
   Regulations and guidelines relevant to the operation of the Police
Department shall be instituted based on the Ohio Revised Code, the Village
Charter, the Village Handbook and Police Policy and Procedure.
(Ord. 98-07, passed 1-19-1998)
AUXILIARY POLICE UNIT
§ 31.25 CREATION.
   There is created within the Police Department the Auxiliary Police Unit, the
members of which shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent
of Council.
(Ord. 94-62, passed 8-15-1994)
§ 31.26 LENGTH OF SERVICE.
   Auxiliary police officers shall serve so long as the Mayor may direct or
until a resignation submitted by the members shall be accepted by the Mayor.
(Ord. 94-62, passed 8-15-1994)
§ 31.27 MEMBERS.
   The members of the Auxiliary Police Unit shall be residents of the Archbold
area and may not be under the age of 18 years at the time of their appointment
and subject to such other requirements as provided by the rules and regulations
provided for in §
31.29 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 94-62, passed 8-15-1994)
§ 31.28 COMMANDING OFFICER; CHAIN OF COMMAND.
   The Chief of Police shall be the commanding officer of the Auxiliary Police
Unit and shall have control of the assignment, training, stationing and the
direction of work of the Unit. The Auxiliary Police Unit will have all police
powers, but shall perform only the police duties as assigned by the Chief of
Police and shall act only when in the prescribed uniform or portion of uniform.
The Chief of Police shall prescribe the time and place the uniform or portion
thereof shall be worn. The auxiliary members shall obey the chain of command of
the Police Department and shall take orders from all regularly- appointed
members thereof.
(Ord. 94-62, passed 8-15-1994)
§ 31.29 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Auxiliary Police Unit shall be subject to the same rules and regulations
as the village police officers.
(Ord. 94-62, passed 8-15-1994)
§ 31.30 UNIFORM EXPENSE.
   Members of the Auxiliary Police Unit shall be reimbursed for uniform expense
as per the current village clothing allowance ordinance.
(Ord. 94-62, passed 8-15-1994)
§ 31.31 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   All services performed by auxiliary police officers shall be within
the village limits and compensation shall be as provided by the salary and wage
schedule. Compensation shall be paid only for work authorized by the Mayor and/
or Chief of Police.
   (B)   Each member of the Auxiliary Police Unit shall be reimbursed for
police schooling which is first authorized by Council, provided, the member
satisfactorily completes the schooling.
   (C)   Reimbursement shall be as follows:
      (1)   One-third of the total cost will be paid by the village upon
completion of school;
      (2)   One-third will be paid after completing two years of service to the
village; and
      (3)   The final one-third after three years of service.
(Ord. 94-62, passed 8-15-1994)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.45 FIREFIGHTER AND INSPECTOR.
   The village shall hire a full-time firefighter and inspector for the
Archbold German Township Fire Department and create this position to fulfill
the role as deemed necessary by the Village Council to assist the Fire Chief
and personnel in the operations and tasks associated with the Department.
(Res. 97-09, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 31.46 MUTUAL AID AND FIRE PROTECTION AGREEMENT WITH FULTON COUNTY.
   The execution of a mutual aid and fire protection agreement with the
Community Fire/Rescue Departments of Fulton County according to the terms as
presented to Council is hereby authorized.
(Res. 97-48, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 31.47 MUTUAL AID AND FIRE PROTECTION AGREEMENT WITH NAPOLEON.
   The execution of a mutual aid and fire protection agreement with the City of
Napoleon is hereby authorized.
(Res. 01-07, passed 2-5-2001)
CHAPTER 32: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Compensation
   
32.02   Paid holidays
   
32.03   Sick leave
   
32.04   Vacation
   
32.05   Conversion of sick leave days to vacation days
   
32.06   Overtime
   
32.07   Clothing allowance
   
32.08   Compensation for use of personal motor vehicles
   
32.09   Retirement
   
32.10   Nonsalary remuneration
   
32.11   Alcohol and drug testing policy
   
32.12   Service clubs; payment of membership dues
Police Personnel Policies
   
32.20   Holiday bank
   
32.21   Fourteen-day/80-hour work period
   
32.22   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Compensation amounts for the various village employees and officials
shall be established by ordinance of the Village Council from time to time.
These ordinances are on file in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The Village Council hereby adopts a plan under the Ohio Public
Employees Deferred Compensation Program to allow all eligible employees the
opportunity to join.
(Res. 86-30, passed 6-2-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Public Employees Deferred Compensation Programs, see R.C. §§ 145.71 et seq.
§ 32.02 PAID HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   All regular full-time employees of the village may observe ten paid
holidays during the calendar year, unless the employees are required to be on
regular duty. These ten holidays shall be: New Year’s Day, Good Friday,
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Friday after
Thanksgiving Day, the day before Christmas Day, Christmas Day and a floating
day.
   (B)   When a holiday falls on Saturday or Sunday, the day observed by the
state, nation or by proclamation shall be considered the holiday.
   (C)   Salaried employees who are required to be on duty on any holiday will
be allowed an extra day’s pay at regular time or an additional day of vacation
leave in accordance with the desires of the employee, with approval of the
employee’s supervisor.
   (D)   Full-time employees who are paid on an hourly basis shall receive one
day’s pay at regular time for any holiday listed in division (A) above. In the
event that they are required to work on a holiday, they will receive
compensation pay at a rate of one and one-half times the employee’s regular
hourly rate for each hour worked on that holiday or additional day of vacation
leave in accordance with the desires of the employee, with the approval of the
employee’s supervisor.
   (E)   Floating day: the day allotted for this holiday will be taken when the
timing thereof has the approval of the employee’s supervisor or department
head.
(Ord. 82-5, passed 1-4-1982; Am. Ord. 87-36, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.03 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   All regular full time employees of the village shall be granted sick
leave with pay at the rate of four and six-tenths hours for each completed 80
hours of service.
   (B)   Unused sick leave shall be cumulative without limits.
   (C)   Sick leave may be granted only for absence from duty because of
personal illness, pregnancy, injury, exposure to contagious disease which could
be communicated to other employees, and to illness, injury off the job or death
in the employee’s immediate family. “Immediate family” shall be construed as
being husband, wife, father, mother, sister, brother, son, daughter,
grandfather, grandmother, father-in-law or mother-in-law. A maximum of three
days sick leave will be allowed for death of the employee’s husband, wife,
father, mother, sister, brother, son or daughter and a maximum of one day sick
leave will be allowed for death of the employee’s grandfather, grandmother,
father-in-law or mother-in-law. An employee claiming sick leave may be required
to furnish competent written evidence that he or she was absent as authorized
above.
   (D)   No sick leave benefits of any kind shall be granted after termination
of employment.
   (E)   Employees using earned sick leave shall be considered as working, for
the purpose of accumulating additional sick leave.
   (F)   An employee with ten or more years of service with the village at the
time of retirement may elect to be paid in cash for one-fourth of the value of
his or her accrued, but unused, sick leave credit. The payment shall be based
on the employee’s rate of pay at the time of retirement. Payment for sick leave
on this basis shall be considered to eliminate all sick leave credit accrued by
the employee at that time. The payment shall be made only once to any employee.
The maximum payment which may be made under this section shall be one-fourth of
120 days.
(Ord. 82-5, passed 1-4-1982)
§ 32.04 VACATION.
   (A)   Each regular full-time employee of the village shall be eligible for
paid vacation benefits as follows.
      (1)   Each employee having completed one year of continuous service, but
not more than two years of continuous service, on the anniversary date of his
or her employment shall be granted one week (five working days) vacation with
pay within one year after the anniversary date of employment.
      (2)   Each employee having completed two years of continuous service, but
not more than ten years of continuous service, on the anniversary date of his
or her employment shall be granted two weeks (ten working days) vacation with
pay within one year after his or her anniversary date of employment.
      (3)   Each employee having completed ten years of continuous service, but
not more than 15 years of continuous service, on the anniversary date of his or
her employment shall be granted three weeks (15 working days) vacation with pay
within one year after his or her anniversary date of employment.
      (4)   Each employee having completed 15 years or more of continuous
service on the anniversary date of his or her employment will be granted
annually four weeks (20 working days) vacation with pay within one year after
his or her anniversary date of employment.
   (B)   Vacation time shall not be accumulated and carried over, except that
an employee who has acquired the right to receive four weeks of vacation in one
year may carry over no more than one week of unused vacation into the following
year. The right to use any carried-over vacation shall end if it is not used
within the one year following the year it is acquired. Vacation leave shall not
be taken unless the timing has the approval of the employee’s supervisor or
department head. Employees having completed ten years of service may request a
cash-out of up to five days unused vacation. A formal request from the employee
for a vacation cash-out must be received at least one month prior to the pay
period in the which the employee’s vacation anniversary date falls. Cash-outs
will be paid in the pay period in which the employee’s vacation anniversary
date falls. If a formal request is not made, the practice of forfeiting the
unused vacation time will continue.
   (C)   If a holiday falls during the vacation of an employee, the holiday
will not be considered as one of the days of vacation for leave purposes and
the employee shall be entitled to a compensatory vacation day for each paid
holiday falling within his or her vacation.
   (D)   Vacation pay shall be based on the regular 40 hour weekly pay of the
employee.
(Ord. 82-5, passed 1-4-1982; Am. Ord. 01-25, passed 5-21-2001)
§ 32.05 CONVERSION OF SICK LEAVE DAYS TO VACATION DAYS.
   Each permanent full-time employee having accumulated 120 days of unused sick
leave may elect to convert additional unused sick leave credited to him or her
as follows: for each three days of unused sick leave credit in excess of 120
days, the employee shall be entitled to one day of vacation with pay. No more
than five days vacation may be taken in any one calendar year earned by sick
leave conversion. All such conversions must be authorized by special permission
of the Village Administrator.
(Res. 89-31, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 32.06 OVERTIME.
   (A)   Every regular employee, excluding department supervisors and the
Village Administrator, shall be paid overtime compensation of one and one-half
times the employee’s regular hourly pay for each hour worked over 40 hours each
week.
   (B)   Hours not worked because of vacation, illness, excused or unexcused
absences or lack of work shall not be added in computing the number of hours
worked each week to determine overtime.
   (C)   Reasonable rest periods of short duration, running from one to 20
minutes, shall be counted as work time. Bona fide meal periods shall not be
considered as work time, but meal periods where the employee is required to be
on duty shall be considered as work time.
   (D)   No employee shall be entitled to work any overtime unless the overtime
work is authorized by the department supervisor and the Village Administrator
prior to the time of work, unless an emergency situation arises whereby
overtime work is necessary and obtaining the necessary authorization is
impractical.
(Ord. 82-5, passed 1-4-1982; Am. Ord. 96-71, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 32.07 CLOTHING ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Full-time village employees may receive a clothing allowance, as
established by ordinance of the Village Council from time to time.
   (B)   These ordinances are on file in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 87-36, passed 7-6-1987; Am. Ord. 90-79, passed 12-17-1990; Am. Ord. 91-
66, passed - -1991; Am. Ord. 94-100, passed 12-19-1994; Am. Ord. 97-90, passed
11-17-1997; Am. Ord. 99-09, passed 2-15-1999; Am. Ord. 00-81, passed 12-4-2000;
Am. Ord. 03-03, passed 1-6-2003; Am. Ord. 03-46, passed 8-18-2003)
§ 32.08 COMPENSATION FOR USE OF PERSONAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The compensation paid to all employees for use by them of their personal
motor vehicles for authorized village business shall be that rate currently
permitted by the Federal Internal Revenue Code as the standard mileage rate
allowed as a deduction for business purposes.
(Ord. 90-79, passed 12-17-1990; Am. Ord. 91-66, passed - -1991; Am. Ord. 94-99,
passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.09 RETIREMENT.
   (A)   All payments made by employees to their State of Ohio sponsored
retirement plan shall be tax deferred.
(Ord. 87-36, passed 7-6-1987)
   (B)   The Village Administrator is hereby established as coordinator of the
ICMA retirement plan.
(Res. 95-15, passed 2-20-1995)
§ 32.10 NONSALARY REMUNERATION.
   Employees of the village shall receive nonsalary remuneration benefits which
shall include, but not be limited to, Christmas parties, retirement parties,
plaques and recognition of service awards. These benefits shall be administered
by the Mayor and Village Administrator and expenditures over $1,000 shall
receive prior approval from the Village Council. The amount of money available
in any one year to cover this benefit shall be .495% of the prior year’s wages.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 1-3-1983)
§ 32.11 ALCOHOL AND DRUG TESTING POLICY.
   The Commercial Drivers License Alcohol and Drug Testing Policy attached to
Res. 95-89 is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code as if
set forth in full herein.
(Res. 95-89, passed 12-27-1995)
§ 32.12 SERVICE CLUBS; PAYMENT OF MEMBERSHIP DUES.
   (A)   The following supervisory employees will be eligible for reimbursement
of service club dues:
      (1)   Department heads;
      (2)   Assistant department heads;
      (3)   Administrator and Assistant Administrator;
      (4)   Clerk;
      (5)   Chief of Police and Assistant Chief of Police;
      (6)   Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief; and
      (7)   Income Tax Clerk.
   (B)   All supervisory employees who may be employed as contractual employees
will not be eligible.
   (C)   The following service clubs will be eligible for dues payment:
      (1)   Rotary;
      (2)   Business and Professional Women (BPW); and
      (3)   Lions Club.
   (D)   Dues eligible for payment will be professional dues only. Meals, fines
and other donations to the appropriate service club will not be eligible for
reimbursement.
(Ord. 96-72, passed 11-4-1996)
POLICE PERSONNEL POLICIES
§ 32.20 HOLIDAY BANK.
   (A)   A (12-day or 96-hour) holiday bank is hereby established for each of
the following Police Department employees:
      (1)   Assistant Chief;
      (2)   Sergeant; and
      (3)   Uniformed officers.
   (B)   Overtime will not be paid for holidays that fall during the officer’s
work schedule.
   (C)   Officers may schedule their holiday bank hours in the same manner as a
vacation is scheduled.
   (D)   Hours in the holiday bank that are not scheduled or used by November 1
of each year will be paid to the officer in a separate check received with the
last pay period in November.
   (E)   (1)   Officers who leave employment with the village before the end of
the year will be required to reimburse the village for a prorated portion of
holidays used, but not earned.
      (2)   The prorate for earned days equals one holiday per month.
   (F)   Full-time paramedics under the Fire Department shall be eligible to
work under the provisions of §
32.20 of the Codified Ordinances, at the discretion of the Fire Chief and
Village Administrator.
   (G)   Employees of the Police or Fire Departments who are enrolled in the
holiday bank and who leave village employment through retirement or resignation
shall be entitled to compensation for any holidays which they have earned but
have not used during the calendar year in which employment ceases.
      (1)   The pro-rate for earned days equals one holiday per month.
(Ord. 00-79, passed 12-4-2000; Am. Ord. 12-40, passed 6-18-2012)
§ 32.21 FOURTEEN-DAY/80-HOUR WORK PERIOD.
   (A)   A 14-day/80-hour work period is hereby established for each of the
following Police Department employees: Assistant Chief, Sergeant and uniformed
officers.
   (B)   During each 14-day pay period, overtime will be paid for hours worked
over 80 within that 14-day period.
(Ord. 00-79, passed 12-4-2000)
§ 32.22 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   The holiday bank and 14-day work period will begin with the first pay
period of the year 2001.
   (B)   The Finance Committee made a study of the holiday bank and 14-day work
period to determine how effective it had been in creating scheduling
flexibility for the Department. It also analyzed the financial impact its
implementation has had on the Department salary account. After a one-year trial
period, the Finance Committee has determined to continue with the holiday bank
and 14-day work period.
(Ord. 00-79, passed 12-4-2000)
CHAPTER 33: INCOME TAX
Section
   
33.01   Authority to levy tax; purposes of tax; rate
   
33.011   Authority to levy tax
   
33.012   Purposes of tax; rate
   
33.013   Allocation of funds
   
33.014   Statement of procedural history; state mandated changes to municipal
income tax
   
33.02   Effective date
   
33.03   Definitions
   
33.04   Income subject to tax for individuals
   
33.041   Determining municipal taxable income for individuals
   
33.042   Domicile
   
33.043   Exemption for member or employee of general assembly and certain
judges
   
33.044   Filing net profit taxes; election to be subject to provisions of
chapter
   
33.045   Applicability; taxable situs; apportionment
   
33.05   Collection at source
   
33.051   Collection at source; withholding from qualifying wages
   
33.052   Collection at source; occasional entrant
   
33.053   Collection at source; casino and VLT
   
33.06   Income subject to net profit tax
   
33.061   Determining municipal taxable income for taxpayers who are not
individuals
   
33.062   Net profit; income subject to net profit tax; alternative
apportionment
   
33.0621   Alternative net profits apportionment for remote employees
   
33.063   Consolidated federal income tax return
   
33.064   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs in Ohio
   
33.065   Tax credits to foster job retention
   
33.07   Declaration of estimated tax
   
33.08   Credit for tax paid
   
33.081   Credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation
   
33.082   Refundable credit for qualifying loss
   
33.083   Credit for person working in joint economic development district or
zone
   
33.084   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund
   
33.085   Credits
   
33.09   Annual return
   
33.091   Return and payment of tax
   
33.092   Return and payment of tax; individuals serving in combat zone
   
33.093   Use of Ohio Business Gateway; types of filings authorized
   
33.0931   Electronic filing for parties making election
   
33.094   Extension of time to file
   
33.095   Amended returns
   
33.096   Refunds
   
33.10   Penalty, interest, fees and charges
   
33.11   Audit
   
33.12   Rounding
   
33.13   Authority and powers of the Tax Administrator
   
33.131   Authority of Tax Administrator; administrative powers of the Tax
Administrator
   
33.132   Authority of Tax Administrator; compromise of claim and payment over
time
   
33.133   Examination of records and other documents and persons
   
33.134   Authority of Tax Administrator; requiring identifying information
   
33.14   Information provided to Tax Administrator; confidentiality
   
33.15   Fraud
   
33.16   Opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
33.17   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery
   
33.18   Local Board of Tax Review; appeal to Local Board of Tax Review
   
33.19   Actions to recover; statute of limitations
   
33.20   Adoption of rules
   
33.21   Landlord reporting
 
   
33.97   Collection of tax after termination of chapter
   
33.98   Savings clause
   
33.99   Violations; penalty
   
33.991   Additional penalties
Statutory reference:
   Municipal income taxes, see R.C. Ch. 718
§ 33.01 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE.
§ 33.011 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX.
   (A)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this chapter
are authorized by Article XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The tax on
income and the withholding tax established by this chapter are deemed to be
levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the provisions and
limitations of R.C. Chapter 718. This chapter is deemed to incorporate the
provisions of R.C. Chapter 718.
   (B)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person residing
in or earning or receiving income in the municipal corporation, and shall be
measured by municipal taxable income. The municipality shall tax income at a
uniform rate. The tax is levied on municipal taxable income, as defined herein.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for tax on income and withholding tax, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 33.012 PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE.
   To provide funds for purposes of:
   (A)   The design and installation of storm sewers, street improvements and
repairs, the acquisition of right-of-way for storm sewers and streets, debt
retirement and capital improvements for the village;
   (B)   Parks and recreational programs for the village; and
   (C)   Acquiring, constructing and otherwise improving village streets,
sidewalks, sewers and other capital improvements, there is hereby levied a tax
on all salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation, and on net profits
as hereinafter provided.
   (D)   Annual tax. Subject to the provisions of § 16 of Ord. 1171, an annual
tax for the purposes specified in §
33.012(A)-(C) shall be imposed on and after January 1, 2016, and in accordance
with §
33.012(E), at the rate of 1-1/2% per annum.
   (E)   The 1% income tax existing prior to January 1, 2000 and continuing
thereafter and levied for the purposes described in §
33.012(A), shall be levied, collected and paid with respect to income earned or
derived on and after January 1, 1967. The additional 1/2% income tax approved
by the electors of the village at the election held on May 4, 1999, and levied
for the purposes described in §
33.012(B) and (C), shall be levied, collected and paid with respect to taxable
income earned on and after January 1, 2000, until revoked.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 33.013 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be deposited
in a special income tax fund and such funds shall, after deducting the part
thereof as shall be necessary to defray all costs of collecting the tax and the
cost of administering and enforcing the provisions of this chapter, be
disbursed in the following manner.
   (A)   As concerns the 1% income tax existing prior to January 1, 2000, and
continuing thereafter and levied for the purpose described in §
33.012(A), all of the net available income tax receipts received annually from
that tax shall be used for the purposes of the design and installation of storm
sewers, street improvements and repairs, the acquisition of right-of-way for
storm sewers and streets, debt retirement and capital improvements.
   (B)   As concerns the 1/2% income tax, effective January 1, 2000, and
approved by a vote of the electors on May 4, 1999, and levied for the purposes
described in §
33.012(B) and (C), one-half of the net available income tax receipts received
annually from that tax shall be used for the purposes of parks and recreational
programs for the village as described in §
33.012(B) and one-half of the net available income tax receipts received
annually from that tax shall be used for the purposes of acquiring,
constructing and otherwise improving village streets, sidewalks, sewers and
other capital improvements as described in §
33.012(C).
(Ord. 1171, passed 5-26-1966; Am. Res. 1192, passed 11-28-1966; Am. Ord. 76-1,
passed 1-5-1976; Am. Ord. 80-49, passed 8-18-1980; Am. Ord. 81-39, passed 9-21-
1981; Am. Ord. 85-34, passed 8-5-1985; Am. Ord. 90-44, passed 7-16-1990; Am.
Ord. 95-46, passed 6-19-1995; Am. Ord. 99-06, passed 5-24-1999; Am. Ord. 15-77,
passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-04, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 33.014 STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL HISTORY; STATE MANDATED CHANGES TO MUNICIPAL
INCOME TAX.
   (A)   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to R.C. Chapter 718 were
enacted by Am Sub H.B. 5, passed by the 130th General Assembly, and signed by
Governor Kasich on December 19, 2014, and H.B. 5 required municipal
corporations to conform to and adopt the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 in
order to have the authority to impose, enforce, administer and collect a
municipal income tax.
   (B)   As mandated by H.B. 5, municipal income tax Ordinance 2015-77,
effective January 1, 2016, comprehensively amends
Chapter 33 in accordance with the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 to allow the
municipality to continue the income tax and withholding tax administration and
collection efforts on behalf of the municipality.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015)
§ 33.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Ordinance 2019-04, effective January 1, 2018, and corresponding
changes to R.C. Chapter 718, apply to municipal taxable years beginning on or
after January 1, 2018. All provisions of this chapter apply to taxable years
beginning 2018 and succeeding taxable years.
   (B)   For municipal taxable years beginning before January 1, 2018, the
municipality shall continue to administer, audit, and enforce the income tax of
the municipality under R.C. Chapter 718 and ordinances and resolutions of the
municipality as that chapter and those ordinances and resolutions existed
before January 1, 2018.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for tax on income and withholding tax, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 33.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Any term used in §§
33.01 to
33.99 that is not otherwise defined in this chapter has the same meaning as
when used in a comparable context in laws of the United States relating to
federal income taxation or in Title LVII of the Ohio Revised Code, unless a
different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this chapter that is
not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable context in both
the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in Title LVII
of the Ohio Revised Code and the use is not consistent, then the use of the
term in the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax shall
control over the use of the term in Title LVII of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the singular shall include the plural,
and the masculine shall include the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   (C)   As used in this chapter:
      (1)   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME, means income apportioned or sitused to
the municipal corporation under §
33.045, as applicable, reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the municipal corporation.
      (2)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME, for a person required to file as a
C corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under R.C. § 718.01(D)(5) and (C)(23)(d) of this section, means a C
corporation's federal taxable income before net operating losses and special
deductions as determined under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income.
         (b)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (C)(1)(a) of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (c)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or
other disposition of an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
         (d)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(d)2. of this section,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of
an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   Division (C)(a)(d)1. of this section does not apply to the
extent the income or gain is income or gain described in section 1245 or 1250
of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (e)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
         (f)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
         (g)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
         (h)   Deduct exempt income to the extent not otherwise deducted or
excluded in computing adjusted federal taxable income.
         (i)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group's federal taxable income in accordance with §
33.063(E)(3)(b).
         (j)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group's federal taxable income in accordance with §
33.063(E)(3)(b).
            1.   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded
entity that has made the election described in §
33.03(C)(47)(a), and is not a publicly traded partnership that has made the
election described in §
33.03(C)(2) of the Codified Ordinances, the taxpayer shall compute adjusted
federal taxable income under this section as if the taxpayer were a C
corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid or
accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member,
or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible expense unless such
payments are in consideration for the use of capital and treated as payment of
interest under section 469 of the Internal Revenue Code or United States
treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified self-employed
retirement plan with respect to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member, or former member of the taxpayer, amounts paid or accrued
to or for health insurance for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member, or former member, and amounts paid or accrued to or for
life insurance for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder,
member, or former member shall not be allowed as a deduction.
            2.   Nothing in division (C)(2) of this section shall be construed
as allowing the taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be
construed as allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for
purposes of federal self-employment tax.
         (k)   1.   Except as limited by divisions (C)(1)(k)2., 3. and 4. of
this section, deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a taxable
year beginning on or after January 1, 2017. The amount of such net operating
loss shall be deducted from net profit that is reduced by exempt income to the
extent necessary to reduce municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining
unused portion of the net operating loss carried forward to not more than five
consecutive taxable years following the taxable year in which the loss was
incurred, but in no case for more years than necessary for the deduction to be
fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (C)(1)
(k) of this section to offset qualifying wages.
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, or
2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than 50% of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by division (C)(1)
(k)1. of this section.
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed by
division (C)(1)(k)1. of this section.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
division (C)(1)(k) of this section.
            5.   Nothing in division (C)(1)(k)3.a. of this section precludes a
person from carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (C)(1)(k)3.a. of this section. To
the extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in
one or more taxable years by operation of division (C)(1)(k)3.a. of this
section is carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable
year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021, or 2022, the limitation described in
division (C)(1)(k)3.a. of this section shall apply to the amount carried
forward.
      (2.1)   (a)   ASSESSMENT means any of the following:
            1.   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid or nonpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty, or interest, to the municipal corporation;
            2.   A full or partial denial of a refund request issued under §
33.096(B)(2);
            3.   A Tax Administrator's denial of a taxpayer's request for use
of an alternative apportionment method, issued under §
33.062(B)(2); or
            4.   A Tax Administrator's requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method, issued under §
33.062(B)(3).
            5.   For purposes of division (C)(2.1)(a)1., 2., 3. and 4. of this
section, an assessment shall commence the person's time limitation for making
an appeal to the Local Board of Tax Review pursuant to § 33.18, and shall have
"ASSESSMENT" written in all capital letters at the top of such finding.
         (b)   ASSESSMENT does not include notice(s) denying a request for
refund issued under §
33.096(B)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax Administrator's request for
additional information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors,
or a Tax Administrator's other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by division (C)(2.1)(a) of this
section.
      (3)   AUDIT means the examination of a person or the inspection of the
books, records, memoranda, or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before
the Tax Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal
income tax.
      (4)   BOARD OF REVIEW has same meaning as "Local Board of Tax Review".
      (5)   CALENDAR QUARTER means the three-month period ending on the last
day of March, June, September, or December.
      (6)   CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 3772.01.
      (7)   CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE,
and similar terms include any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. §
5703.056.
      (8)   COMPENSATION means any form of remuneration paid to an employee for
personal services.
      (9)   DISREGARDED ENTITY means a single member limited liability company,
a qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company,
subsidiary, or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
      (10)   DOMICILE means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which, whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (11)   EXEMPT INCOME means all of the following:
         (a)   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(11)(b)2. of this
section, intangible income;
            2.   A municipal corporation that taxed any type of intangible
income on March 29, 1988, pursuant to Section 3 of S.B. 238 of the 116th
general assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a majority of the
electors of the municipal corporation voting on the question of whether to
permit the taxation of that type of intangible income after 1988 voted in favor
thereof at an election held on November 8, 1988.
         (c)   Social security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state, or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident,
or liability insurance policies. As used in division (C)(11)(c) of this
section, "unemployment compensation" does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (d)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary, or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities.
         (e)   Compensation paid under section R.C. §§ 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a
person serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such
compensation does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in
excess of $1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation.
         (f)   Dues, contributions, and similar payments received by
charitable, religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions,
lodges, and similar organizations;
         (g)   Alimony and child support received;
         (h)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages;
         (i)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject
to the tax levied under R.C. §§ 5727.24 or 5727.30. Division (C)(11)(i) of this
section does not apply for purposes of R.C. Ch. 5745.
         (j)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of
income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a municipal corporation is
specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income of a decedent's estate
during the period of administration except such income from the operation of a
trade or business;
         (k)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under section 107 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (l)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
division (C)(34) of this section;
         (m)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of
a United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States air
force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile.
         (n)   Intentionally left blank.
         (o)   All of the municipal taxable income earned by individuals under
18 years of age.
         (p)   1.   Except as provided in divisions (C)(11)(p)2., 3., and 4. of
this section, qualifying wages described in §
33.052(B)(1) or (E) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the municipality under either of those divisions.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(11)(p)1. of this
section does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the
employee resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
            3.   The exemption provided in division (C)(11)(p)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold
under §
33.052(D)(2).
            4.   The exemption provided in division (C)(11)(p)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions
apply:
               a.   For qualifying wages described in §
33.052(B)(1), the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee's principal
place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
33.052(E), the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer's fixed location is
located;
               b.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (C)(11)(p)4.a. of this section on the basis of the employee not
performing services in that municipal corporation.
         (q)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(11)(q)2. or 3. of this
section, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident
individual for personal services performed in the municipality on not more than
20 days in a taxable year.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(11)(q)1. of this
section does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual's base of operation is located in the
municipality.
               b.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of division (C)(11)
(q)2.b.
of this section, "professional athlete," "professional entertainer," and
"public figure" have the same meanings as in §
33.052.
               c.    Compensation to which division (C)(11)(q) of this section
applies shall be treated as earned or received at the individual's base of
operation. If the individual does not have a base of operation, the
compensation shall be treated as earned or received where the individual is
domiciled.
               d.   For purposes of division (C)(11)(q) of this section, "base
of operation" means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront, or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and
at which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         (r)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed
for a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence.
         (s)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution
or laws of the United States.
         Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through entity
under division (C)(11) of this section is exempt income of each owner of the
pass-through entity to the extent of that owner's distributive or proportionate
share of that item of the entity's income.
      (12)   FORM 2106 means internal revenue service form 2106 filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (13)   GENERIC FORM means an electronic or paper form that is not
prescribed by a particular municipal corporation and that is designed for
reporting taxes withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer,
estimated municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability,
including a request for refund.
      (14)   INCOME means the following:
         (a)   1.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident's distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (C)(23)(d) of this
section.
            2.   For the purposes of division (C)(14)(a)1. of this section:
               a.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident's distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident's ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident's distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident's ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (C)(14)(a)4. of this section;
               b.   The resident's distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity's net
profit for the current taxable year.
            3.   Division (C)(14)(a)2. of this section does not apply with
respect to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership
interest in an S corporation unless shareholders' distributive shares of net
profits from S corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation.
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer's
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer's net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         (b)    In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipality, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident's distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
         (c)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer;
         (d)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings
from games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid
to another municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the municipal
corporation where winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in §
33.081.
      (15)   INTANGIBLE INCOME means income of any of the following types:
income yield, interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from
the ownership, sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property
including, but not limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as
those terms are defined in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights,
trademarks, trade names, investments in real estate investment trusts,
investments in regulated investment companies, and appreciation on deferred
compensation. "Intangible income" does not include prizes, awards, or other
income associated with any lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other
similar games of chance.
      (16)   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE means the "Internal Revenue Code of 1986,"
100 Sta. 2085, 26 U.S.C.A. 1, as amended.
      (17)   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY means a limited liability company formed
under R.C. Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
      (18)   LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW and BOARD OF TAX REVIEW means the entity
created under §
33.18.
      (19)   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION means, in general terms, a status conferred
upon a local government unit, by state law giving the unit certain autonomous
operating authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent domain,
police power and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic development
district or joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under
R.C. §§ 715.691, 715.70, 715.71, or 715.74.
      (20)   (a)   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME means the following:
            1.   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by
exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as
applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
33.062, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the municipality.
            2.   a.   For an individual who is a resident of a municipality
other than a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income
to the extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as provided in
division (C)(20)(b) of this section, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward available to the individual for the municipality.
               b.   For an individual who is a resident of a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted,
and increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation
from the qualified municipal corporation's tax on or before December 31, 2013.
If a qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31, 2013, exempts
income earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
municipal taxable income for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of R.C. § 718.03.
         3.   For an individual who is a nonresident of the municipality,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under § 33.062,
then reduced as provided in division (C)(20)(b) of this section, and further
reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to the
individual for the municipality.
         (b)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is
an individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (C)(20)
(a)2.a. or 3. of this section, the amount of the individual's employee business
expenses reported on the individual's form 2106 that the individual deducted
for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation
imposed by section 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For the municipal
corporation in which the taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all
such expenses allowed for federal income tax purposes. For a municipal
corporation in which the taxpayer is not a resident, the taxpayer may deduct
such expenses only to the extent the expenses are related to the taxpayer's
performance of personal services in that nonresident municipal corporation.
      (21)   MUNICIPALITY means the Village of Archbold.
      (22)   NET OPERATING LOSS means a loss incurred by a person in the
operation of a trade or business. "Net operating loss" does not include
unutilized losses resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations, or
passive activity loss limitations.
      (23)   (a)   NET PROFIT for a person other than an individual means
adjusted federal taxable income.
         (b)   NET PROFIT for a person who is an individual means the
individual's net profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or
schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of division, the net operating loss carried forward shall be calculated and
deducted in the same manner as provided in division (C)(1)(h) of this section.
         (c)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding division
(C)(23)(a) of this section, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not be
taxable as against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in
the net profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
         (d)   1.   For purposes of this chapter, "publicly traded partnership"
means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on an
established securities market. A "publicly traded partnership" may have any
number of partners.
            2.   For the purposes of this chapter, and not withstanding any
other provision of this chapter, the net profit of a publicly traded
partnership that makes the election described in division (C)(23)(d) of this
section shall be taxed as if the partnership were a C corporation, and shall
not be treated as the net profit or income of any owner of the partnership.
            3.   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its net profits
in one or more municipal corporations in this state may elect to be treated as
a C corporation for municipal income tax purposes. The publicly traded
partnership shall make the election in every municipal corporation in which the
partnership is subject to taxation on its net profits. The election shall be
made on the annual tax return filed in each such municipal corporation. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election. The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (C)(23)(d)4 of this section.
            4.   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (C)(23)(d)3. of this section. The election to
discontinue filing as a C corporation is binding for a five-year period
beginning with the first taxable year of the election and continues to be
binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a partnership for municipal
purposes. An election to discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in
the first year following the last year of a five-year election period.
            5.   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but division (C)(23)(d) of this section
applies to all municipal corporations in which an individual owner of the
partnership resides.
            6.   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
Corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
      (24)   NONRESIDENT means an individual that is not a resident of the
municipality.
      (25)   OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY means the online computer network system,
created under R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file
business reply forms with state agencies and includes any successor electronic
filing and payment system.
      (26)   OTHER PAYER means any person, other than an individual's employer
or the employer's agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the
federal gross income of the individual. "Other payer" includes casino operators
and video lottery terminal sales agents.
      (27)   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY means a partnership not treated as an
association taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a
limited liability company not treated as an association taxable as a C
corporation for federal income tax purposes, an S corporation, or any other
class of entity from which the income or profits of the entity are given pass-
through treatment for federal income tax purposes. "Pass-through entity" does
not include a trust, estate, grantor of a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
      (28)   PENSION means any amount paid to an employee or former employee
that is reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form.
Pension does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to
nonqualified deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an
IRS form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
      (28A)   PENSION means a retirement benefit plan, regardless of whether
the plan satisfies the qualifications described under section 401(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code, including amounts that are taxable under the "Federal
Insurance Contributions Act," Chapter 21 of the Internal Revenue Code,
excluding employee contributions and elective deferrals, and regardless of
whether such amounts are paid in the same taxable year in which the amounts are
included in the employee's wages, as defined by section 3121(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
      (28B)   RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN means an arrangement whereby an entity
provides benefits to individuals either on or after their termination of
service because of retirement or disability. RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN does not
include wage continuation payments, severance payments, or payments made for
accrued personal or vacation time.
      (29)   PERSON includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock
companies, business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S
corporations, governmental entities, and any other entity.
      (30)   POSTAL SERVICE means the United States postal service, or private
delivery service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon
delivery schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
      (31)   POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK, and similar terms include the
date recorded and marked by a delivery service and recorded electronically to a
database kept in the regular course if its business and marked on the cover in
which the payment or document is enclosed, the date on which the payment or
document was given to the delivery service for delivery.
      (32)   (a)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD means any net
operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2017, to
the extent such loss was permitted, by a resolution or ordinance of the
municipality that was adopted by the municipality before January 1, 2016, to be
carried forward and utilized to offset income or net profit generated in such
municipality in future taxable years.
         (b)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any
pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
      (33)   QUALIFIED MUNICIPAL CORPORATION means a municipal corporation
that, by resolution or ordinance adopted on or before December 31, 2011,
adopted Ohio adjusted gross income, as defined by R.C. § 5747.01, as the income
subject to tax for the purposes of imposing a municipal income tax.
      (34)   QUALIFYING WAGES means wages, as defined in section 3121(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as
follows:
         (a)   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in section 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer.
            3.    Intentionally left blank.
            4.    Intentionally left blank.
            5.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         (b)   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1, 1986.
            2.   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises
from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise
of a stock option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock
purchased under a stock option. Division (C)(34)(b)2. of this section applies
only to those amounts constituting ordinary income.
            3.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in section 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Division (C)(34)(b)3. of this section applies only to employee contributions
and employee deferrals.
            4.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages.
            5.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with section 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
            6.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               a.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer's gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer's gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
               b.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
               c.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
               d.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either division (C)(34)(b) of this section or R.C. §
718.03, as that section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the
130th general assembly, March 23, 2015.
      (35)   RELATED ENTITY means any of the following:
         (a)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder's
family enumerated in section 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the
stockholder and the members of the stockholder's family own directly,
indirectly, beneficially, or constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of
the value of the taxpayer's outstanding stock;
         (b)   A stockholder, or a stockholder's partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder's partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer's
outstanding stock;
         (c)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (C)(35)(d) of this section,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, at least 50% of the value of the corporation's outstanding
stock;
         (d)   The attribution rules described in section 318 of the Internal
Revenue Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership
requirements in divisions (C)(35)(a) to (c) of this section have been met.
      (36)   RELATED MEMBER means a person that, with respect to the taxpayer
during all or any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a
component member as defined in section 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or
a person to or from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance
with section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of
determining whether a person is a related member under this division, "twenty
percent" shall be substituted for "5 percent" wherever "5 percent" appears in
section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (37)   RESIDENT means an individual who is domiciled in the municipality
as determined under §
33.042.
      (38)   S CORPORATION means a person that has made an election under
subchapter S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its
taxable year.
      (39)   SCHEDULE C means internal revenue service schedule C (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (40)   SCHEDULE E means Internal Revenue Service schedule E (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (41)   SCHEDULE F means Internal Revenue Service schedule F (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (42)   SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY means a limited liability
company that has one direct member.
      (43)   SMALL EMPLOYER means any employer that had total revenue of less
than $500,000 during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this division,
"total revenue" means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited
to, sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends, and other
investment income; commissions; premiums; money; property; grants;
contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient service
revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees; tuition
payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of payment from
a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and any other
similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under generally
accepted accounting principles. "Small employer" does not include the federal
government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
      (44)   TAX ADMINISTRATOR means the individual charged with direct
responsibility for administration of an income tax levied by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this chapter, and also includes the following:
         (a)   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of another municipal
corporation;
         (b)   A person retained by a municipal corporation to administer a tax
levied by the municipal corporation, but only if the municipal corporation does
not compensate the person in whole or in part on a contingency basis;
         (c)   The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
      (45)   TAX RETURN PREPARER means any individual described in section 7701
(a)(36) of the Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. 301.7701-15.
      (46)   TAXABLE YEAR means the calendar year or the taxpayer's fiscal year
ending during the calendar year, or fractional part thereof, upon which the
calculation of the taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income is based pursuant
to this chapter. If a taxpayer's taxable year is changed for federal income tax
purposes, the taxable year for purposes of §§
33.02 to
33.07 is changed accordingly but may consist of an aggregation of more than one
taxable year for federal income tax purposes. The Tax Commissioner may
prescribe by rule an appropriate period as the taxable year for a taxpayer that
has had a change of its taxable year for federal income tax purposes, for a
taxpayer that has two or more short taxable years for federal income tax
purposes as the result of a change of ownership, or for a new taxpayer that
would otherwise have no taxable year.
      (47)   (a)   TAXPAYER means a person subject to a tax levied on income by
a municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter. "Taxpayer" does not
include a grantor trust or, except as provided in division (C)(47)(b)1. of this
section, a disregarded entity, or natural persons or entities subject to the
tax imposed under R.C. Chapter 5745. "Taxpayer" may include receivers,
assignees or trustees in bankruptcy when such persons are required to assume
the role of a taxpayer.
         (b)   1.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all Ohio municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
               a.   The limited liability company's single member is also a
limited liability company.
               b.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004.
               c.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under R.C. § 718.01(L) as this section existed on December 31, 2004.
               d.   The limited liability company was not formed for the
purpose of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability
of the limited liability company or its single member.
               e.   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place
of business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to
the election.
            2.   For purposes of division (C)(47)(b)1.e. of this section, a
municipal corporation was the primary place of business of a limited liability
company if, for the limited liability company's taxable year ending in 2003,
its income tax liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any
other municipal corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal
corporation for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
      (48)   TAXPAYERS' RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES means the rights provided
to taxpayers in R.C. §§ 718.11 , 718.12 , 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37,
718.38, 5717.011, and 5717.03 and any corresponding ordinances of the
municipality, and the responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold,
remit, and pay municipal income tax and otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 718
and resolutions, ordinances, and rules adopted by a municipal corporation for
the imposition and administration of a municipal income tax.
      (49)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
      (50)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT means a lottery sales agent
licensed under R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf
of the state pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
      (51)   TAX RETURN or RETURN means the notifications and reports required
to be filed pursuant to §§
33.05 to
33.07 for the purpose of reporting municipal income taxes, and includes
declarations of estimated tax.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019; Am. Ord.
2019-55, passed 10-21-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
§ 33.04 INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS.
§ 33.041 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   "Municipal taxable income" for a resident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   "Income" reduced by "exempt income" to the extent such exempt
income is otherwise included in income, reduced by allowable employee business
expense deduction as found in
§
33.03(C)(20)(b), further reduced by any "pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward" equals "municipal taxable income".
         (a)   "Income" is defined in §
33.03(C)(14).
            1.   "Qualifying wages" is defined in §
33.03(C)(34).
            2.   "Net profit" is included in "income", and is defined in §
33.03(C)(23). This section also provides that the net operating loss
carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in
§
33.03(C)(1)(h). Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer
from rental real estate is provided in §
33.062(E).
            3.   Section
33.03(C)(14) provides the following: offsetting and net operating loss
carryforward treatment in §
33.03(C)(14)(a)2.a.; resident's distributive share of net profit from pass
through entity treatment in §
33.03(C)(14)(a)2.b.; treatment of S Corporation distributive share of net
profit in the hands of the shareholder in §
33.03(C)(14)(a)3.; restriction of amount of loss permitted to be carried
forward for use by taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year in §
33.03(C)(14)(a)4.
            4.   "Pass through entity" is defined in §
33.03(C)(27).
         (b)   "Exempt income" is defined in §
33.03(C)(11).
         (c)   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in §
33.03(C)(20)(b), and is subject to the limitations provided in that section.
         (d)   "Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward" is defined in §
33.03(C)(32).
   (B)   "Municipal taxable income" for a nonresident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   "Income" reduced by "exempt income" to the extent such exempt
income is otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned or sitused
to the municipality as provided in §
33.062, reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction as found in §
33.03(C)(20)(b), further reduced by any "pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward" equals "municipal taxable income".
         (a)   "Income" is defined in §
33.03(C)(14).
            1.   "Qualifying wages" is defined in §
33.03(C)(34).
            2.   "Net profit" is included in "income", and is defined in §
33.03(C)(23). This section also provides that the net operating loss
carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in
§
33.03(C)(1)(h). "Net profit" for a nonresident individual includes any net
profit of the nonresident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit or
loss of only pass through entity owned directly or indirectly by the
nonresident.
            3.   "Pass through entity" is defined in §
33.03(C)(27).
         (b)   "Exempt income" is defined in §
33.03(C)(11).
         (c)   "Apportioned or sitused to the municipality as provided in §
33.062 includes the apportionment of net profit income attributable to work
done or services performed in the municipality. Treatment of net profits
received by an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is provided in §
33.062(E).
         (d)   "Allowable employee business expense deduction" as described in
§
33.03(C)(20)(b), is subject to the limitations provided in that section. For a
nonresident of the municipality, the deduction is limited to the extent the
expenses are related to the performance of personal services by the nonresident
in the municipality.
         (e)   "Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward" is defined in §
33.03(C)(32).
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 33.042 DOMICILE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Domicile" means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (2)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the municipality for
all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
municipality on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if
the Tax Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
      (3)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (A)(1) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The individual's domicile in other taxable years;
      (2)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (3)   The address on the individual's driver's license;
      (4)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual's
residence or domicile;
      (5)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the individual;
      (6)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding the
individual's residency;
      (7)   The primary location at which the individual is employed.
      (8)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual's dependents as defined in section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code,
to the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual's spouse in the municipal
corporation or state where the educational institution is located;
      (9)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
municipality. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one "contact
period" with the municipality if the individual is away overnight from the
individual's abode located outside of the municipality and while away overnight
from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the municipality. For purposes of this section, the state's
contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination have no
bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
   (C)   All applicable factors are provided in R.C. § 718.012.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 33.043 EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN
JUDGES.
   (A)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to levy
a tax on the income of any member or employee of the Ohio General Assembly,
including the Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a result of
services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from appropriated
funds of this state.
   (B)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the City of Columbus
shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a Justice of the Supreme
Court received as a result of services rendered as the Chief Justice or
Justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a tax on the
income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on the income
of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the
district, received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Annual return; filing, see R.C. § 718.50
§ 33.044 FILING NET PROFIT TAXES; ELECTION TO BE SUBJECT TO PROVISIONS OF
CHAPTER.
   (A)   A taxpayer may elect to be subject to §§
33.05 to
33.07 in lieu of the provisions set forth in the remainder of this chapter.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, upon the taxpayer's
election, both of the following shall apply:
      (1)   The State Tax Commissioner shall serve as the sole administrator of
the municipal net profit tax for which the taxpayer as defined in §
33.03(C)(47)(a) is liable for the term of the election;
      (2)   The Commissioner shall administer the tax pursuant to R.C. §§
718.80 to 718.95, §§ 33.05 to 33.07, and any applicable provision of R.C.
Chapter 5703.
   (B)   (1)   A taxpayer shall make the initial election on or before the
first day of the third month after the beginning of the taxpayer's taxable year
by notifying the Tax Commissioner and the village, on a form prescribed by the
Tax Commissioner.
      (2)   (a)   The election, once made by the taxpayer, applies to the
taxable year in which the election is made and to each subsequent taxable year
until the taxpayer notifies the Tax Commissioner and the municipality of its
termination of the election.
         (b)   A notification of termination shall be made, on a form
prescribed by the Tax Commissioner, on or before the first day of the third
month of any taxable year.
         (c)   Upon a timely and valid termination of the election, the
taxpayer is no longer subject to §§
33.05 to
33.07, and is instead subject to the provisions set forth in the remainder of
this chapter.
   (C)   The Tax Commissioner shall enforce and administer §§
33.05 to
33.07. In addition to any other powers conferred upon the Tax Commissioner by
law, the Tax Commissioner may:
      (1)   Prescribe all forms necessary to administer those sections;
      (2)   Adopt such rules as the Tax Commissioner finds necessary to carry
out those sections;
      (3)   Appoint and employ such personnel as are necessary to carry out the
duties imposed upon the Tax Commissioner by those sections.
   (D)   The Tax Commissioner shall not be considered a Tax Administrator, as
that term is defined in R.C. § 718.01 and §
33.03(C)(44).
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 33.045 APPLICABILITY; TAXABLE SITUS; APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer that is engaged in a business or
profession in the village and that has made the election under §
33.03.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, net
profit from a business or profession conducted both within and without the
boundaries of the village shall be considered as having a taxable situs in the
village for purposes of municipal income taxation in the same proportion as the
average ratio of the following:
      (1)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the village during the taxable period to the average original cost of all of
the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the
business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
      As used in the preceding paragraph, tangible personal or real property
shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such
property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
      (2)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the village to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during
the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession, wherever
the individual's services are performed, excluding compensation from which
taxes are not required to be withheld under § 33.06;
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the village to
total gross receipts of the business or profession during the same period from
sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
   (B)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A) of this
section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer's business activity in
the village, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Commissioner may require,
that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any portion of the income of the
taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method involving one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipal corporation;
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Commissioner denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
33.17(A).
      (3)   The Tax Commissioner may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(1) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
33.17(A).
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) of this section, "wages, salaries, and
other compensation" includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid
to an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
         (c)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee's presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Commissioner determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (2) of this section solely
in order to avoid or reduce the employer's municipal income tax liability. If
the Tax Commissioner makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Tax
Commissioner's determination was unreasonable.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A)(3) of this section, and except as
provided in §
33.0621, receipts from sales and rentals made and services performed shall be
sitused to a village as follows:
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the village only if, regardless of where title passes, the property
meets either of the following criteria:
         (a)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the village from
a stock of goods located within the village.
         (b)   The property is delivered within the village from a location
outside the village, provided the taxpayer is regularly engaged through its own
employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales within such village and the
sales result from such solicitation or promotion.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to
village to the extent that such services are performed in the village.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the village shall be sitused to the village.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the village shall be sitused to the
village.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the village based upon the extent to which the
tangible personal property is used in the village.
   (E)   Commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the
sale, purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the village in
which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate agent
or broker shall be allocated to the village based upon the ratio of the
commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase, or lease of
real estate located in the village to the commissions received from the sale,
purchase, or lease of real estate everywhere in the taxable year.
   (F)   If, in computing a taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income, the
taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee's
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under these Codified Ordinances by the village or substantially
similar provision of the codified ordinances of another municipal corporation,
the taxpayer shall add the amount that is exempt from taxation to the
taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to the village. In no case shall a
taxpayer be required to add to its net profit that was apportioned to the
village any amount other than the amount upon which the employee would be
required to pay tax were the amount related to the stock option not exempted
from taxation. This division applies solely for the purpose of making an
adjustment to the amount of a taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to the
village under this section.
   (G)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) of this section
for the purposes of that division or division (B) of this section, the owner of
a disregarded entity shall include in the owner's ratios the property, payroll,
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 1-7-2019; Am. Ord. 2023- 55, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 33.05 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
§ 33.051 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; WITHHOLDING FROM QUALIFYING WAGES.
   (A)   (1)    Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or
doing business in the municipality shall withhold from each employee an amount
equal to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the
municipality multiplied by the applicable rate of the municipality's income
tax, except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under §
33.052 or division (D) or (F) of this section. An employer, agent of an
employer, or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from qualifying
wages on the date that the employer, agent, or other payer directly,
indirectly, or constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the
qualifying wages to the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (A)
(1) of this section, an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may also
deduct and withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal
corporation in which the employee is a resident.
   (B)   (1)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall remit to
the Tax Administrator of the municipality the greater of the income taxes
deducted and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld
by the employer, agent, or other payer, along with any report required by the
Tax Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the following
schedule:
         (a)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer not required
to make payments under division (B)(1)(b) or (B)(1)(c) of this section of taxes
required to be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax
Administrator not later than the last day of the month following the end of
each calendar quarter.
         (b)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded
$2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipality in any month of the
preceding calendar quarter exceeded $200. Payment under division (B)(1)(b) of
this section shall be made so that the payment is received by the Tax
Administrator not later than 15 days after the last day of each month.
   (C)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and file
a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or other
payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent, or other payer under this
division shall be accepted by the municipality as the return required of an
employee whose sole income subject to the tax under this chapter is the
qualifying wages reported by the employee's employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, unless the municipality requires all resident individual taxpayers
to file a tax return under §
33.091.
   (D)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual's disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation's
successor entity.
   (E)   (1)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer's, agent's, or other
payer's exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
      (2)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to
remit to the municipality
the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability for that tax unless the
employee colluded with the employer, agent, or other payer in connection with
the failure to remit the tax withheld.
   (F)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
   (G)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the municipality until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (H)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer shall
file a Withholding Reconciliation Return with the Tax Administrator listing the
names, addresses, and social security numbers of all employees from whose
qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
municipality during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if
any, from each such employee's qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying
wages paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of
every other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have
been withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee,
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
   (I)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer's or employee's liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
   (J)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer's employees and constituting
qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under the
employer's control. For the purposes of this division, a tip or gratuity is
under the employer's control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to
the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays
the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card, or other electronic means.
   (K)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer at
the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this chapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for the
purposes of this section.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Withholding taxes from qualifying wages, see R.C. § 718.03
§ 33.052 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; OCCASIONAL ENTRANT.
   (A)   The following terms as used in this section:
      (1)   "Employer" includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
      (2)   "Professional athlete" means an athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
      (3)   "Professional entertainer" means a person who performs services in
the professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
      (4)   "Public figure" means a person of prominence who performs services
at discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events,
for wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
      (5)   "Fixed location" means a permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
      (6)   "Worksite location" means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than
twenty days during the calendar year. "Worksite location" does not include the
home of an employee.
      (7)   "Principal place of work" means the fixed location to which an
employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary
basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, "principal place of work" means
the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, "principal place of work" means the
location in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days
in a calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee's
employer.
      If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the employee
spent the "greatest number of days in a calendar year" performing services for
or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more municipal
corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days that is
greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other municipal
corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee's qualifying wages
subject to division (B)(1)(a) of this section among those two or more municipal
corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and reasonable
method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among such municipal
corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales made by the
employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal corporation to which
qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall be the employee's
"principal place of work" with respect to those qualifying wages for the
purposes of this section.
      For the purposes of this division, the location at which an employee
spends a particular day shall be deemed in accordance with division (B)(2) of
this section, except that "location" shall be substituted for "municipal
corporation" wherever "municipal corporation" appears in that division.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C), (E), (F), and (G) of this section, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages
paid to an employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal
corporation that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in
the municipal corporation on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of
the following conditions applies:
         (a)   The employee's principal place of work is located in the
municipality.
         (b)   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the municipality. For the purposes of this division, "presumed
worksite location" means a construction site or other temporary worksite in
this state at which the employer provides services that can reasonably be
expected by the employer to last more than 20 days in a calendar year. Services
can "reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20 days" if
either of the following applies at the time the services commence:
            1.   The nature of the services are such that it will require more
than 20 days of actual services to complete the services;
            2.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to perform
services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services at the
location for more than 20 days.
         (c)   The employee is a resident of the municipality and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee's qualifying wages as provided
in §
33.051.
         (d)   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure within the municipality.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (B)(1) of this section, an employee
shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal
corporation only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other
municipal corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount
of time an employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing
one or more of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent
at the employee's principal place of work:
         (a)   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         (b)   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         (c)   Traveling from any location to another location in order to pick
up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that has
been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished, processed,
remanufactured, or improved by the employee's employer;
         (d)   Transporting or delivering property described in division (B)(2)
(c) of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the employee
does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate owned,
used, or controlled by a person other than the employee's employer;
         (e)   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee's final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee's
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (C)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
chapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division (B)
(1) of this section shall apply only if, with respect to the employee's
qualifying wages described in that division, the employer withholds and remits
tax on such qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the
employee's principal place of work is located.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in a municipal corporation exceeds the twenty-day threshold
described in division (B)(1) of this section, the employer shall withhold and
remit tax to that municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that
calendar year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for
personal services performed in that municipal corporation.
      (2)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (D)(1) of this section may elect to withhold tax for
that municipal corporation for the first 20 days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
      (3)   If an employer makes the election described in division (D)(2) of
this section, the taxes
withheld and paid by such an employer during those first 20 days to the
municipal corporation in which the employee's principal place of work is
located are refundable to the employee.
   (E)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee's qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer's fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in §
33.03. To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for a
taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer to provide the Tax
Administrator with the employer's federal income tax return for the preceding
taxable year.
   (F)   Divisions (B)(1) and (D) of this section shall not apply to the extent
that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the
manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of §
33.051.
   (G)   In the case of a person performing personal services at a petroleum
refinery located in a municipal corporation that imposes a tax on income, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on the qualifying
wages of such a person if the person performs those services on 12 or fewer
days in a calendar year, unless the principal place of work of the employer is
located in another municipal corporation in this state that imposes a tax
applying to compensation paid to the person for services performed on those
days and the person is not liable to that other municipal corporation for tax
on the compensation paid for such services. For the purposes of this division,
a petroleum refinery is a facility with a standard industrial classification
code facility classification of 2911, petroleum refining.
   Notwithstanding division (D) of this section, if, during a calendar year,
the number of days an individual performs personal services at a petroleum
refinery exceeds 12, the employer shall withhold tax for the municipal
corporation for the first 12 days for which the employer paid qualifying wages
to the individual and for all subsequent days in the calendar year on which the
individual performed services at the refinery.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
   Municipal income tax on qualifying wages paid to an employee for the
performance of personal services, see R.C. § 718.011
§ 33.053 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; CASINO AND VLT.
   (A)   The municipality shall require a casino facility or a casino operator,
as defined in Section 6(C)(9) of Article XV, Ohio Constitution, and R.C. §
3772.01, respectively, or a lottery sales agent conducting video lottery
terminals sales on behalf of the state to withhold and remit municipal income
tax with respect to amounts other than qualifying wages as provided in this
section.
   (B)   If a person's winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the internal revenue service of the amount is required by section
6041 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the casino operator shall deduct
and withhold municipal income tax from the person's winnings at the rate of the
tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is
located.
   (C)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator are held in trust
for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator shall
file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipality,
providing the name, address, and social security number of the person from
whose winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of each such
deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the amount of
the winnings from which each such amount was withheld, the type of casino
gaming that resulted in such winnings, and any other information required by
the Tax Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall remit
electronically to the municipality all amounts deducted and withheld during the
preceding month.
      (2)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a casino
operator shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator
of the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located,
indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The casino operator shall remit electronically with the annual return any
amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If
the name, address, or social security number of a person or the amount deducted
and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for
that reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual
return.
      (3)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a casino
operator shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom
an amount has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year.
The information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax
deducted from the person's winnings during the preceding year. The casino
operator shall provide to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information
return issued under this division. The administrator may require that such
copies be transmitted electronically.
      (4)   A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the amounts
deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount withheld and
not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and interest
imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax deducted and
withheld.
      (5)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise quits
the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties
and interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor shall
withhold an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the
amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon
until the predecessor casino operator produces either of the following:
         (a)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
         (b)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due. If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the
successor is personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and
withheld and penalties and interest thereon.
      (6)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
   (D)   If a person's prize award from a video lottery terminal is an amount
for which reporting to the internal revenue service is required by section 6041
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent shall
deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person's prize award at the
rate of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the video lottery
terminal facility is located.
   (E)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are held
in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person's name, address, and social security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
      (2)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery sales
agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipality providing the names, addresses, and social security numbers of the
persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount
of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld, and any
other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return, the video
lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax Administrator all
amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
      (3)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all receipts
issued under division (E) of this section and shall make those records
available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with R.C. § 5747.17 and any rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
      (4)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, each video
lottery terminal sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with
the Tax Administrator of the municipal corporation in which the facility is
located indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding
calendar year. The video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with
the annual return any amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not
previously remitted. If the name, address, or social security number of a
person or the amount deducted and withheld with respect to that person was
omitted on a monthly return for that reporting period, that information shall
be indicated on the annual return.
      (5)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a video
lottery sales agent shall issue an information return to each person with
respect to whom an amount has been deducted and withheld during the preceding
calendar year. The information return shall show the total amount of municipal
income tax deducted and withheld from the person's prize award by the video
lottery sales agent during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent
shall provide to the Tax Administrator of the municipal corporation a copy of
each information return issued under this division. The Tax Administrator may
require that such copies be transmitted electronically.
      (6)   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
   (F)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
      (1)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
      (2)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no amounts
are due. If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
   (G)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's prize award does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
   (H)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late, fails
to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late, or fails to remit
amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
      (1)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted and
withheld under this section, a penalty equal to 50% of the tax deducted and
withheld;
      (2)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or annual
return, a penalty of $500 for each return not filed or filed late. Interest
shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld at the rate prescribed
in R.C. § 5703.47.
   (I)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal corporation
shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by the
municipal corporation and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of §
33.07. This division applies only to the person for whom the amount is deducted
and withheld.
   (J)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts and
returns required under this section.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Withholding by casinos and lottery sales agents, see R.C. § 718.031
§ 33.06 INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX.
§ 33.061 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR TAXPAYERS WHO ARE NOT
INDIVIDUALS.
   "Municipal taxable income" for a taxpayer who is not an individual for the
municipality is calculated as follows:
   (A)   "Income" reduced by "exempt income" to the extent otherwise included
in income, multiplied by apportionment, further reduced by any "pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward" equals "municipal taxable income".
      (1)   "Income" for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the "net
profit" of the taxpayer.
         (a)   "Net profit" for a person other than an individual is defined in
§
33.03(C)(23).
         (b)   "Adjusted federal taxable income" is defined in §
33.03(C)(1).
      (2)   "Exempt income" is defined in §
33.03(C)(11).
      (3)   "Apportionment" means the apportionment as determined by §
33.062.
      (4)   "Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward" is defined in §
33.03(C)(32).
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 33.062 NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; ALTERNATIVE
APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in
the municipality unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in the
municipality or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in §
33.061 and division (B) of this section, net profit from a business or
profession conducted both within and without the boundaries of the village
shall be considered as having a taxable situs in the village for purposes of
municipal income taxation in the same proportion as the average ratio of the
following:
      (1)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the village during the taxable period to the average original cost of all of
the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the
business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
      As used in the preceding paragraph, tangible personal or real property
shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such
property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
      (2)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the village to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during
the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession, wherever
the individual's services are performed, excluding compensation from which
taxes are not required to be withheld under § 33.052;
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the village to
total gross receipts of the business or profession during the same period from
sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
   (B)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A) of this
section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer's business activity in
the municipality, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the
municipality may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipality;
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
33.19(A).
      (3)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(1) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
33.19(A).
      (4)   Nothing in division (B) of this section nullifies or otherwise
affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) of this section, "wages, salaries, and
other compensation" includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid
to an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
         (c)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee's presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (2) of this section solely
in order to avoid or reduce the employer's municipal income tax liability. If a
Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Tax
Administrator's determination was unreasonable.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A)(3) of this section, receipts from
sales and rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal
corporation as provided in §
33.045.
   (E)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental of
real estate owned directly by the individual or by a disregarded entity owned
by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal corporation in
which the property generating the net profit is located and the municipal
corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net profit
resides.
   A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use separate
accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under this
division to the municipal corporation in which the property is located.
   (F)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F)(2) of this section,
commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale,
purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation
in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate
agent or broker shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the
ratio of the commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase,
or lease of real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions
received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate everywhere in the
taxable year.
      (2)   An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual's net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual's annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such credit is allowed under §
33.081.
   (G)   If, in computing a taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income, the
taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee's
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under §
33.03(C)(11)(l) and (C)(34)(a)4., by a municipal corporation to which the
taxpayer has apportioned a portion of its net profit, the taxpayer shall add
the amount that is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer's net profit that was
apportioned to that municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer be
required to add to its net profit that was apportioned to that municipal
corporation any amount other than the amount upon which the employee would be
required to pay tax were the amount related to the stock option not exempted
from taxation. This division applies solely for the purpose of making an
adjustment to the amount of a taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to a
municipal corporation under this section.
   (H)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) of this section
for the purposes of that division or division (B) of this section, the owner of
a disregarded entity shall include in the owner's ratios the property, payroll,
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019; Am. Ord.
2023-55, passed 12-4-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Income subject to tax, see R.C. § 718.02
§ 33.0621 ALTERNATIVE NET PROFITS APPORTIONMENT FOR REMOTE EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   QUALIFYING REMOTE EMPLOYEE OR OWNER. An individual who is an
employee of a taxpayer or who is a partner or member holding an ownership
interest in a taxpayer that is treated as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes, provided that the individual meets both of the following criteria:
         (a)   The taxpayer has assigned the individual to a qualifying
reporting location.
         (b)   The individual is permitted or required to perform services for
the taxpayer at a qualifying remote work location.
      (2)   QUALIFYING REMOTE WORK LOCATION. A permanent or temporary location
at which an employee or owner chooses or is required to perform services for
the taxpayer, other than a reporting location of the taxpayer or any other
location owned or controlled by a customer or client of the taxpayer.
QUALIFYING REMOTE WORK LOCATION may include the residence of an employee or
owner and may be located outside of a municipal corporation that imposes an
income tax in accordance with this chapter. An employee or owner may have more
than one qualifying remote work location during a taxable year.
      (3)   REPORTING LOCATION. Either of the following:
         (a)   A permanent or temporary place of doing business, such as an
office, warehouse, storefront, construction site, or similar location, that is
owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the taxpayer;
         (b)   Any location in this state owned or controlled by a customer or
client of the taxpayer, provided that the taxpayer is required to withhold
taxes under §
33.051 on qualifying wages paid to an employee for the performance of personal
services at that location.
      (4)   QUALIFYING REPORTING LOCATION. One of the following:
         (a)   The reporting location in this state at which an employee or
owner performs services for the taxpayer on a regular or periodic basis during
the taxable year;
         (b)   If no reporting location exists in this state for an employee or
owner under division (A)(4)(a) of this section, the reporting location in this
state at which the employee's or owner's supervisor regularly or periodically
reports during the taxable year;
         (c)   If no reporting location exists in this state for an employee or
owner under division (A)(4)(a) or (b) of this section, the location that the
taxpayer otherwise assigns as the employee's or owner's qualifying reporting
location, provided the assignment is made in good faith and is recorded and
maintained in the taxpayer's business records. A taxpayer may change the
qualifying reporting location designated for an employee or owner under this
division at any time.
   (B)   A taxpayer may elect to apply the provisions of this section to the
apportionment of its net profit from a business or profession. For taxpayers
that make this election, the provisions of §
33.062 apply to such apportionment except as otherwise provided in this
section.
      A taxpayer shall make the election allowed under this section in writing
on or with the taxpayer's net profit return or, if applicable, a timely filed
amended net profit return or a timely filed appeal of an assessment. The
election applies to the taxable year for which that return or appeal is filed
and for all subsequent taxable years, until the taxpayer revokes the election.
      The taxpayer shall make the initial election with the tax administrator
of each municipal corporation with which, after applying the apportionment
provisions authorized in this section, the taxpayer is required to file a net
profit tax return for that taxable year. A taxpayer shall not be required to
notify the tax administrator of a municipal corporation in which a qualifying
remote employee's or owner's qualifying remote work location is located, unless
the taxpayer is otherwise required to file a net profit return with that
municipal corporation due to business operations that are unrelated to the
employee's or owner's activity at the qualifying remote work location.
      After the taxpayer makes the initial election, the election applies to
every municipal corporation in which the taxpayer conducts business. The
taxpayer shall not be required to file a net profit return with a municipal
corporation solely because a qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying
remote work location is located in such municipal corporation.
      Nothing in this section prohibits a taxpayer from making a new election
under this section after properly revoking a prior election.
   (C)   For the purpose of calculating the ratios described in division (A) of
§
33.062, all of the following apply to a taxpayer that has made the election
described in division (B) of this section:
      (1)   For the purpose of division (A)(1) of §
33.062, the average original cost of any tangible personal property used by a
qualifying remote employee or owner at that individual's qualifying remote work
location shall be sitused to that individual's qualifying reporting location.
      (2)   For the purpose of division (A)(2) of §
33.062, any wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to a qualifying remote employee or owner for services performed at that
individual's qualifying remote work location shall be sitused to that
individual's qualifying reporting location.
      (3)   For the purpose of division (A)(3) of §
33.062, and notwithstanding division (D) of that section, any gross receipts of
the business or profession from services performed during the taxable period by
a qualifying remote employee or owner for services performed at that
individual's qualifying remote work location shall be sitused to that
individual's qualifying reporting location.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prevents a taxpayer from requesting, or a tax
administrator from requiring, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or a
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method as
described in division (B) of §
33.062. However, a tax administrator shall not require an alternative
apportionment method in such a manner that it would require a taxpayer to file
a net profit return with a municipal corporation solely because a qualifying
remote employee's or owner's qualifying remote work location is located in that
municipal corporation.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, nothing in this section
is intended to affect the withholding of taxes on qualifying wages pursuant to
§§
33.051 and
33.052 herein.
(Ord. 2023-55, passed 12-4-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Alternative net profits apportionment for remote employees, see R.C. §
718.021
§ 33.063 CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Affiliated group of corporations" means an affiliated group as
defined in section 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a
group includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   "Consolidated federal income tax return" means a consolidated
return filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 1501 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
      (3)   "Consolidated federal taxable income" means the consolidated
taxable income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the
purposes of filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before
consideration of net operating losses or special deductions. "Consolidated
federal taxable income" does not include income or loss of an incumbent local
exchange carrier that is excluded from the affiliated group under division (A)
(1) of this section.
      (4)   "Incumbent local exchange carrier" has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4927.01.
      (5)   "Local exchange telephone service" has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5727.01.
   (B)   (1)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of
corporations may elect to file a consolidated tax return for a taxable year if
at least one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to
municipal income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of
corporations filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to
that taxable year. The election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the
reporting method is required under federal law. The election continues to be
binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing consolidated tax returns under division (B)(2) of this
section or a taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Commissioner. The Tax
Commissioner shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated tax returns under
this section must be made on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of
the year following the last year of a five-year consolidated tax return
election period in effect under division (B)(1) of this section. The election
to discontinue filing a consolidated tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (B)(1) or (2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
      (4)   When a taxpayer makes the election allowed under §
33.07, a valid election made by the taxpayer under §
33.063(B)(1) or (2) is binding upon the Tax Commissioner for the remainder of
the five-year period.
      (5)   When an election made under §
33.07 is terminated, a valid election made under this section is binding upon
the Tax Administrator for the remainder of the five-year period.
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated tax return for that taxable year if the Tax Commissioner
determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that intercompany transactions
have not been conducted at arm's length and that there has been a distortive
shifting of income or expenses with regard to allocation of net profits to a
municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is required to file a consolidated tax
return for a taxable year shall file a consolidated tax return for all
subsequent taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written
permission from the Commissioner to file a separate return or a taxpayer has
experienced a change in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated tax return in the same manner
as is required under the United States Department of Treasury regulations that
prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated federal income tax
return required to be filed by the common parent of the affiliated group of
which the taxpayer is a member.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (3), and (4)
of this section, corporations that file a consolidated tax return shall compute
adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
33.03(C)(2), by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income" for "federal
taxable income" wherever "federal taxable income" appears in that division and
by substituting "an affiliated group of corporation's" for "a C corporation's"
wherever "a C corporation's" appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated tax return shall make any
adjustment otherwise required under §
33.03(C)(2) to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise
subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated tax return shall do one of the following with
respect to that pass-through entity's net profit or loss for that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
33.045, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity's net profit or loss is so excluded, the
entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity's net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
33.045, include the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity's net profit or loss is so included, the
entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of
the entity's net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated tax return shall exclude
the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the consolidated federal
taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the purposes of making the
computations required in §
33.045, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation;
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with §§
33.05 to
33.07 on the basis of the entity's net profits that would otherwise be included
in the consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated tax return shall make the
computations required under §
33.045 by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income attributable to"
for "net profit from" wherever "net profit from" appears in that section and by
substituting "affiliated group of corporations" for "taxpayer" wherever
"taxpayer" appears in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated tax return is jointly and
severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges, or other
amounts applicable under §§
33.05 to
33.07 or R.C. Chapter 5703 to the corporation, an affiliated group of which the
corporation is a member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more
members of such an affiliated group.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 33.064 TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESSES THAT FOSTER NEW JOBS IN OHIO.
   The municipality, by Ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the
municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured
as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the municipality derives from new
employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term not exceeding fifteen years.
Before the municipality passes an ordinance granting a credit, the municipality
and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of
the credit.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs in Ohio, see R.C. § 718.15
§ 33.065 TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION.
   The municipality, by Ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of fostering job
retention in the municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it
shall be measured as a percentage of the income tax revenue the municipality
derives from the retained employees of the taxpayer, and shall be for a term
not exceeding 15 years. Before the municipality passes an ordinance allowing
such a credit, the municipality and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement
specifying all the conditions of the credit.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Tax credits to foster job retention, see R.C. § 718.151
§ 33.07 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Combined tax liability" means the total amount of a taxpayer's
income tax liabilities to all municipal corporations in this state for a
taxable year.
      (2)   "Estimated taxes" means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer's combined tax liability for the current taxable
year.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) of this section, every
taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for the current taxable
year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Commissioner, if the amount payable as
estimated taxes is at least $200.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) of this section, a taxpayer
having a taxable year of less than 12 months shall make a declaration under
rules prescribed by the Commissioner.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of the taxable year or on
or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the taxpayer becomes
subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   The Tax Commissioner may waive the requirement for filing a
declaration of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that
the waiver is reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other
factors.
   (C)   Each taxpayer shall file the declaration of estimated taxes with, and
remit estimated taxes to, the Tax Commissioner at the times and in the amounts
prescribed in division (C)(1) of this section. Remitted taxes shall be made
payable to the municipality.
      (1)   The required portion of the combined tax liability for the taxable
year that shall be paid through estimated taxes shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the combined tax liability for the
taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 45% of the combined tax liability for the
taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 67.5% of the combined tax liability for the
taxable year;
         (d)   On or before the fifteenth day of the twelfth month of the
taxable year, 90% of the combined tax liability for the taxable year. For tax
years beginning on or before January 1, 2018, and only for an individual, on or
before the fifteenth day of the first month of the following tax year, 90% of
the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   If the taxpayer determines that its declaration of estimated taxes
will not accurately reflect the taxpayer's tax liability for the taxable year,
the taxpayer shall increase or decrease, as appropriate, its subsequent
payments in equal installments to result in a more accurate payment of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   (a)   Each taxpayer shall report on the declaration of estimated
taxes the portion of the remittance that the taxpayer estimates that it owes to
each municipal corporation for the taxable year.
         (b)   Upon receiving a payment of estimated taxes under this section,
the Commissioner shall immediately forward the payment to the municipality. The
municipality shall credit the payment in the same manner as in R.C. § 718.85
(B).
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of estimated taxes, there shall
be added to the taxes an amount determined at the rate per annum prescribed by
R.C. § 5703.47 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment,
unless the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E)
of this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed
for that payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed
for that payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed
for that payment;
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed
for that payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently due.
         (3)   All amounts collected under this section shall be considered as
taxes collected under §§
33.05 to
33.07 and shall be credited and distributed to municipal corporations in
accordance with R.C. § 718.83.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of a combined tax liability shall be
due to reasonable cause and the penalty imposed by this section shall not be
added to the taxes for the taxable year if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the combined tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by
annualizing the income received during the year up to the end of the month
immediately preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a municipal income tax return for
that year.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Estimated taxes, see R.C. § 718.08
§ 33.08 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID.
§ 33.081 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPAL CORPORATION.
   (A)   Where a resident taxpayer of the municipality is subject to a
municipal income tax in another taxing municipal corporation he or she shall
not pay a total municipal income tax on the same income greater than the tax
imposed at the higher rate.
   (B)   Every individual taxpayer who resides in the municipality who receives
municipal taxable income for work done or services performed or rendered
outside the municipality, or who receives other municipal taxable income from
sources outside the municipality, if it be made to appear that he or she has
paid a municipal income tax on such municipal taxable income to another taxing
municipal corporation, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed by
this chapter of the amount so paid by him or her or in his or her behalf to the
other taxing municipal corporation. The credit shall be allowed in an amount
equal to the lessor of:
      (1)   The amount of such tax paid to such other taxing municipal
corporation; or
      (2)   The tax assessed by this chapter on such municipal taxable income
earned or derived in such other taxing municipal corporation or municipal
corporations where such tax is paid. In no case shall the credit exceed the tax
levied under this chapter on the resident taxpayer's municipal taxable income
that is also subject to tax in another taxing municipal corporation.
   (C)   (1)   A resident taxpayer who is an owner of a disregarded entity that
does not conduct business in the municipality and that has paid, or has
acknowledged liability for, an income tax in another taxing municipal
corporation, may claim a credit equal to the lesser of the following amounts:
         (a)   The taxpayer's proportionate share of the amount, if any, of
municipal income tax paid by the disregarded entity to another taxing municipal
corporation in the State of Ohio; or
         (b)   The taxpayer's proportionate share of the amount of municipal
income tax that would be imposed on the disregarded entity if the disregarded
entity conducted business in the municipality.
      (2)   In no case shall the credit authorized by this division (C) exceed
income tax assessed under this chapter.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 33.082 REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Nonqualified deferred compensation plan" means a compensation plan
described in section 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this section,
"qualifying loss" means the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation
the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan over the total amount of income the taxpayer has recognized
for federal income tax purposes for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as
compensation with respect to the taxpayer's receipt of money and property
attributable to distributions in connection with the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
         (b)   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid to
one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount of
compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the "qualifying loss" is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division (A)(2)(a) of this
section computed without regard to division (A)(2)(b) of this section and a
fraction the numerator of which is the portion of such compensation on which
the taxpayer has paid income tax to one or more municipal corporations and the
denominator of which is the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   "Qualifying tax rate" means the applicable tax rate for the taxable
year for the which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with
respect to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the "qualifying tax rate"
is a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall
be based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect
to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a refundable
credit shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a municipal
corporation for each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during the taxable
year. The amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying
loss and the qualifying tax rate.
      (2)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section from
each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable
years.
      (3)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal corporation
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the amount
of the credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation shall
be calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation's proportionate share
of the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (4)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of this section, municipal corporation income tax
that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
   (D)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer's qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee's failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer's terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Refundable credit allowed against income tax imposed by municipal
corporation for each qualifying loss sustained by taxpayer, see R.C. § 718.021
§ 33.083 CREDIT FOR PERSON WORKING IN JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT OR
ZONE.
   A municipality shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a resident
of the municipality who works in a joint economic development zone created
under R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development district created under
R.C. §§ 715.70, 715.71, or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a credit
against its tax on income to its residents who are employed in another
municipal corporation, pursuant to § 33.081.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Tax credit to person who works in joint economic development zone or
district, see R.C. § 718.16
§ 33.084 CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the municipality, but
should have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is
allowable by the municipality as a refund, but is subject to the three-year
limitation on refunds as provided in §
33.096.
   (B)   Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the
municipality, but was deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall
be subject to collection and recovery by the municipality. To the extent a
refund of such tax or withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as
provided in §
33.096, the municipality will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the tax or
withholding paid to the other municipality against the income tax the
municipality claims is due. If the municipality's tax rate is higher, the tax
representing the net difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection
by the municipality, along with any penalty and interest accruing during the
period of nonpayment.
   (C)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three-year
limitation for refunding of same as provided in §
33.096.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires a municipality to allow credit for
tax paid to another municipal corporation if the municipality has reduced
credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation. Section
33.081 regarding any limitation on credit shall prevail.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Second municipality imposing tax after time period allowed for refund, see
R.C. § 718.121
§ 33.085 CREDITS.
   (A)   A credit, granted by resolution or ordinance of the village shall be
available to a taxpayer that has made the election allowed under §
33.044, against the municipal corporation's tax on income. A municipal
corporation shall submit the following information to the Tax Commissioner on
or before the later of January 31, 2018, or the thirty-first day of January of
the first year in which the taxpayer is eligible to receive the credit:
      (1)   A copy of the agreement entered into by the village and taxpayer;
      (2)   A copy of the ordinance or resolution authorizing the agreement
entered into between the village and the taxpayer.
   (B)   (1)   Each taxpayer that claims a credit shall submit, with the
taxpayer's tax return, documentation issued by the village granting the credit
that confirms the eligibility of the taxpayer for the credit, the amount of the
credit for which the taxpayer is eligible, and the tax year to which the credit
is to be applied.
      (2)   Such documentation shall be provided in the form prescribed by the
Tax Commissioner.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize the Tax
Commissioner to enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to grant a credit, to
determine if a taxpayer meets the conditions of a tax credit agreement entered
into by the village and, or to modify the terms or conditions of any such
existing agreement.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 33.09 ANNUAL RETURN.
   (A)   (1)   For each taxable year, every taxpayer shall file an annual
return. Such return, along with the amount of tax shown to be due on the return
less the amount paid for the taxable year under §
33.06, shall be submitted to the Tax Commissioner, on a form and in the manner
prescribed by the Commissioner, on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth
month following the end of the taxpayer's taxable year.
      (2)   If a taxpayer has multiple taxable years ending within one calendar
year, the taxpayer shall aggregate the facts and figures necessary to compute
the tax due under this chapter, in accordance with all applicable sections of
the Codified Ordinances onto its annual return.
      (3)   The remittance shall be made payable to the municipality and in the
form prescribed by the Tax Commissioner. If the amount payable with the tax
return is $10 or less, no remittance is required.
   (B)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer's duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer's identification number. Each return shall be verified by a
declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   (a)   The Tax Commissioner may require a taxpayer to include, with
each annual tax return, amended return, or request for refund filed with the
Commissioner under §§
33.03 through
33.07, copies of any relevant documents or other information.
         (b)   A taxpayer that files an annual tax return electronically
through the Ohio Business Gateway or in another manner as prescribed by the Tax
Commissioner shall either submit the documents required under this division
electronically as prescribed at the time of filing or, if electronic submission
is not available, mail the documents to the Tax Commissioner. The Department of
Taxation shall publish a method of electronically submitting the documents
required under this division on or before January 1, 2019.
      (3)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Commissioner may
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required to determine and verify the taxpayer's municipal income tax.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic
extension for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a tax return with the
Commissioner under this section. The extended due date of the return shall be
the fifteenth day of the tenth month after the last day of the taxable year to
which the return relates.
         (b)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may request that
the commissioner grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for
filing the taxpayer's municipal income tax return. If the Commissioner receives
the request on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due, the
Commissioner shall grant the taxpayer's extension request.
         (c)   An extension of time to file under division (D)(1) of this
section is not an extension of the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax
Commissioner grants an extension of that date.
      (2)   If the Commissioner considers it necessary in order to ensure
payment of a tax imposed in accordance with §§
33.01 et seq., the Commissioner may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
   (E)   Each return required to be filed in accordance with this section shall
include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize another person,
including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to communicate with
the Tax Commissioner about matters pertaining to the return. The return or
instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by checking the box
the taxpayer authorizes the Commissioner to contact the preparer or other
person concerning questions that arise during the examination or other review
of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only to provide the
Commissioner with information that is missing from the return, to contact the
Commissioner for information about the examination or other review of the
return or the status of the taxpayer's refund or payments, and to respond to
notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or return preparation that the
taxpayer has received from the Commissioner and has shown to the preparer or
other person.
   (F)   When income tax returns or other documents require the signature of a
tax return preparer, the Tax Commissioner shall accept a facsimile or
electronic version of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 33.091 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
municipal taxable income by the municipality shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer located in the municipality under §
33.051(C) when the nonresident individual taxpayer's sole income subject to the
tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, and no additional tax is due to the municipality.
      (3)   All resident individual taxpayers within Archbold Corporation
Limits, 18-years of age or older, shall file an annual municipal income tax
return with the municipality, regardless of income or liability unless exempted
from filing by the Income Tax Commissioner. A written exemption shall be
approved when the taxpayer's sole income is derived from pension, social
security benefits, or disability benefits. This exemption shall be in effect
until such time as the taxpayer receives municipal taxable income in Archbold.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent's executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the municipality in accordance with this chapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual's duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person
charged with the care of the person or property of that individual shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the duly authorized
agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the fiduciary.
   (E)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer's duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer's social security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with each
annual return, amended return, or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer's Internal
Revenue Service form W-2, "Wage and Tax Statements," including all information
reported on the taxpayer's federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service
form 1040 or, in the case of a return or request required by a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio IT 1040; and, with respect to an amended tax return
or refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund
request or the adjustments made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer
who files the annual return required by this section electronically is not
required to provide paper copies of any of the foregoing to the Tax
Administrator unless the Tax Administrator requests such copies after the
return has been filed.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include, with
each annual net profit return, amended net profit return, or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form 1065, form 1120, form 1120-
REIT, form 1120F, or form 1120S, and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
      (4)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division to the Tax
Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is available,
submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or a
portal provided by municipality. The Department of Taxation shall publish a
method of electronically submitting the documents required under this division
through the Ohio Business Gateway on or before January 1, 2016. The Department
shall transmit all documents submitted electronically under this division to
the appropriate Tax Administrator.
      (5)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer's
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under division (F) of
this section apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form
or on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (6)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns, or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses, or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under R.C. §
5747.08(G). The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms
prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with
remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax Administrator.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer
that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax
Administrator on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
end of the taxpayer's taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall complete and
file the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on
generic forms, together with remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax
Administrator.
         (c)   In the case of individual income tax return required to be filed
by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed by a
taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is $10 or less.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the municipality in accordance with this
chapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (3)   With respect to taxpayers to whom §
33.092 applies, to the extent that any provision in this division conflicts
with any provision in §
33.092, the provision in §
33.092 prevails.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the municipality shall
not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the amount
due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the municipality for a
taxable year pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section shall file with the
municipality an annual net profit return under division (F)(3) and (4) of this
section.
   (I)   This division shall not apply to payments required to be made under §
33.051(B)(1)(b).
      (1)   If any report, claim, statement, or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this chapter is delivered after that period or
that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement, or other document is required to be filed, or to
which the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on
the cover in which the report, claim, statement, or other document, or payment
is mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment.
"The date of postmark" means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds transfer,
the payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to an account
designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments, except
that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. For purposes of this
section, "submitted the payment" means the date which the taxpayer has
designated for the delivery of payment, which may or may not be the same date
as the date the payment was initiated by the taxpayer.
   (J)   The amounts withheld for the municipality by an employer, the agent of
an employer, or other payer as described in §
33.051 shall be allowed to the recipient of the compensation as credits against
payment of the tax imposed on the recipient unless the amounts withheld were
not remitted to the municipality and the recipient colluded with the employer,
agent, or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the amounts
withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by the municipality to be filed in accordance
with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer's refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of
another person to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters
pertaining to the return does not preclude the Tax Administrator from
contacting the taxpayer regarding such matters.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator of the municipality shall accept for filing a
generic form of any income tax return, report, or document required by the
municipality in accordance with this chapter, provided that the generic form,
once completed and filed, contains all of the information required by
ordinances, resolutions, or rules adopted by the municipality or Tax
Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the
generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this chapter and of the
municipality's ordinance or resolution governing the filing of returns,
reports, or documents.
   (M)   When income tax returns, reports, or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (N)   (1)   As used in this division, "worksite location" has the same
meaning as in §
33.052.
      (2)   A person may notify a Tax Administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply:
         (a)   The person was required to file a tax return with the municipal
corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services at a worksite location within the municipal corporation, and
the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and remitted all
applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this chapter. The
Tax Administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a taxpayer who
has not complied with the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation's
income tax for the taxable year. The person shall provide the notice in a
signed affidavit that briefly explains the person's circumstances, including
the location of the previous worksite location and the last date on which the
person performed services or made any sales within the municipal corporation.
The affidavit also shall include the following statement: "The affiant has no
plans to perform any services within the municipal corporation, make any sales
in the municipal corporation, or otherwise become subject to the tax levied by
the municipal corporation during the taxable year. If the affiant does become
subject to the tax levied by the municipal corporation for the taxable year,
the affiant agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly register as a
taxpayer with the municipal corporation, if such a registration is required by
the municipal corporation's resolutions, ordinances, or rules." The person
shall sign the affidavit under penalty of perjury.
         (c)   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (N)(2) of
this section, the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file any
tax return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses
information that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described
in the affidavit change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results
in work being performed, services provided, sales made, or other activity that
results in municipal taxable income reportable to the municipality in the
taxable year. It shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to comply with the
provisions of this chapter relating to the reporting and filing of municipal
taxable income on an annual municipal income tax return, even if an affidavit
has been filed with the Tax Administrator for the taxable year. Nothing in
division (N) of this section prohibits the Tax Administrator from performing an
audit of the person.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019; Am. Ord
2019-49, passed 10-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Annual return; filing, see R.C. § 718.05
§ 33.092 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN COMBAT ZONE.
   (A)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the
municipality for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter during the period of the member's or civilian's
duty service and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be filed on or
before the one hundred eightieth day after the member's or civilian's duty
terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator
considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one hundred eighty-first day after the
applicant's active duty or service terminates. Except as provided in division
(B)(3) of this section, the Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms
as the Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report, or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the municipality before the one hundred eighty-first day after
the applicant's active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (B)
(1) of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require
any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in this
division the application of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of time in
which to make any payment of taxes required by the municipality in accordance
with this chapter. The length of any extension granted under division (C)(2)(a)
of this section shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension
that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
section, "qualifying taxpayer" means a member of the national guard or a member
of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to
active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces.
         (b)   Taxes the payment of which is extended in accordance with
division (C)(2)(a) of this section are not delinquent during the extension
period. Such taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of
the extension period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax
Administrator shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in
connection with those taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator
shall not include any period of extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) of
this section in calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (D)   For each taxable year to which division (A), (B), or (C) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (B)(2) and (3) or
(C) of this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the
filing status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that
year.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Extension for service in or for the armed forces, see R.C. § 718.052
§ 33.093 USE OF OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer's net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return or, estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (B)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (C)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
   (D)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers, or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The State of Ohio shall not be a
party to the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a
municipal income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing the
authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit, and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Filings by business or profession; estimated return; extension, see R.C. §
718.051
§ 33.0931 ELECTRONIC FILING FOR PARTIES MAKING ELECTION.
   (A)   All taxpayers that have made the election allowed under §
33.044 shall file any tax return or extension for filing a tax return, and
shall make payment of amounts shown to be due on such returns, electronically,
either through the Ohio Business Gateway or in another manner as prescribed by
the Tax Commissioner.
   (B)   A taxpayer may apply to the Commissioner, on a form prescribed by the
Commissioner, to be excused from the requirement to file returns and make
payments electronically. For good cause shown, the Commissioner may excuse the
applicant from the requirement and permit the applicant to file the returns or
make the payments by nonelectronic means.
   (C)   The Tax Commissioner may adopt rules establishing the following:
      (1)   The format of documents to be used by taxpayers to file returns and
make payments by electronic means;
      (2)   The information taxpayers must submit when filing tax returns by
electronic means.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 33.094 EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE.
   (A)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return shall automatically receive
an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due
date of the municipal income tax return for a taxpayer that is an individual
shall be the fifteenth day of the tenth month after the last day of the taxable
year to which the return relates. The extended due date of the municipal income
tax return for a taxpayer that is not an individual shall be the fifteenth day
of the eleventh month after the last day of the taxable year to which the
return relates.
   (B)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may request that the tax
administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer's municipal income tax return. If the request is received by the
tax administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the tax administrator shall grant the taxpayer's requested extension.
   (C)   An extension of time to file under this section is not an extension of
the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an extension of
that date.
   (D)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under division (G) of R.C. § 5747.08, a
taxpayer shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
   (E)   If the tax administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure the
payment of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in accordance with this
chapter, the tax administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
   (F)   If a taxpayer receives an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return under this section, the tax administrator shall not make any
inquiry or send any notice to the taxpayer with regard to the return on or
before the date the taxpayer files the return or on or before the extended due
date to file the return, whichever occurs first.
      If a tax administrator violates division (F) of this section, the
municipal corporation shall reimburse the taxpayer for any reasonable costs
incurred to respond to such inquiry or notice, up to $150.
      Division (F) of this section does not apply to an extension received
under division (A) or (B) of this section if the tax administrator has actual
knowledge that the taxpayer failed to file for a federal extension as required
to receive the extension under division (A) of this section or failed to file
for an extension under division (B) of this section.
   (G)   To the extent that any provision in this division conflicts with any
provision in §
33.092, the provision in that section prevails.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019; Am. Ord.
2023-55, passed 12-4-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Annual return; filing, see R.C. § 718.05
§ 33.095 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   If any of the facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in
an annual return filed by a taxpayer that has made the election allowed under §
33.044 and used to determine the tax due under §§
33.05 to
33.07 must be altered as the result of an adjustment to the taxpayer's federal
income tax return, whether initiated by the taxpayer or the internal revenue
service, and such alteration affects the taxpayer's tax liability under those
sections, the taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax Commissioner
in such form as the Commissioner requires. The amended return shall be filed
not later than 60 days after the adjustment is agreed upon or finally
determined for federal income tax purposes or after any federal income tax
deficiency or refund, or the abatement or credit resulting therefrom, has been
assessed or paid, whichever occurs first. If a taxpayer intends to file an
amended consolidated municipal income tax return, or to amend its type of
return from a separate return to a consolidated return, based on the taxpayer's
consolidated federal income tax return, the taxpayer shall notify the
Commissioner before filing the amended return.
   (B)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. An amended return required by this section is a
return subject to assessment under §
33.17 for the purpose of assessing any additional tax due under this section,
together with any applicable penalty and interest. The amended return shall not
reopen those facts, figures, computations, or attachments from a previously
filed return no longer subject to assessment that are not affected, either
directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer's federal tax return.
   (C)   In the case of an overpayment, an application for refund may be filed
under this division within the 60-day period prescribed for filing the amended
return, even if that period extends beyond the period prescribed in §
33.97, if the application otherwise conforms to the requirements of that
section. An application filed under this division shall claim refund of
overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts, figures,
computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer's
federal income tax return unless it is also filed within the time prescribed in
§
33.97. The application shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations, or
attachments that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the
adjustment to the taxpayer's federal income tax return.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Amended returns, see R.C. § 718.41
   Limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 33.096 REFUNDS.
   (A)   An application to refund to a taxpayer the amount of taxes paid on any
illegal, erroneous, or excessive payment of tax under §§
33.05 to
33.07, including assessments, shall be filed with the Tax Commissioner within
three years after the date of the illegal, erroneous, or excessive payment of
the tax, or within any additional period allowed by §
33.17(A). The application shall be filed in the form prescribed by the Tax
Commissioner.
   (B)   (1)   On the filing of a refund application, the Tax Commissioner
shall determine the amount of refund to which the applicant is entitled. The
amount determined shall be based on the amount overpaid per return or
assessment. If the amount is greater than $10 and not less than that claimed,
the Commissioner shall certify that amount to the municipality for payment from
the tax refund fund created in R.C. § 5703.052. If the amount is greater than
$10 but less than that claimed, the Commissioner shall proceed in accordance
with R.C. § 5703.70.
      (2)   Upon issuance of a refund under this section, the Commissioner
shall notify each municipal corporation of the amount refunded to the taxpayer
attributable to that municipal corporation, which shall be deducted from the
municipal corporation's next distribution under R.C. § 718.83.
   (C)   Any portion of a refund determined under division (B) of this section
that is not issued within 90 days after such determination shall bear interest
at the rate per annum prescribed by R.C. § 5703.47 from the ninety-first day
after such determination until the day the refund is paid or credited. On an
illegal or erroneous assessment, interest shall be paid at that rate from the
date of payment on the illegal or erroneous assessment until the day the refund
is paid or credited.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Requests for refunds, see R.C. § 718.19
§ 33.10 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES, AND CHARGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Applicable law" means this chapter, the resolutions, ordinances,
codes, directives, instructions, and rules adopted by the municipality provided
such resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives, instructions, and rules impose
or directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance, or filing
requirements of a municipal income tax.
      (2)   "Federal short-term rate" means the rate of the average market
yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining
periods to maturity of three years or less, as determined under section 1274 of
the Internal Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      (3)   "Income tax," "estimated income tax," and "withholding tax" mean
any income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax imposed by a
municipal corporation pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before
January 1, 2016.
      (4)   "Interest rate as described in division (A) of this section" means
the federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number per cent, plus
5%. The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the
year in which the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with
division (A)(2) of this section.
      (5)   "Return" includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule,
and other document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal
corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (6)   "Unpaid estimated income tax" means estimated income tax due but
not paid by the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (7)   "Unpaid income tax" means income tax due but not paid by the date
the income tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (8)   "Unpaid withholding tax" means withholding tax due but not paid by
the date the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (9)   "Withholding tax" includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee's qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent, or other payer is required to withhold from an employee's qualifying
wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall apply to the following
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016;
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required
to be paid or remitted to the municipality on or after January 1, 2016 for
taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016 of
this municipality.
   (C)   The municipality shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, and any other payer, and will attempt to collect, the interest
amounts and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer, or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or
in part, to make to the municipality timely and full payment or remittance of
income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file timely with the
municipality any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as "interest rate as
described in division (A) of this section", per annum, on all unpaid income
tax, unpaid estimated income tax, and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition
of interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (3)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty equal to 50%
of the amount not timely paid may be imposed.
      (4)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
the village may impose a penalty not exceeding $25 for each failure to timely
file each return, regardless of the liability shown thereon, except that the
village shall abate or refund the penalty assessed on a taxpayer's first
failure to timely file a return after the taxpayer files that return.
   (D)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the municipality shall not impose, seek to collect, or
collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees not
described in this section.
   (E)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the municipality shall not refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges, or additional fees that were properly imposed or
collected before January 1, 2016.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator's sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement.
   (G)   The municipality may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, or any other payer the municipality's post-judgment collection
costs and fees, including attorney's fees.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019; Am. Ord.
2023-55, passed 12-4-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Interest and penalties, see R.C. § 718.27
§ 33.11 AUDIT.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in §
33.03(C)(3), the Tax Administrator shall provide to the taxpayer a written
description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the taxpayer during an
audit and a statement of the taxpayer's rights, including any right to obtain a
refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the
Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to
have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is
entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper,
or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a form by
which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person conducting
an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the taxpayer's
attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner. This division does
not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer's case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Audits, see R.C. § 718.36
§ 33.12 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher, or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
fifty cents shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part
of a dollar that is less than fifty cents shall be dropped, rounding down to
the nearest whole dollar. If a person chooses to round amounts entered on a
document, the person shall round all amounts entered on the document.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Rounding of amounts, see R.C. § 718.25
§ 33.13 AUTHORITY AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
§ 33.131 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties and functions
necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this chapter,
including without limitation:
   (A)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents, and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; provided that the powers
referred to in this division of this section shall be exercised by the Tax
Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation
income tax ordinance or resolution adopted in accordance with this chapter;
   (B)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
   (C)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (D)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator's findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer's assigns, or legal representative as provided in this chapter;
   (E)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (F)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
33.062;
   (G)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator's own
motion, review, redetermine, or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, redetermine, or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment or order which the Tax Administrator has
made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by
the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
   (H)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law;
   (I)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
33.051.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Tax Administrator, see R.C. § 718.24
§ 33.132 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT OVER
TIME.
   (A)   As used in this section, "claim" means a claim for an amount payable
to the municipality that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action is
in the best interests of the municipality:
      (1)   Compromise a claim;
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator's rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   (1)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment-over-time agreement.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide detailed
financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether or not a
payment-over-time agreement will be authorized. The taxpayer's failure to
provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator shall
preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Administration of claims, see R.C. § 718.28
§ 33.133 EXAMINATION OF RECORDS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS AND PERSONS.
   (A)   The Tax Commissioner, or any authorized agent or employee thereof, may
examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any taxpayer or other person that is subject to §§
33.05 to
33.07 for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no
return was filed, to ascertain the tax due as required under those sections.
Upon written request by the Commissioner or a duly authorized agent or employee
thereof, every taxpayer or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the commissioner, authorized agent, or employee to
investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal and state
income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the request.
   (B)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer or other person that
is subject to §§
33.05 to
33.07 shall be open to the Tax Commissioner's inspection during business hours
and shall be preserved for a period of six years following the end of the
taxable year to which the records or documents relate, unless the Commissioner,
in writing, consents to their destruction within that period, or by order
requires that they be kept longer. The Commissioner may require any person, by
notice served on that person, to keep such records as the Commissioner
determines necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the
extent of such liability, for the income tax levied by a municipal corporation.
   (C)   The Tax Commissioner may examine under oath any person that the
Commissioner reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Commissioner may, for this purpose, compel any such person to
attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers, records, and
federal income tax returns in such person's possession or control. The person
may be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other
tax practitioner at any such hearing or examination. This division does not
authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an attorney.
   (D)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Commissioner compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal income tax returns under this section shall fail to comply.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Verification of accuracy of returns, see R.C. § 718.23
§ 33.134 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person's social security number, federal employer identification
number, or other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A
person required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information
that has experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax
document requiring the identifying information.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
33.10, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
33.99.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (A) of this section
within 30 days after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying
information, nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
imposing a penalty pursuant to §
33.10.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under divisions (B)(1) and (2) of this
section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee with
respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition to
any applicable criminal penalties described in §
33.99 for a violation of §
33.15, and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Identification information, see R.C. § 718.26
§ 33.14 INFORMATION PROVIDED TO TAX ADMINISTRATORS; CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by §§
33.01 et seq. is confidential, and no person shall disclose such information,
except for official purposes, in accordance with a proper judicial order, or as
provided in R.C. §§ 4123.271 or 5703.21. The Tax Commissioner may furnish the
internal revenue service with copies of returns filed. This section does not
prohibit the publication of statistics in a form which does not disclose
information with respect to particular taxpayers.
   (B)   In May and November of each year, the Tax Commissioner shall provide
the Village Tax Administrator with the following information for every taxpayer
that filed tax returns with the Commissioner under §§
33.05 to
33.07 and that had municipal taxable income apportionable to the village under
this chapter for any prior year:
      (1)   The taxpayer's name, address, and federal employer identification
number;
      (2)   The taxpayer's apportionment ratio for, and amount of municipal
taxable income apportionable to, the village pursuant to §
33.03;
      (3)   The amount of any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward utilized
by the taxpayer;
      (4)   Whether the taxpayer requested that any overpayment be carried
forward to a future taxable year;
      (5)   The amount of any credit claimed under R.C. § 718.94.
   (C)   Not later than 30 days after each distribution made to municipal
corporations under R.C. § 718.83, the Tax Commissioner shall provide to the
village a report stating the name and federal identification number of every
taxpayer that made estimated payments that are attributable to the village and
the amount of each such taxpayer's estimated payment.
   (D)   The information described under divisions (B) and (C) of this section
shall be provided to the individual or individuals designated by the Village
Tax Administrator under R.C. § 718.83(D).
   (E)   (1)   The village expects that the Tax Commissioner will, pursuant to
R.C. § 718.84(E), provide tax returns and other information it receives in the
performance of its administration of the municipal net profits tax for
taxpayers making the election provided in §
33.044. The Tax Administrator shall review these returns and information, as
well as the information received pursuant to divisions (B) and (C) of this
section, and has discretion to refer any taxpayer for audit by the Tax
Commissioner. Such referral shall be made on a form prescribed by the
Commissioner and shall include any information that forms the basis for the
referral.
      (2)   If the Tax Commissioner declines to audit a taxpayer referred by
the Tax Administrator under this section, the village reserves its right to
pursue any and all remedies, whether at law or in equity, to ensure that the
correct tax liability has been calculated and paid by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 33.15 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid, or assist in the preparation
or presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure,
counsel, or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return,
schedule, statement, claim, or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend,
or knowingly procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration, or amendment
of the records upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim, or
document is based with intent to defraud the municipality or the Tax
Administrator.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Fraud, see R.C. § 718.35
§ 33.16 OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An "opinion of the Tax Administrator" means an opinion issued under
this section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It
does not include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income, or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an "opinion of the Tax Administrator" and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (C), (G), and (H) of this
section, provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer's request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity, or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location, or other pertinent facts.
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator's response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an "opinion of the Tax Administrator."
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty, or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator's opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer's date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law, or the municipality's
income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and
conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law, or the municipality's income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer's material facts
or circumstances;
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)   If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or
omitted material facts with intent to defraud the municipality in order to
obtain a more favorable opinion, the taxpayer may be in violation of §
33.15.
   (E)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (G)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under subsection (F) may not be appealed.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Request for opinion of the Tax Administrator, see R.C. § 718.38
§ 33.17 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   If any taxpayer required to file a return under §§
33.05 to
33.07 fails to file the return within the time prescribed, files an incorrect
return, or fails to remit the full amount of the tax due for the period covered
by the return, the Tax Commissioner may make an assessment against the taxpayer
for any deficiency for the period for which the return or tax is due, based
upon any information in the Commissioner's possession.
   The Tax Commissioner shall not make or issue an assessment against a
taxpayer more than three years after the later of the date the return subject
to assessment was required to be filed or the date the return was filed. Such
time limit may be extended if both the taxpayer and the Commissioner consent in
writing to the extension. Any such extension shall extend the three-year time
limit in §
33.97 for the same period of time. There shall be no bar or limit to an
assessment against a taxpayer that fails to file a return subject to assessment
as required by §§
33.05 to
33.07, or that files a fraudulent return. The Commissioner shall give the
taxpayer assessed written notice of the assessment as provided in R.C. §
5703.37. With the notice, the Commissioner shall provide instructions on how to
petition for reassessment and request a hearing on the petition.
   (B)   Unless the taxpayer assessed files with the Tax Commissioner within 60
days after service of the notice of assessment, either personally or by
certified mail, a written petition for reassessment signed by the authorized
agent of the taxpayer assessed having knowledge of the facts, the assessment
becomes final, and the amount of the assessment is due and payable from the
taxpayer to the Treasurer of State. The petition shall indicate the taxpayer's
objections, but additional objections may be raised in writing if received by
the Commissioner prior to the date shown on the final determination. If the
petition has been properly filed, the Commissioner shall proceed under R.C. §
5703.60.
   (C)   After an assessment becomes final, if any portion of the assessment
remains unpaid, including accrued interest, a certified copy of the Tax
Commissioner's entry making the assessment final may be filed in the Office of
the Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas in the county in which the taxpayer has
an office or place of business in this state, the county in which the
taxpayer's statutory agent is located.
   Immediately upon the filing of the entry, the Clerk shall enter a judgment
against the taxpayer assessed in the amount shown on the entry. The judgment
may be filed by the Clerk in a loose-leaf book entitled "special judgments for
municipal income taxes," and shall have the same effect as other judgments.
Execution shall issue upon the judgment upon the request of the Tax
Commissioner, and all laws applicable to sales on execution shall apply to
sales made under the judgment.
   If the assessment is not paid in its entirety within 60 days after the day
the assessment was issued, the portion of the assessment consisting of tax due
shall bear interest at the rate per annum prescribed by R.C. § 5703.47 from the
day the Commissioner issues the assessment until the assessment is paid or
until it is certified to the attorney general for collection under R.C. §
131.02, whichever comes first. If the unpaid portion of the assessment is
certified to the Attorney General for collection, the entire unpaid portion of
the assessment shall bear interest at the rate per annum prescribed by R.C. §
5703.47 from the date of certification until the date it is paid in its
entirety. Interest shall be paid in the same manner as the tax and may be
collected by issuing an assessment under this section.
   (D)   All money collected under this section shall be credited to the
municipal income tax fund and distributed to the municipal corporation to which
the money is owed based on the assessment issued under this section.
   (E)   If the Tax Commissioner believes that collection of the tax will be
jeopardized unless proceedings to collect or secure collection of the tax are
instituted without delay, the Commissioner may issue a jeopardy assessment
against the taxpayer liable for the tax. Immediately upon the issuance of the
jeopardy assessment, the Commissioner shall file an entry with the Clerk of the
Court of Common Pleas in the manner prescribed by division (C) of this
section.Notice of the jeopardy assessment shall be served on the taxpayer
assessed or the taxpayer's legal representative in the manner provided in R.C.
§ 5703.37 within five days of the filing of the entry with the Clerk. The total
amount assessed is immediately due and payable, unless the taxpayer assessed
files a petition for reassessment in accordance with division (B) of this
section and provides security in a form satisfactory to the Commissioner and in
an amount sufficient to satisfy the unpaid balance of the assessment. Full or
partial payment of the assessment does not prejudice the Commissioner's
consideration of the petition for reassessment.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the fact that a petition for reassessment is pending,
the taxpayer may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the petition. The acceptance of a payment by the treasurer of state does not
prejudice any claim for refund upon final determination of the petition.
   If upon final determination of the petition an error in the assessment is
corrected by the Tax Commissioner, upon petition so filed or pursuant to a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals or any court to which the determination or
decision has been appealed, so that the amount due from the taxpayer under the
corrected assessment is less than the portion paid, there shall be issued to
the taxpayer, its assigns, or legal representative a refund in the amount of
the overpayment as provided by §
33.97, with interest on that amount as provided by that section.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 33.18 LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of the municipality shall maintain a
Local Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in R.C. Chapter 718.
      (2)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members. The
three members of the Local Board of Tax Review may be domiciled in the
municipality, but the appointing authority may consider membership from
individuals who are not domiciled within the municipality. Two members shall be
appointed by the legislative authority of the municipality, and may not be
employees, elected officials, or contractors with the municipality at any time
during their term or in the five years immediately preceding the date of
appointment. One member shall be appointed by the top administrative official
of the municipality. This member may be an employee of the municipality, but
may not be the director of finance or equivalent officer, or the Tax
Administrator or other similar official or an employee directly involved in
municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (3)   The term for members of the Local Board of Tax Review appointed by
the legislative authority of the municipality shall be two years. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a member may serve should the member be
reappointed by the legislative authority. The board member appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (4)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority as set forth in R.C. §
718.11(A)(4).
      (5)   A member of the board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member's predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the Board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the Board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the Board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence, or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the Board in the member's
place. This appointment shall be subject to the same requirements and
limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily
unable to serve.
      (8)   No member of the Local Board of Tax Review shall receive
compensation, fee, or reimbursement of expenses for service on the Board.
      (9)   A member of a Local Board of Tax Review shall not be appointed to
or serve on another such board simultaneously.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer's right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the Board by filing a request with the Board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 60 days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within 60 days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C) of
this section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives
a hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the Board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law, certified
public accountant, or other representative. The Board may allow a hearing to be
continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case, the hearing must
be completed within 120 days after the first day of the hearing unless the
parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The Board may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax Administrator's
assessment or any part of that assessment. The Board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within 90 days after the Board's final hearing on
the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the Board's
final determination as provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related costs,
and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the Local
Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under R.C. § 149.43. For this reason, any
documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations, or working
papers for each case must be maintained in a secure location under the control
of the Tax Administrator. No member of the Local Board of Tax Review may remove
such documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations, or
working papers from the hearing. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a
Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section are not meetings of
a public body subject to R.C. § 121.22. For this reason, such hearings shall
not be open to the public, and only those parties to the case may be present
during the hearing.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Local Board of Tax Review, see R.C. § 718.11
§ 33.19 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) of this section
may be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer,
agent of the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the
extension. Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time
limit described in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, "qualifying deferral period" means a
period of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in §
33.18. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding, or
holding by any administrative body or court that the Local Board of Tax Review
with which the aggrieved person filed the request did not have jurisdiction to
affirm, reverse, or modify the assessment or any part of that assessment.
         (b)   Ending the later of the sixtieth day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the
sixtieth day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board
of Tax Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately
reversed and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part,
or that reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be
reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission
of the offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
33.096.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the municipality does not prejudice
any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under §
33.18, of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of
the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that the amount due from
the party assessed under the corrected assessment is less than the amount paid,
there shall be issued to the appellant or to the appellant's assigns or legal
representative a refund in the amount of the overpayment as provided by §
33.096, with interest on that amount as provided by division (D) of this
section.
   (E)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties;
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 33.20 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 718.30, the municipality, pursuant to this chapter,
grants authority to the Tax Administrator, to adopt rules to administer the
income tax imposed by the municipality.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of rules, see R.C. § 718.30
§ 33.21 LANDLORD REPORTING.
   (A)   On or before December 31 of each year, all property owners of rental
or leased property who rent to tenants of residential, commercial or industrial
premises shall file with the Income Tax Commissioner, a report showing the
name, address, move in/out dates, and forwarding addresses if known, of each
tenant who occupies the residential, commercial or industrial premises within
the corporation limits of the municipality during a requested year.
   (B)   Landlord reporting forms shall be made available on the Village of
Archbold website. Failure to submit report will result in notification to
landlord to comply within 30 days. Any subsequent notifications will incur a
$50 penalty to the landlord.
(Ord. 2019-49, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 33.97 COLLECTION AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained herein.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided hereunder as though the same
were continuing.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 33.98 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter, or any tax imposed
against, or exemption from tax granted to, any taxpayer or forms of income
specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such clause,
sentence, section or part of this chapter so found and shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other
parts of this chapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
legislative authority of the municipality that this chapter would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section
or part thereof not been included in this chapter.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 33.99 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, whoever recklessly
violates §
33.15, §
33.14(A), or §
33.051 by failing to remit municipal income taxes deducted and withheld from an
employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of up to
six months, or both. In addition, the violation is punishable by dismissal from
office or discharge from employment, or both.
   (B)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of Internal Revenue Code Sec. 7213(a), 7213A, or
7431 shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject to a
fine of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment for
a term not exceeding five years, or both. In addition, the violation is
punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment, or both.
   (C)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
33.14(A) constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   Whoever violates any other provision of this chapter for which
violation no penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not more than $1,000, imprisoned not more than six months or
both, for each offense. By way of an illustrative enumeration, violations of
this chapter shall include but not be limited to the following acts, conduct,
and/or omissions:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Knowingly make any incomplete return;
      (3)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Cause to not be remitted the city income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the municipality municipal corporation as
required by §
33.051;
      (5)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees;
      (6)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and state
income tax returns, or any documentation relating to the income or net profits
of a taxpayer;
      (7)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns, or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (8)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person's income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers'
income or net profits, such person's employer's income or net profits;
      (9)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (10)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct social security number and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof;
      (11)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information;
      (12)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make any payment of
estimated municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable
year in accordance with this chapter; or
      (13)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.
      (14)   For purposes of this section, any violation that does not specify
a culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict liability and no
culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty of
that violation.
      (15)   For purposes of this section, the term "person" shall, in addition
to the meaning prescribed in §
33.03, include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through entity
or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or officer
within the city, any employee or agent of such corporation, association, pass-
through entity or unincorporated business entity who has control or supervision
over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the municipal income tax
returns and making the payments of the municipal income tax as required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 15-77, passed 12-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2019- 04, passed 1-7-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Violations; penalties, see R.C. § 718.99
§ 33.991 ADDITIONAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalty imposed by §§
33.05 to
33.07 or R.C. Chapter 5703, the following penalties shall apply:
      (1)   If a taxpayer required to file a tax return under §§
33.05 to
33.07 fails to make and file the return within the time prescribed, including
any extensions of time granted by the Tax Commissioner, the Commissioner may
impose a penalty not exceeding $25 per month or fraction of a month, for each
month or fraction of a month elapsing between the due date, including
extensions of the due date, and the date on which the return is filed. The
aggregate penalty, per instance, under this division shall not exceed $150.
      (2)   If a person required to file a tax return electronically under §§
33.05 to
33.07 fails to do so, the Commissioner may impose a penalty not to exceed the
following:
         (a)   For each of the first two failures, 5% of the amount required to
be reported on the return;
         (b)   For the third and any subsequent failure, 10% of the amount
required to be reported on the return.
      (3)   If a taxpayer that has made the election allowed under §
33.07 fails to timely pay an amount of tax required to be paid under this
chapter, the Commissioner may impose a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not
timely paid.
      (4)   If a taxpayer files what purports to be a tax return required by §§
33.05 to
33.07 that does not contain information upon which the substantial correctness
of the return may be judged or contains information that on its face indicates
that the return is substantially incorrect, and the filing of the return in
that manner is due to a position that is frivolous or a desire that is apparent
from the return to delay or impede the administration of §§
33.05 to
33.07, a penalty of up to $500 may be imposed.
      (5)   If a taxpayer makes a fraudulent attempt to evade the reporting or
payment of the tax required to be shown on any return required under §§
33.05 to
33.07, a penalty may be imposed not exceeding the greater of $1,000 or 100% of
the tax required to be shown on the return.
      (6)   If any person makes a false or fraudulent claim for a refund under
§
33.97, a penalty may be imposed not exceeding the greater of $1,000 or 100% of
the claim. Any penalty imposed under this division, any refund issued on the
claim, and interest on any refund from the date of the refund, may be assessed
under §
33.17 without regard to any time limitation for the assessment imposed by
division (A) of that section.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the tax required to be shown on a tax
return shall be reduced by the amount of any part of the tax paid on or before
the date, including any extensions of the date, prescribed for filing the
return.
   (C)   Each penalty imposed under this section shall be in addition to any
other penalty imposed under this section. All or part of any penalty imposed
under this section may be abated by the Tax Commissioner. The commissioner may
adopt rules governing the imposition and abatement of such penalties.
   (D)   All amounts collected under this section shall be considered as taxes
collected under §§
33.05 to
33.07 and shall be credited and distributed to municipal corporations in the
same proportion as the underlying tax liability is required to be distributed
to such municipal corporations under R.C. § 718.83.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 1-7-2019)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE
Section
   
34.01   Village Administrator authorized to co-sign checks
   
34.02   Village Administrator authorized to cancel uncollectible bills
   
34.03   Ohio cooperative purchasing program
   
34.04   Authorizing money to be spent in case of water emergency
   
34.05   Interest from NOW accounts
   
34.06   Grievance procedure relative to revenue sharing
   
34.07   Director of Finance
   
34.08   Contract procedures
   
34.09   Investment policy adopted by reference
   
34.10   Village Administrator authorized to make contracts and purchases
   
34.11   Bad checks policy
   
34.12   Financial and debt management policy
   
34.13   Identity theft prevention program
§ 34.01 VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR AUTHORIZED TO CO-SIGN CHECKS.
   The Village Administrator is hereby authorized to co-sign village checks.
(Ord. 81-11, passed 2-16-1981)
§ 34.02 VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR AUTHORIZED TO CANCEL UNCOLLECTIBLE BILLS.
   The Village Administrator is hereby authorized to cancel on the records of
the village bills which in his or her judgment are uncollectible.
(Ord. 85-6, passed 1-21-1985)
§ 34.03 OHIO COOPERATIVE PURCHASING PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Village Administrator hereby requests authority in the name of the
village to participate in state contracts which the Department of
Administrative Services, Office of State Purchasing, has entered into for the
purchase of supplies, services, equipment and certain materials pursuant to
R.C. § 125.04.
   (B)   The Village Administrator is hereby authorized to agree in the name of
the village to be bound by all contract terms and conditions as the Department
of Administrative Service, Office of State Purchasing, prescribes. Such terms
and conditions may include a reasonable fee to cover the administrative costs
which the Department of Administrative Services incurs as a result of the
village’s participation in a contract. Further, the Village Administrator does
hereby agree to be bound by all such terms and conditions.
   (C)   The Village Administrator is hereby authorized to agree in the name of
the village to directly pay the vendor, under each such state contract in which
it participates, for items it receives pursuant to the contract, and the
Village Administrator does hereby agree to directly pay the vendor.
(Res. 88-15, passed 2-15-1988)
§ 34.04 AUTHORIZING MONEY TO BE SPENT IN CASE OF WATER EMERGENCY.
   The Village Administrator and the Director of Finance are hereby authorized,
jointly or severally, to spend unappropriated monies from the Water Fund in the
event of a water crisis.
(Res. 82-19, passed 4-5-1982)
Cross-reference:
   Water use emergency plan, see §
51.02
§ 34.05 INTEREST FROM NOW ACCOUNTS.
   All interest from NOW accounts is directed to be placed in the General Fund.
(Ord. 82-79, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 34.06 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE RELATIVE TO REVENUE SHARING.
   The grievance procedure as proposed by the Revenue Sharing Guidelines is
hereby adopted.
(Ord. 84-59, passed 11-5-1984)
§ 34.07 DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
   The village shall hire a Director of Finance and create this position to
fulfill the role as deemed necessary by the Charter of the village to assist
the Village Administrator, Council, Mayor and personnel in the operations and
office tasks associated with the Finance Department.
(Res. 97-02, passed 1-6-1997)
Cross-reference:
   Director of Finance, see Charter
Article VII
§ 34.08 CONTRACT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Contracting procedures generally will follow state law, except as
otherwise provided by Village Council by ordinance, motion or rule.
   (B)   The Council may dispense with or modify any contractual procedures or
limitations established by federal, state or procedures previously established
by Council in a particular situation.
   (C)   The Village Administrator, for example, in a particular contractual
situation, may by action of Council, be authorized to enter into a contract
without securing competitive bids.
   (D)   The Village Administrator is not required to comply with HB-231,
effective November 25, 1995, or any amendments thereto, with respect to the
selection of an architect, engineer or project manager.
   (E)   The Village Administrator may, but is not required to, establish
guidelines for such selections by rule.
(Ord. 97-36, passed 4-21-1997)
Cross-reference:
   Contracting procedures, see Charter §
11.05
§ 34.09 INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Investment Policy attached to Res. 97-88, copies of which are on file in
the office of the Village Clerk, is adopted by reference and incorporated as
part of this code of ordinances as if set out at length herein.
(Res. 97-88, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 34.10 VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR AUTHORIZED TO MAKE CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES.
   (A)   The Village Administrator shall make contracts, purchase supplies and
materials, and provide labor for any work under his or her supervision
involving not more than $20,000.
   (B)   When an expenditure exceeds $20,000, the expenditure may come before
Council in the form of a resolution to suspend formal bid procedures.
   (C)   Approval to begin the formal bid procedure for expenditures which
exceed $20,000 are made by motion.
(Ord. 97-103, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 34.11 BAD CHECKS POLICY.
   There is hereby established a criminal violation of negligently passing a
bad check, which shall read as follows.
   (A)   No person shall negligently issue or transfer or cause to be issued or
transferred a check or other negotiable instrument without sufficient funds in
his or her account to allow the check or other negotiable instrument to be
honored.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a person who transfers a check or other
negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored, if either
of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer had no account with the drawee at the time of issuance
or the stated date on the check or other negotiable instrument, whichever is
later; and/or
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after its
issuance or stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer,
endorser or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days of receiving notice of dishonor.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligently passing bad
checks, a minor misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 07-20, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 34.12 FINANCIAL AND DEBT MANAGEMENT POLICY.
   The Financial and Debt Management Policy attached to Ord. 09-61, copies of
which are on file in the office of the Village Clerk, is adopted by reference
and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as if set out at length
herein.
(Ord. 09-61, passed 10-19-2009)
§ 34.13 IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   The Identity Theft Prevention Program attached to Ord. 09-44, copies of
which are on file in the office of the Village Clerk, is adopted by reference
and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as if set out at length
herein.
(Ord. 09-44, passed 8-17-2009)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Dumping of refuse
   
50.02   Placement of refuse
   
50.03   Residential charge for refuse pickup
§ 50.01 DUMPING OF REFUSE.
   (A)   No person shall dump or put any refuse, trash or garbage of any kind
on the property of anyone in the village for the purpose of refuse service
pickup where the person is not a resident of the property.
   (B)   No person or resident of any property within the village shall permit
any person who is not a resident of the property to dump or put any refuse,
trash or garbage of any kind on the property for the purpose of refuse service
pickup.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.02 PLACEMENT OF REFUSE.
   No person shall place or permit placement of any refuse, trash or garbage of
any kind at the curbsite of any property within the village longer than 36
hours prior to pickup by the refuse service.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 RESIDENTIAL CHARGE FOR REFUSE PICKUP.
   Certain rates and fees of the residential refuse service are hereby adjusted
and set as follows:
   Residential refuse service fee:
      Residential property/month:   $8.50
(Res. 82-25, passed 5-3-1982; Am. Res. 85-62, passed 12-2-1985; Am. Res. 89-55,
passed 11-20-1989; Am. Res. 90-69, passed 12-17-1990; Am. Ord. 97-06, passed 2-
17-1997; Am. Ord. 99-60, passed 11-11-1999; Am. Ord. 05-06, passed 1-17-2005;
Ord. 07-32, passed 6-4-2007; Am. Ord. 13-38, passed 6-3-2013)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Water and geothermal wells regulated
   
51.02   Water use emergency plan
Cross-Connection Control
   
51.15   Booster pumps; backflow device; notice; installation
   
51.16   Cross-connections prohibited
   
51.17   Surveys and investigations
   
51.18   Right of entry
   
51.19   Discontinuance of water service; restoration
Rates and Charges
   
51.30   Service rates and charges
   
51.31   Rates outside village
   
51.32   Billings
   
51.33   Right to increase or decrease rates; right to negotiate different rates
   
51.34   Liability of owner
   
51.35   Resolution of dispute for water service billing
   
51.36   Disconnection for late payment
   
51.37   Liens on premises
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 WATER AND GEOTHERMAL WELLS REGULATED.
   (A)   Water wells.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to drill a water well within the village
without securing the prior approval of the Village Administrator and Village
Council, which approval shall be granted only on such terms and conditions as
will be consistent with the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of
the village, the welfare of all users of the municipal water system and the
security of the municipal water system.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to use or consume water from any well drilled
in violation of this division (A).
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to use or consume within the village, or
supply for use or consumption within the village, water which is derived from
wells located outside the corporate limits of the village without securing the
prior approval of the Village Administrator and Village Council, which approval
shall be granted only on such terms and conditions as will be consistent with
the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the village, the welfare
of all users of the municipal water system and the security of the municipal
water system.
   (B)   Geothermal wells. It shall be unlawful to drill a geothermal well for
heating and cooling purposes, unless the following conditions are fulfilled.
      (1)   An application for the drilling of a geothermal well for heating
and cooling of residences and commercial and industrial buildings shall be
submitted, in writing, to the Village Administrator, setting forth the location
of the receiving and return wells, the location of the building to be heated or
cooled, the person making the application and the person and/or business
receiving the benefit of the system.
      (2)   Drilling of a geothermal well cannot commence without the approval
of the Village Administrator.
      (3)   All water which is removed from the ground for the geothermal
system shall be returned to the ground with a return well. No water from this
system shall be discharged into the village sanitary or storm sewer system.
      (4)   The property which receives the benefit of the geothermal system
must use the village water system for its domestic or industrial water
consumption.
(Ord. 82-55, passed 10-4-1982) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 WATER USE EMERGENCY PLAN.
   (A)   The Mayor of the village is hereby authorized to implement a
restriction of water usage as follows.
      (1)   Phase I. When the Tiffin River reaches a low where the flow is
estimated to be less than ten m.g.d. (million gallons per day) or has been
contaminated so as to be unusable, restrictions of water usage shall be
voluntary.
      (2)   Phase II. When the Tiffin River is so low or has been contaminated
so as to be unusable that the village is unable to pump on a regular basis to
keep the upground reservoirs full, a mandatory water curtailment shall be
imposed with the following restrictions:
         (a)   Prohibit lawn watering although allowed to water bushes and
gardens between the hours of 7:00 to 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. All
watering has to be done with hose in hand. No sprinklers allowed;
         (b)   No home car washing; car washing by commercial car washes only;
and
         (c)   No use of fire hydrants, except for fire.
      (3)   Phase III. When the Tiffin River is so low that the village is
unable to pump from the river or has been contaminated so as to be unusable,
all commercial and industrial accounts will be curtailed by a percent cutback
from normal usage. This percent will be determined by the Mayor and all
industries shall be notified by mail to the percent of cutback required.
   (B)   In addition to mail notification, as provided in this section, the
village shall notify the community of the restrictions by utilizing the local
newspaper and local radio station.
   (C)   Whoever violates the mandatory water curtailment, as provided herein,
shall be given a written warning for a first offense. For the second offense,
water service will be shut off and require a payment of $100 to have service
turned back on.
(Ord. 89-9, passed 4-3-1989; Am. Ord. 11-54, passed 9- 6-2011)
Cross-reference:
   Authorizing money to be spent in case of water emergency, see §
34.04
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 51.15 BOOSTER PUMPS; BACKFLOW DEVICE; NOTICE; INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Booster pumps.
      (1)   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection to
any one, two or three family dwelling where a booster pump has been installed,
unless an air gap separation is provided to ensure that the booster pump cannot
exert suction on the service line.
      (2)   For booster pumps not intended to be used for fire suppression, no
person shall install or maintain a water service connection to any premises not
included in division (1) of this rule where a booster pump has been installed
on the service line to or within such premises, unless such booster pump is
equipped with a low pressure cut-off designed to shut-off the booster pump when
the pressure in the service line on the suction side of the pump drops to ten
pounds per square inch gauge or less.
      (3)   For booster pumps used for fire suppression installed after the
effective date of this rule, no person shall install or maintain a water
service connection to any premises not included in division (1) of this rule
where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or within such
premises, unless the pump is equipped with a minimum pressure sustaining valve
on the booster pump discharge, which throttles the discharge of the pump when
necessary so that suction pressure will not be reduced below ten pounds per
square inch gauge while the pump is operating.
      (4)   For booster pumps used for fire suppression installed prior to the
effective date of this rule, no person shall maintain a water service
connection to any premises not included in division (A) of this rule where a
booster pump has been installed on the service line to or within such premises,
unless the pump is equipped with either a low pressure cut-off designed to
shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service line on the suction
side of the pump drops to ten pounds per square inch gauge or less, or a
minimum pressure sustaining valve on the booster pump discharge, which
throttles the discharge of the pump when necessary so that suction pressure
will not be reduced below ten pounds per square inch gauge while the pump is
operating.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device or minimum pressure sustaining valve in proper working
order and to certify to the supplier of water, at least once every 12 months
that the device is operable and maintained in continuous operation.
   (B)   If, in the judgement of the Superintendent of Water, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
system, the Superintendent of Water will give notice to the water consumer to
install such an approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his
or her own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a
manner approved by the Superintendent of Water and shall have inspections and
tests made of such approved devices as required by the Superintendent of Water.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 1-17-1994; Am. Ord. 09-21, passed 4-6-2009)
§ 51.16 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the village may enter the supply or distributing system of the municipality,
unless the private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of the supply shall have been approved by the Village
Superintendent of Water and by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 1-17-1994) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties serviced by the
public water supply where actual or potential hazards to the public water
supply may exist. The surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of
public record and shall be repeated as often as the Superintendent of Water
shall deem necessary.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 51.18 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Village Superintendent of Water or his, her or its duly authorized
representative shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the village for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or
systems thereof. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so
served shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information which he or
she may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on the
property. The refusal of the information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 51.19 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE; RESTORATION.
   The Village Superintendent of Water is authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
chapter is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he
or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply distribution mains. Water service to the property shall not
be restored until the conditions shall have been eliminated or corrected in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 1-17-1994)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.30 SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Beginning with the June 2014 billing, the following monthly rates for
supplying of water services by said waterworks system shall be computed on the
following rate schedule:
      (1)   Readiness-to-service and billing charge: $7.20 per month.
      (2)   Water usage:
 
First 1,000,000 gallons $2.75 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000,000 gallons $2.43 per 1,000 gallons
Over 11,000,000 gallons $2.26 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (3)   The minimum monthly charge shall be $9.95.
 
         (a)   The Village Council also directs the Administrative and Utility
Staff to meet with the village's largest water and wastewater user at a minimum
of one time after the first of each calendar year.
(Ord. 897, passed 9-6-1960; Am. Ord. 81-21, passed 4-6-1981; Am. Ord. 81-40,
passed 9-21-1981; Am. Ord. 93-6, passed 4-5-1993; Am. Ord. 00-15, passed 2-7-
2000; Am. Ord. 02-73, passed 12-16-2002; Am. Ord. 06-02, 1-23-2006; Am. Ord.
06-58, passed 11-20-2006; Am. Ord. 09-73, passed 12-7-2009; Am. Ord. 11-29,
passed 4-18-2011; Am. Ord. 12-27, passed 4-16-2012; Am. Ord. 13-28, passed 4-
15-2013; Am. Ord. 14-18, passed 4-7-2014)
   (B)   The following shall be the monthly rates charged for the supplying of
water services by the waterworks system:
Water main assessment                 $31.00/ft.
1-inch water tap                      $1,300
Over 1 inch                           $1,300 plus material and labor
Security deposit                      $200
Outside corporation deposit           $100
Meter test                            $50
Turn-on                               $20
Turn-off                              $20
Special readings                      $10
Delinquent account turn-on            $50
Delinquent account turn-on outside    $65
corporation
Replacement of meter damaged by user  $50 or cost, whichever is higher
Refusal of access to user’s premises$40
Unauthorized turn-on, fraudulent      $200
Diversion of water or any other
violation of these rules and          $200
regulations
Fire hydrant rental                   $750 payable semi-annually
Charge for water sold at WTP:
If invoice sent (minimum)             $10 for first 1,000 gallons
                                      $5 for each successive 1,000 gallons
If sold and collected at plant        $1/100 gallons
Frozen meter and repair (minimum)     $40
Charge for supply and installation of $325
yard sprinkler meter*
*The above mentioned yard sprinkler meter shall be connected to permanent yard
sprinkler systems only, unless this requirement is waived by the
Superintendent of Water. If in the judgement of the Superintendent of Water
the plumbing can be verified to show no cross connection with interior uses,
the Superintendent may, at his or her discretion, allow outside faucets and
yard hydrants only to be connected to the yard sprinkler meter. The
Superintendent shall cause inspections to be done on each such installation,
at a period not to exceed once every five years. Any person found to illegally
connect the meter to interior plumbing shall be deemed in violation of
Chapter 51 of this code, and shall be subject to penalties under §§
51.99 and
10.99.
                                      $8 for first 1,000 gallons in a calendar
                                      year
                                      $4 per 1,000 gallons for next 99,000
                                      gallons in a calendar year
Bulk water sold from fire hydrants    $2.19 per 1,000 gallons for all over
                                      100,000 gallons in a calendar year. This
                                      rate shall be adjusted at any future
                                      time the rate charged to residential
                                      users changes, to match the residential
                                      rate
 
(Ord. 897, passed 9-6-1960; Am. Ord. 79-31, passed 6-4-1979; Am. Ord. 84-70,
passed 12-17-1984; Am. Ord. 90-69, passed 12-17-1990; Am. Ord. 99-60, passed
11-1-1999; Am. Ord. 00-45, passed 6-5-2000; Am. Ord. 01-66, passed 12-3-2001;
Am. Ord. 07-32, passed 6-4-2007; Am. Ord. 08-39, passed 7-21-2008; Am. Ord. 13-
38, passed 6-3-2013; Am. Ord. 14-18, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 51.31 RATES OUTSIDE VILLAGE.
   The monthly rates charged water users outside the village limits shall be
the same as those charged to the same class of users within the village, plus
an additional 50%.
(Ord. 897, passed 9-6-1960; Am. Ord. 79-31, passed 6-4-1979; Am. Ord. 84-55,
passed 10-1-1984; Am. Ord. 88-66, passed 11-21-1988; Am. Ord. 00-15, passed 2-
7-2000; Am. Ord. 02-73, passed 12-16-2002; Am. Ord. 06-02, 1-23-2006; Am. Ord.
06-58, passed 11-20-2006; Am. Ord. 09-73, passed 12-7-2009; Am. Ord. 11-29,
passed 4-18-2011; Am. Ord. 12-27, passed 4-16-2012; Am. Ord. 13-28, passed 4-
15-2013; Am. Ord. 14-18, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 51.32 BILLINGS.
   In the event any water rent charged against any tenant or premises is not
paid on or before the tenth day of the calendar month of billing, a penalty of
10% of the original charge shall be added to and collected as a part of the
bill.
(Ord. 897, passed 9-6-1960; Am. Ord. 74-55, passed 11-4-1974; Am. Ord. 79-31,
passed 6-4-1979; Am. Ord. 00-15, passed 2-7-2000; Am. Ord. 02-73, passed 12-16-
2002; Am. Ord. 06-02, 1-23-2006; Am. Ord. 06-58, passed 11-20-2006; Am. Ord.
09-73, passed 12-7-2009; Am. Ord. 11-29, passed 4-18-2011; Am. Ord. 12-27,
passed 4-16-2012; Am. Ord. 13-28, passed 4-15-2013; Am. Ord. 14-18, passed 4-7-
2014)
§ 51.33 RIGHT TO INCREASE OR DECREASE RATES; RIGHT TO NEGOTIATE DIFFERENT
RATES.
   (A)   The village reserves the right to increase or decrease the foregoing
rates at any time.
   (B)   The village shall reserve the right, but has no obligation, to
negotiate a contract specifying different rates that those contained in §
51.30(A) with any industrial or commercial customer who uses more than an
average of 1,000,000 gallons per month.
(Ord. 897, passed 9-6-1960; Am. Ord. 74-55, passed 11-4-1974; Am. Ord. 79-31,
passed 6-4-1979; Am. Ord. 09-73, passed 12-7-2009; Am. Ord. 11-29, passed 4-18-
2011)
§ 51.34 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of private property which is served by the waterworks system by
pipes connected with the system to convey water thereto shall, as well as the
lessee of the premises, be liable to the village for all water from the system
used upon the premises.
(Ord. 897, passed 9-6-1960; Am. Ord. 74-55, passed 11-4-1974; Am. Ord. 79-31,
passed 6-4-1979)
§ 51.35 RESOLUTION OF DISPUTE FOR WATER SERVICE BILLING.
   In the event a customer disputes a bill with the village for water services
provided, the customer shall, within ten days of receipt of the bill, notify
the Village Administrator, in writing, that the bill is in dispute. The Village
Administrator shall provide an opportunity for the customer to meet with the
Village Administrator within seven days of receipt of the notice. At the
meeting, the Village Administrator shall provide the customer a fair and
reasonable opportunity for resolution of the billing dispute.
(Ord. 84-65, passed 12-3-1984)
§ 51.36 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The village’s form for application
for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title,
address, room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing,
clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within ten
days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the village
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $12.
§ 51.37 LIENS ON PREMISES.
   Each water charge levied pursuant to this chapter is hereby made a lien upon
the premises charged therewith and, if the same is not paid within 30 days
after it shall be due and payable, it may be certified to the Auditor of Fulton
County, who shall place the same on the tax duplicate, with interest and
penalties allowed by law, and be collected as other municipal taxes are
collected.
(Ord. 00-15, passed 2-7-2000; Am. Ord. 02-73, passed 12-16-2002; Am. Ord. 06-
02, 1-23-2006; Am. Ord. 06-58, passed 11-20-2006; Am. Ord. 09-73, passed 12-7-
2009; Am. Ord. 11-29, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter for which
no other penalty is provided shall be subject to the penalty as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Protection from damage
   
52.03   Fees
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
52.10   Unlawful discharge prohibited
   
52.11   Suitable facilities required; connection to public sewers
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.20   Permit required
   
52.21   Costs; indemnification
   
52.22   Separate sewers required
   
52.23   Sewer construction requirements
   
52.24   Inspection
   
52.25   Excavations
   
52.26   Cleanouts
   
52.27   Environmental permit
Use of Public Sewers
   
52.40   Prohibition of unpolluted water
   
52.41   Allowable discharge of unpolluted water
   
52.42   Prohibitions
   
52.43   Categorical standards
   
52.44   Local limits
   
52.45   Authority for control of wastewater discharges
   
52.46   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
   
52.47   Grease and oil interceptors
   
52.48   Operation of pretreatment facilities
   
52.49   Analyses
   
52.50   Special conditions
Control of Industrial Wastes
   
52.60   Control manholes
   
52.61   Wastewater volume determination
   
52.62   Sampling and monitoring
   
52.63   Laboratory procedures
   
52.64   Slug load notification
   
52.65   Requirement to apply for wastewater discharge permit
   
52.66   Wastewater discharge permit contents
   
52.67   Wastewater discharge permit issuance process
   
52.68   Reporting requirements
   
52.69   Violation or potential problem reporting
   
52.70   Sampling and analytical requirements
   
52.71   Confidentiality
   
52.72   Records retention and availability
   
52.73   Publication of violations
Administration
   
52.80   Right of entry
   
52.81   Installation of sampling or monitoring devices
   
52.82   Unreasonable delay
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.), as amended; as well as
any guidelines, limitations, definitions and standards promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Act.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenances procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in §§
52.42 and
52.44. BMPs include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices
to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or
drainage from raw materials storage. BMPs also include alternative means (i.e.,
management plans) of complying with, or in place of certain established
categorical pretreatment standards and effluent limits.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20 degrees C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal; also called house connection.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
expressed in milligrams per liter.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. BOD, suspended solids, pH and fecal coliform bacteria,
plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit, if the publicly
owned treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in fact does
remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. Examples of such  additional
pollutants may include: (1) COD; (2) total organic carbon; (3) phosphorus and
phosphorus compounds; (4) nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; (5) fats, oils and
greases of animal or vegetable origin, except as prohibited under §
52.63.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant, which is not a “compatible pollutant”
as defined in this section.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user who discharges “industrial wastes” as defined in
this section.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INTERFERENCE. An industrial discharge which, alone or in conjunction with
discharges by other sources, both (a) inhibits or disrupts the publicly owned
treatment works, its treatment processes operations, or it sludge processes,
use or disposal; and (b) therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the POTW’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit (including
an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or of the prevention
of sewage sludge disposal by the POTW in accordance with Section 405 of the Act
(33 U.S.C. § 1345) or any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed
pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) or more
stringent state criteria (including those contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method
of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   MAY is permissive; SHALL is mandatory.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface water or groundwater.
   NPDES PERMIT. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit.
   OWNER or PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society,
corporation or group.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge that exits the POTW into waters of the state in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of
the POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of
a violation).
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, wastewater,
garbage, wastewater sludge, munitions, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged
into water.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the POTW.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than 0.5 inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). Any devices or systems used in the
collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or
industrial wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances which convey
wastewater to a treatment plant.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Wastewater contributed by reason of human occupancy.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions and to
which ground, storm and surface waters are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying wastewater or storm water.
   SEWER CONTRACTOR. The agent of the owner responsible for the construction of
the building sewer.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU).
      (1)   All Industrial Users subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards
under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N; discharging to
the POTW; or
      (2)   Any other industrial users that: discharges an average of 25,000
gallons per day or more of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary,
non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater); contributes a process
waste stream which makes up 5% or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or
organic capacity of the wastewater treatment plant; or
      (3)   Is designated as such by the POTW on the basis that the industrial
user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or
for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement (in accordance with 40
C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6)).
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit
for the same pollutant parameter;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter
taken during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily
maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC=1.4
for BOD, TSS, fats, oil, and grease, and 1.2 for all other parameters except
pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or long-term average) that the Village Administrator determined has caused,
alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through
(including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations which the Superintendent
or Village Administrator determines will adversely affect the operation or
implementation of the local pretreatment program.
   SLUG LOAD. Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.)
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which
will cause “interference”, as previously defined in this section; or “pass-
through” as previously defined in this section.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Wastewater Department of the
Village of Archbold, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Those substances referred to in Section 307(a) of the Act
as well as any other known potential substances capable of producing toxic
effects.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of a quality that has not been altered chemically,
physically, biologically or radiologically by man or that would not benefit by
discharge to sanitary sewers and subsequent wastewater treatment.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Archbold, Ohio.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and  manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of POTW of the village required to
treat wastewater and dispose of the effluent.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. I, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. I, passed 10-11-
2010)
§ 52.02 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenances, or
equipment which is a part of the POTW. Any person violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. VI, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. VI, passed 10-11-
2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 FEES.
   (A)   Certain rates and fees of the Sewer Department are hereby adjusted and
set as follows:
 
Sewer inspection fee                      
   Residential                        $170
   Commercial                         $110
   Industrial                         $230
Sanitary sewer assessment                $21 per foot
Sauder Museum Pump Station Service       $50 per month, plus any extra labor
Industrial wastewater laboratory testing $200
fee
 
(Ord. 07-32, passed 6-4-2007; Am. Ord. 13-38, passed 6-3-2013)
   (B)   (1)   It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary for the due
protection of the public health, safety and welfare of the village to establish
and collect revised charges for the use of the system upon all lots, lands and
premises served by or having connection with the system.
      (2)   The funds received from the collection of the rates and charges
hereinafter provided shall be deposited as received with the Director of
Finance, who shall keep the same in a separate fund designated “Wastewater
Revenue Fund”. Subject to the provisions of any ordinance or indenture of
mortgage authorizing the issuance of and securing mortgage bonds for the
system, moneys in the fund shall be used for the payment of the cost and
expense of operations, maintenance, repair and management of the system and any
surplus in the fund over and above the requirements hereinbefore mentioned may
be used for the enlargements of, and replacements to, the system and parts
thereof.
      (3)   For the purposes provided in division (B)(2) of this section, there
is hereby levied and charged upon each lot, parcel of land or premises having a
connection with the system, or otherwise discharging sewage, industrial wastes,
water or other liquids, whether directly or indirectly into the system, sewer
charges payable as hereinafter provided and in amounts to be determined as
follows:
         (a)   Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, sewer charges at the
rates provided in this division (B)(3) with respect to any premises shall be
based upon the water consumption on the premises for the billing period
applicable to the premises. “Water consumption” shall mean the amount of water
consumed upon such premises, whether from the municipal system or otherwise,
including private sources, during the applicable sewer charge billing period,
as measured by a water meter acceptable to the Village Administrator, or if the
Village Administrator determines that measurement by water meter is not
feasible, then in such manner as shall be determined by the Village
Administrator.
         (b)   The monthly charge to each user shall be computed on the
following schedule:
 
First 1,000 gallons        $12.25 (Minimum monthly charge)*
Next 50,000 gallons        $3.05 per 1,000 gallons
Next 249,000 gallons       $2.29 per 1,000 gallons
Next 700,000 gallons       $1.53 per 1,000 gallons
All Over 1,000,000 gallons $1.09 per 1,000 gallons
The monthly charge for each unmetered user shall be $19.90
 
* Where one meter is permitted to serve more than one dwelling unit and/or
business unit, each such unit shall be deemed a separate user for the purpose
of exacting a minimum charge.
         (c)   The Village Council also directs the Village Administrator and
Utility Staff to meet with the village’s largest water and wastewater user at a
minimum of one time after the first of each calendar year. This annual review
will also likewise review the rates regarding BOD rates.
         (d)   In the event any user of the system shall discharge thereto
wastes stronger than 200 mg/l of BOD, there shall be added a monthly surcharge
to such user, in addition to the monthly charges, at the rate of $0.21 per
pound of BOD in excess of 200 mg/l. The excess BOD shall be determined by the
village's wastewater laboratory personnel via a standard five day BOD test from
composite samples collected by each user at such time and in such manner
requested by the Village Administrator. No less than two samples per month
shall be collected. Billing of surcharges to a user for excess BOD, where
possible, shall be computed on the basis of the average of excess of BOD found
in all samples collected and tested during the previous month.
      (4)   Industrial waste, which is trucked to the treatment plant, will be
determined by a BOD factor based upon pounds of BOD plus gallonage as follows:
$12.25 per 1,000 gallons; $0.21 per pound of BOD.
      (5)   The sewer rates charged sewer users outside the village limits
shall be the same as those charged to the same class of users within the
village, plus an additional 200%.
      (6)   The sewer charges levied, at the rates established herein, shall
take effect for the billing period beginning March 1, 2010, and shall be billed
monthly. All sewer charges shall be payable within ten days after billing. In
every case of failure to pay any bill for sewer charges when due, a penalty of
10% of such charges shall be added to and collected as a part of such bill.
      (7)   Each sewer charge levied pursuant to this section is hereby made a
lien upon the premises charged therewith, and if the same is not paid within 30
days after it shall be due and payable, it may be certified to the Auditor of
Fulton County, who shall place the same on the tax duplicate, with interest and
penalties allowed by law, and be collected as other municipal taxes are
collected.
      (8)   The discharge of unacceptable industrial wastes, as hereinafter
defined, into the system, whether directly or indirectly, is hereby prohibited.
Where investigation reveals the presence in the system of unacceptable
industrial wastes emanating from any lot, land, building or premises, located
within or without the corporate limits of the village, the owner, lessor,
lessee or occupant of such lot, land, building or premises shall be required to
treat, neutralize, or in other ways prepare the noxious substance therein, to
the satisfaction of the Village Administrator, in order to convert the same
into acceptable industrial wastes.
      (9)   The Village Administrator shall make and enforce such rules and
regulations as he or she may deem necessary for the enforcement of the
provisions hereof, for the proper determination and collection of the rates and
charges herein provided, and for the safe, efficient and economical management
of the system; and such rules and regulations, when not repugnant to existing
ordinances of the village or laws of the state, shall have the same force and
effect as an ordinance of Council.
      (10)   For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "sanitary sewage",
"acceptable industrial wastes" and "unacceptable industrial wastes" shall be
defined as follows:
         ACCEPTABLE INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Liquid organic waste materials not
containing toxic or explosive elements or other substances injurious to sewers
or sewage treatment processes, which result from any commercial, manufacturing
or industrial operation or process.
         SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories,
sinks, bath tubs, showers, household laundries, cellar floor drains, bars, soda
fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips and drinking fountains, and any other
water-borne waste not constituting an industrial waste.
         UNACCEPTABLE INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Liquid wastes in which are
incorporated minerals, oil, acid, toxic, metallic, chemical or explosive
substances, resulting from any commercial, manufacturing or industrial
operation or process and all wastes determined by the Village Administrator to
injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process or require attention and
expense at the sewage treatment plant beyond that contemplated by the schedule
of charges levied herein.
      (11)   The village shall reserve the right, but has no obligation, to
negotiate a contract specifying different rates than those contained in this
division (B) with any industrial or commercial customer who uses more than an
average of 1,000,000 gallons per month.
(Ord. 06-59, passed 11-20-2006; Am. Ord. 09-74, passed 12-7-2009)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 52.10 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste. This division (A)
shall not apply to manure used for farming purposes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any sanitary
sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct or keep in repair any septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy or privy vault
within the village.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. II, §§ 1-4, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. II, §§ 1-
4, passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11 SUITABLE FACILITIES REQUIRED; CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purpose, situated within the village and
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the village, is hereby
required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after the date of official
notice to do so provided that the sewer is within 200 feet of the property
line.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. II, § 5, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. II, § 5,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the village.
   (B)   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: (1) for
residential and commercial service; and (2) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent
shall make application on a special form furnished by the village. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgement of the Superintendent. A
permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the Village Administrator at the
time the application is filed.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. III, §§ 1, 2, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. III, §
1, 2, passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 COSTS; INDEMNIFICATION.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation, connection and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly
be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. III, § 3, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. III, § 3,
passed 10-11-2010)
§ 52.22 SEPARATE SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and tested by the Superintendent, to meet
all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. III, §§ 4, 5, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. III, §§
4, 5, passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 SEWER CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be of PVC pipe conforming to ASTM 3034 SDR-35
with elastomeric gasket joints of the integral bell type, or Schedule 40 with
solvent welded joints. Joint solvent shall conform to ASTM D-2564. Joints shall
be tight and waterproof.
   (B)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
six inches. The slope of such six-inch pipe shall be not less than one-eight
inch per foot. Common services for more than one building and services for
commercial or industrial uses shall be not less than eight inches in diameter.
   (C)   Whenever possible the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment in so
far as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved
pipe and fittings. No tees or 90 degree bends are allowed.
   (D)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (E)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specifications
C12, latest edition, except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has
been inspected.
   (F)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight. All
connections shall be made with manufactured or “Fernco” fittings.
   (G)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If
no properly located “Y” branch is available, the owner shall at his or her
expense install a “Y” branch in the public sewer at the location specified by
the Superintendent. The invert of the building sewer at the point of connection
shall be at the same or at a higher elevation than the invert of the public
sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made and the connections made secure and
watertight. Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved
by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. III, §§ 6-12, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. III, §§
6-12, passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.24 INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. III, § 13, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. III, § 13,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.25 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Street,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. III, § 14, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. III, § 14,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.26 CLEANOUTS.
   Six-inch cleanouts shall be installed outside of the building foundation
wall and shall extend to the ground surface. A removable waterproof cap shall
be placed at the top of the cleanout. Materials for the cleanout shall conform
to §
52.23(A).
(Ord. 05-54, Art. III, § 15, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. III, § 15,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.27 ENVIRONMENTAL PERMIT.
   In any case where the nature of a business or industry may create an
environmental problem, the village may require that the following data and
items be filed at such time as the application for sewer permit, required under
§
52.20(B), is filed:
   (A)   A written statement indicating the nature of the business, the source
and amount of water to be used, the amount of water to be discharged, along
with its present or expected bacterial, physical, chemical, radioactive or
other pertinent characteristics of quality.
   (B)   A plan and/or map of the building, works or complex, with each natural
outlet, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, watercourse or ground waters noted, and
the waste stream identified.
   (C)   An agreement to sample, test and file reports with the village and
appropriate regulatory agencies relative to characteristics of wastes on a
schedule, at locations and according to methods approved by the village.
   (D)   An agreement to place industrial waste treatment facilities, process
facilities, pretreatment facilities, waste stream control and potential
industrial waste problems under the specific supervision and control of a
person or persons who have been certified by an appropriate state agency as
properly qualified to supervise such facilities, when required by the state
agency.
   (E)   An agreement to provide reports on raw materials entering the process
or support systems, intermediate materials, final products and waste by-
products, as those factors may effect waste control.
   (F)   An agreement to maintain records and file reports on the final
disposal of specific liquids, solids, sludges, oils, radioactive materials,
solvents or other wastes.
   (G)   An agreement that, if any industrial process is to be altered so as to
add or delete a process waste or potential waste, written notification shall be
given to the village in advance and approval of the village and any necessary
regulatory agency obtained.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. III, § 16, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. III, § 16,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 52.40 PROHIBITION OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. Any
existing roof drain connections to sanitary sewers shall be connected into an
available storm sewer or shall be disconnected above ground in the manner
approved by the Superintendent. The owner of any building situated within the
village shall be required, at his or her expense, to disconnect all existing
roof drains from sanitary sewers in accordance with the provisions of this
section within 45 days after the date of official notice to do so.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. IV, § 1, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. IV, § 1,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.41 ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the Superintendent and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted
industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a
storm sewer or natural outlet on approval by the Superintendent and other
regulatory agencies.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. IV, § 2, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. IV, § 2,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.42 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to the POTW:
   (A)   Any pollutant which by reason of its nature or quantity could pass
through the POTW or cause interference with the operation or performance of the
POTW including any slug loading as defined in §
52.01.
   (B)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive hazard, including waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less
than 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Centigrade) using the test methods
specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 10.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the POTW.
   (D)   Insoluble, solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interferences
with the proper operation of the wastewater treatment works, such as, but not
limited to, ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either
whole or ground by garbage grinders. This prohibition shall include substances
which solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees F and 150
degrees F.
   (E)   Noxious or malodorous gases, such as, but not limited to, hydrogen
sulfide, sulfur dioxide and oxides of nitrogen, and other substances capable of
producing a public nuisance.
   (F)   Any pollutant which could cause, threaten to cause, or is capable of
causing either alone or by interaction with other substances, a danger to life,
health or safety of personnel within the POTW.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. IV, § 3, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. IV, § 3,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.43 CATEGORICAL STANDARDS.
   The categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 C.F.R. Chapter I,
Subchapter N, Parts 405-471 are hereby incorporated.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. IV, § 4, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. IV, § 4,
passed 10-11-2010)
§ 52.44 LOCAL LIMITS.
   The following described substances, materials, waters or wastes shall be
limited in discharges to the POTW to concentrations or quantities which will
not harm the POTW process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb or public property
of constitute a nuisance. The Superintendent may set limitations more stringent
than the limitations established herein if, in his opinion, such more stringent
limitations are necessary to meet the above mentioned objectives. Deliberate
dilution with unpolluted water to meet the concentration established in this
chapter shall not be acceptable. In forming his or her opinion as to the
acceptability, the Superintendent will give consideration to such facts as the
quantity of subject waste in relation to flow and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment process
employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of treatability of
the waste in the wastewater treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or
wastewater discharged to the POTW which shall not be violated without approval
of the Superintendent are as follows:
   (A)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150 degrees F (65.5
degrees C); or heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the
POTW resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature entering the POTW exceeds 104 degrees F (40 degrees C).
   (B)   Wastewater containing more than 100 milligrams per liter of petroleum
oils, non- biodegradable cutting oils, products of mineral oil origin or
floatable oils, fat, wax or grease, whether emulsified or not.
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders may
be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the
premises or when served by caterers.
   (D)   Except as may be permitted by the provisions of § 52.45, no person
shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described waters or
wastes to any public sewer: BOD in excess of 200 milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   (E)   Pollutant limits are established to protect against pass through and
interference. Local limits may be found in the industrial user permits. These
maximum concentrations may be changed as necessary by the village or state
regulatory agencies, based on new information concerning inhibitory substances
or to protect treatment plant processes. Industrial dischargers covered by
federal pretreatment requirements shall meet those limitations required in the
"Municipal Pretreatment Ordinance" for the village.
   (F)   The Superintendent may develop best management practices, by ordinance
or in individual wastewater discharge permits, to implement local limits and
the requirements of §
52.42.
   (G)   Any waters or wastes containing odor- producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Superintendent or any local or State
regulatory agencies.
   (H)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by applicable state and/or federal
regulations.
   (I)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a slug
load as defined in §
52.01.
   (J)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amendable only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (K)   Any waters or wastes which, by interaction with other waters or wastes
in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases or form suspended solids
which interfere with the collection system or create a condition deleterious to
the POTW.
   (L)   Any waters or wastes containing color, such as, but not limited to,
from dyes, inks or vegetable tanning solutions, shall be controlled to prevent
light absorbance which would interfere with wastewater treatment plant
processes or prevent analytical determinations.
   (M)   Inert suspended solids, such as, but not limited to, fullers earth,
lime slurries and lime residues, and dissolved solids such as, but not limited
to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate, in unusual concentrations shall not be
allowed.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. IV, §5, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. IV, §5,
passed 10-11-2010; Am. Ord. 15-69, passed 12-7-2015)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.45 AUTHORITY FOR CONTROL OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers which contain substances or possess
characteristics enumerated in §§
52.42 and
52.43, and which, in the judgement of the village, may have a deleterious
effect upon the POTW or receiving waters, including violations of applicable
water quality standards, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the village shall require one or more of the
following:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require additional payment to cover the added cost of handling and
treating the wastes.
   (B)   All industrial wastes discharged to the public sewers by major
contributing industries shall, as a minimum, meet the national pretreatment
standards for incompatible pollutants as published in Title 40 C.F.R., unless
the village is committed, in its NPDES permit, to remove a specified percentage
of the incompatible pollutant. In the latter instance, the applicable
pretreatment standards may be correspondingly reduced to levels determined by
the village or state regulatory agencies.
   (C)   If the village requires pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plans and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the village and state regulatory agencies and to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. IV, § 6, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. IV, § 6,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.46 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality, or user located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Superintendent shall enter into an
intermunicipal agreement with the contributing municipality or user. Prior to
entering into such an agreement, the Superintendent shall request the following
information from the new contributor:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality or user.
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within a contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW.
      (3)   Such other information as the Superintendent may deem necessary.
   (B)   An intermunicipal agreement, as required by division (A), shall
contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer
use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits
which are at least as stringent as those set out in §
52.44. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and limits must be
revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the village's ordinance or
local limits.
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
user inventory on at least an annual basis.
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and
sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality;
which of these activities will be conducted by the Superintendent; and which of
these activities will be conducted jointly by the contributing municipality and
the Superintendent.
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Superintendent with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities.
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW.
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality’s
discharge.
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Superintendent access to the facilities of
users located within the contributing municipality’s jurisdictional boundaries
for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any other duties deemed necessary
by the Superintendent.
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal agreement.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. IV, § 7, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. IV, § 7,
passed 10-11-2010)
§ 52.47 GREASE AND OIL INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Interceptors shall be provided for grease, oil and inorganic material
such as sand, grit, etc., when, in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease
in excessive amounts, as specified in §
52.44(B), or any flammable waste, sand or other harmful ingredients; except
that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner
shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means
of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal, which shall be subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal
and hauling of the collected materials not performed by the owner’s personnel
shall be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
   (B)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. IV, § 8, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. IV, § 8,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.48 OPERATION OF PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. IV, § 9, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. IV, § 9,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.49 ANALYSES.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of wastes
to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in accordance
with the latest approved edition of Standard Methods for Examination of Water
and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, unless
such standards conflict with regulations promulgated by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency under 40 C.F.R. Part 136, Guidelines Establishing Test
Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants, in which case, the regulations
promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency shall govern. Sampling
methods, location, times, duration and frequencies shall be determined on an
individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
   (B)   All costs incident to sampling and analyses shall be borne by the
user. Such cost incurred by the village on behalf of the user shall be billed
annually to the user, based on the actual cost to the village, plus reasonable
overhead.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. IV, § 10, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. IV, § 10,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.50 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the village for treatment, subject to possible payment therefore by the
industrial concern for subsequent treatment. Any industrial concern may appeal
to the Village Council any determination made by the Superintendent in the
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. IV, § 11, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. IV, § 11,
passed 10-11-2010)
CONTROL OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES
§ 52.60 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   When required by the Superintendent, an industry shall install one or more
suitable structures, together with necessary meters and other appurtenances, in
the building sewers to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The structures shall be installed by the industry at its
expense and shall be maintained by the industry so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. V, § 1, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. V, § 1,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.61 WASTEWATER VOLUME DETERMINATION.
   The volume of industrial wastes discharged to the POTW from industries shall
be determined upon the basis of the volume of wastewater discharged from the
industry to the POTW. This volume shall be the same volume as that recorded on
the meter, or meters, used to measure water from the water system of the
village, unless the industry is supplied with water from a source other than
the water system of the village and/or unless a substantial volume of water
supplied to the industry is not discharged to the POTW, in which cases, the
volume of water discharged to the POTW shall be determined by one or more
meters installed to measure water flow and/or wastewater discharged, or by
other means approved by the village. Meters installed other than the meter or
meters used to record consumption from the water system of the village shall be
approved by the village and installed at the expense of the industry. Following
approval, such meters shall not be removed without the consent of the
Superintendent. Such meters shall be calibrated by a factory trained
technician, at the expense of the owner, once each year.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. V, § 2, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. V, § 2,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.62 SAMPLING AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Industrial wastes discharged to the POTW shall be subject to periodic
inspection with a determination of character and concentration of such wastes.
The determination shall be made as often as may be deemed necessary by the
village. The user shall be responsible for the cost of collection and testing
of the aforementioned samples.
   (B)   Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be representative of
the composition of the wastes. The sampling shall preferably be accomplished by
the use of automatic sampling equipment capable of collecting composite
samples. Every care shall be exercised in the collection of samples to insure
their preservation in a state comparable to that at the time the sample was
taken.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. V, § 3, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. V, § 3,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.63 LABORATORY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Laboratory procedures used in the examination of industrial wastes
shall be as provided in §
52.49.
   (B)   Determination of the character and concentration of the industrial
wastes shall be made by the owner, or his or her qualified agent as approved by
the Superintendent. The results of the analyses shall be reported to the
village on a monthly basis on forms provided by the village. The village shall
make its own analyses on the wastes periodically. In case the analyses
performed by the owner and the village result in substantially different
values, an effort shall be made by the owner to collect samples. The results of
the analyses on the samples collected by the village and the owner shall be
compared, using the same testing procedures as outlined in §
52.49, and the differences negotiated. In the event the differences cannot be
resolved, the determination performed by the village shall be binding.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. V, § 4, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. V, § 4,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.64 SLUG LOAD NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   All industrial users shall notify the POTW immediately of all
discharges that could cause problems to the POTW, including any slug loading,
as defined in §
52.01, by the industrial user. The industrial user shall immediately notify the
POTW upon discovery of any slug load as follows:
      (1)   A description of the discharge and the cause of the slug loading;
      (2)   The period of slug loading including exact dates and times and, if
not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to continue;
and
      (3)   The steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of the slug loading.
      (4)   A written report containing the information required by this
section shall be filed with the POTW and the appropriate district office of the
Ohio EPA within five business days of the day when the slug loading occurred.
   (B)   Each industrial user shall permanently post signs in conspicuous
places on the premises, advising employees whom to call in the event of a slug
load discharge. It shall instruct all employees who may cause or discover such
a discharge with respect to the notification procedure required by this
section.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. V, § 5, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. V, § 5,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.65 REQUIREMENT TO APPLY FOR WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user (SIU) shall discharge wastewater into
the POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the
Superintendent.
      (1)   The Superintendent may require other industrial users to obtain
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter.
      (2)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the wastewater
discharge permittee to the penalties set out in §
52.99. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of
its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or
requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state, and local law.
   (B)   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
60 days after that date, apply to the Superintendent for a wastewater discharge
permit.
   (C)   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who proposes
to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior
to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this
wastewater discharge permit must be filed at least 60 days prior to the date
upon which any discharge will begin or recommence.
   (D)   Wastewater discharge permit application contents. All users required
to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit a permit application which
shall contain as appropriate the following information:
      (1)   All information required by§
52.68(A);
      (2)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW;
      (3)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
      (4)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
      (5)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location, and
elevation, and all points of discharge;
      (7)   Time and duration of discharges; and
      (8)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
Superintendent to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
      (9)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and
will be returned to the user for revision.
   (E)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by an authorized
representative of the user and contain the following certification statement:
      "I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations."
(Ord. 05-54, Art. V, § 6, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. V, § 6,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.66 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the Superintendent to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   The wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed five years from the effective date of the permit. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than five years, at
the discretion of the Superintendent. Each wastewater discharge permit will
indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
   (B)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the village and provisions for furnishing the new
owner or operator with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit.
   (C)   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards.
   (D)   The description of the exact sampling location where all
representative effluent samples will be taken to verify compliance.
   (E)   The requirements for self monitoring, sampling, reporting,
notification, and record-keeping. These requirements shall include an
identification of pollutants to be monitored, sampling frequency, and sample
type based on federal, state, and local law.
   (F)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable compliance
schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond that
required by applicable federal, state, or local law.
   (G)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary.
   (H)   Wastewater discharge permits may also include but need not be limited
to, the following conditions as are deemed reasonably necessary by the
Superintendent:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works.
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or non-routine
discharges.
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW.
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW.
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment.
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit.
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. V, § 7, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. V, § 7,
passed 10-11-2010)
§ 52.67 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS.
   (A)   Public notice. The Superintendent shall provide public notice of the
issuance of a wastewater discharge permit. Any person, including the user, may
petition the Superintendent to reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge
permit within 90 days of notice of its issuance.
      (1)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to
be a waiver of the administrative appeal.
      (2)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater
discharge permit.
      (3)   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
      (4)   If the Superintendent fails to act within 60 days, a request for
reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a
wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge permit, or not
to modify a wastewater discharge permit shall be considered final
administrative actions for purposes of judicial review.
      (5)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final
administrative wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a
complaint with the appropriate court in Fulton County, State of Ohio.
   (B)   Permit modification. The Superintendent may modify a wastewater
discharge permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following
reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements.
      (2)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance.
      (3)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge.
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the POTW, its’ personnel, or the receiving waters.
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit.
      (6)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting.
      (7)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13.
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater
discharge permit.
   (C)   Permit revocation. The Superintendent may revoke a wastewater
discharge permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following
reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the Superintendent of a significant change to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge.
      (2)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application.
      (3)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports.
      (4)   Tampering with monitoring equipment.
      (5)   Refusing to allow the Superintendent timely access to the facility
premises and records.
      (6)   Failure to meet effluent limitations.
      (7)   Failure to pay fines.
      (8)   Failure to pay sewer charges.
      (9)   Failure to meet compliance schedules.
      (10)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application.
      (11)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility.
      (12)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this ordinance.
   (D)   Voided permits. Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon
cessation of operations or transfer of business ownership. All wastewater
discharge permits issued to a particular user are void upon the issuance of a
new wastewater discharge permit to that user.
   (E)   Duty to reapply for wastewater discharge permit. A user with an
expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for wastewater discharge
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application, in accordance
with §
52.65(D), a minimum of 90 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. V, § 8, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. V, § 8,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.68 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Baseline monitoring reports. Within either 180 days after the
effective date of a categorical pretreatment standard, or the final
administrative decision on a category determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)
(4), whichever is later, existing categorical users currently discharging to or
scheduled to discharge to the POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report
which contains the information listed below. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
categorical users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical
standard, shall submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the
information listed below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment
it intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also
shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be
discharged. Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operations carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process. Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or
mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of
daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
§ 52.70.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in § 52.70.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in division (C) of this section
under compliance schedule progress reports.
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.65(E).
   (B)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined
by the Superintendent but in no case less than twice per year (in June and
December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
§
52.65(E).
      (2)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
      (3)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Superintendent,
using the procedures prescribed in §
52.70, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
   (C)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by this section:
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to;
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation).
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months.
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
      (4)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the Superintendent.
   (D)   Change of conditions report.
      (1)   Each user must notify the Superintendent of any planned significant
changes to the user’s operations or system which might alter the nature,
quality, or volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before the change.
      (2)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit such information
as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
52.65.
      (3)   The Superintendent may choose to issue a new wastewater discharge
permit or modify the existing wastewater discharge permit under § 52.67 in
response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
      (4)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but
are not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater, or the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. V, § 9, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. V, § 9,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.69 VIOLATION OR POTENTIAL PROBLEM REPORTING.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the
Superintendent of the incident. In cases where the pretreatment standard
requires compliance with a best management practice or pollution prevention
alternative, the user must submit documentation required by the Superintendent
or the pretreatment standard necessary to determine the compliance status of
the user. This notification shall include the location of the discharge, type
of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by
the user.
   (B)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A). Employers shall ensure that all employees,
who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
   (C)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the Superintendent
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
   (D)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of
the repeat analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware
of the violation. Resampling by the industrial user is not required if the
village performs sampling at the user’s facility at least once a month, or if
the village performs sampling at the user between the time when the initial
sampling was conducted and the time when the user or the village receives the
results of this sampling, or if the village has performed the sampling and
analysis in lieu of the industrial user.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. V, § 9, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. V, § 9,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.70 SAMPLING AND ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted
as part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. Part 136,
unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard.
If 40 C.F.R. Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for
the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in
accordance with procedures approved by EPA.
   (B)   Except as indicated in divisions (C) and (D) below, the user must
collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the superintendent. Where time-proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the village, the samples must be representative
of the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate preservation)
specified in 40 C.F.R. Part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab
samples collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior to the
analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the samples may
be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and oil
and grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite samples
for other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as documented in
approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the village, as appropriate. In
addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous
limits.
   (C)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   (D)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in §
52.68 (40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and (d)), a minimum of four grab samples must be
used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile
organic compounds for facilities for which historical sampling data do not
exist; for facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the
Superintendent may authorize a lower minimum. For the reports required by §
52.68(B), periodic compliance reports (40 C.F.R. §§ 403.12(e) and 403.12(h)),
the industrial user is required to collect the number of grab samples necessary
to assess and assure compliance by with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. V, § 10, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. V, § 10,
passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.71 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits, and monitoring
programs, and from the Superintendent’s inspection and sampling activities,
shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the user
specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets
under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted at the time of
submission of the information or data. When requested and demonstrated by the
user furnishing a report that such information should be held confidential, the
portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but shall be made
available immediately upon request to governmental agencies for uses related to
the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics and other effluent data as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 2.302 will
not be recognized as confidential information and will be available to the
public without restriction.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. V, § 11, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. V, § 12,
passed 10-11-2010)
§ 52.72 RECORDS RETENTION AND AVAILABILITY.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter, any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements, and documentation
associated with best management practices established under §
52.44. Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the persons taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the village, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 10-56, Art. V, § 11, passed 10-11-2010)
§ 52.73 PUBLICATION OF VIOLATIONS.
   The Superintendent shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the village WWTP, a list of the users which, at any time during the
previous 12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements. The term “significant noncompliance”
shall be applicable to all significant industrial users (or any other
industrial user that violates divisions (C), (D) or (H) of this section) and
shall mean:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined
in §
52.44;
   (B)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant parameter
during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by §
52.44 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by §§
52.42 and
52.44 (daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit, or narrative
standard) that the Superintendent determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through, including
endangering the health of WWTP personnel or the general public;
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Superintendent’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (H)   Any other violations, which may include a violation of best management
practices, which the Superintendent determines will adversely affect the
operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 10-56, Art. V, § 13, passed 10-11-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 52.80 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent will be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. VII, §§ 1, 2, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. VII, §§
1, 2, passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.81 INSTALLATION OF SAMPLING OR MONITORING DEVICES.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated as required by the manufacturer to ensure their accuracy.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. VII, § 3, 4, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. VII, §§
3, 4, passed 10-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.82 UNREASONABLE DELAY.
   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the user’s
premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. VII, § 5, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. VII, § 5,
passed 10-11-2010)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
§
52.02 shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the village's
enforcement response plan.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation under division (A) of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding $1,000 for each violation. Each day in which
any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Discontinuance of water service.
      (1)   The Superintendent is authorized and directed to discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any property
wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this chapter is known
to exist. The Superintendent may take such other precautionary measures as he
or she may deem necessary to protect the quality of the water body receiving
the treatment plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate
sludge management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
      (2)   Water service to such property as listed above shall not be
restored until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance
with provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Liens on premises. Each charge or fine levied pursuant to this chapter
is hereby made a lien upon the premises charged therewith, and if the same is
not paid within 30 days after it shall be due and payable, it may be certified
to the Auditor of Fulton County, who shall place the same on the tax duplicate,
with interest and penalties allowed by law, and be collected as other municipal
taxes are collected.
   (E)   Any person violating state and/or federal regulations as a consequence
of violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to any penalties
imposed by state and/or federal regulations, irrespective of the provisions of
this section.
(Ord. 05-54, Art. VIII, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 10-56, Art. VIII, passed
10-11-2010)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
      
75.   BICYCLES
      
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
78.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.03   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.04   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.05   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.06   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.07   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.08   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow-moving vehicles on freeways
   
70.09   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersections
   
70.10   Through highways
   
70.11   Officer may remove ignition key
   
70.12   Removal of vehicles after accidents
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.21   Signal lights
   
70.22   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.23   Ambiguous or non-working traffic signals
   
70.24   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.25   Reserved
   
70.26   Unauthorized signs and signals prohibited
   
70.27   Alteration, defacement or removal prohibited
   
70.28   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.29   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.40   Authority of Chief of Police
   
70.41   Traffic-control map and file
   
70.42   Impounding of vehicles; redemption
   
70.43   Impounding vehicles on private residential or agricultural property
   
70.44   Private tow-away zones
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, general regulations, see
Chapter 95
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see R.C. § 4511.07
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, see R.C. R.C. § 2913.03
   Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see R.C. § 4511.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this title,
Chapter 95 and the penal laws of the municipality. For the purpose of this
title and
Chapter 95, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of the other vehicles and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic and any street or highway that has been declared an
ALLEY by the legislative authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers and
used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing arrangement
and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire or funeral car, other than a
taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement, designed and used
for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business or within or outside
the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of 300 feet
or more is occupied by buildings in use for business and the character of the
territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire on an hourly basis pursuant to a
prearranged contract for the transportation of passengers on public roads and
highways along a route under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and
not over a defined and regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an
agreement, made in advance of boarding, to provide transportation from a
specific location in an chauffeured limousine at a fixed rate per hour or trip.
CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in
the business of funeral directing.
(R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
   CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER and TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. These terms shall
have the same meanings as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon
or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a portion of the
other vehicles or the load thereon or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the legislative authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   DRIVER or OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control
of a vehicle.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety or local authorities and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of the nature or in the packing that it is impossible to procure a simultaneous
or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life, limb or
property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion or by a detonator, such as
fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power- operated traffic control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100 pounds
that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has
an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour
when propelled by the electric motor.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way  to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes and other equipment used in construction work and not designed for
or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery, well-
drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 mph or
less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including, but not limited to, motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle”, “motor scooter”, “autocycle”, “cab-
enclosed motorcycle”, or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE OR MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled and that
is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters piston
displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower and is capable of
propelling the vehicle at a speed of no greater than 20 mph on a level surface.
The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self- propelled vehicle designed for and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
mph.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   PARKING or PARKED. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1) A violation of R.C. §§ 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132, 4511.16,
4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.452,
4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511, 4511.53,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61,
4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71, 4511.711,
4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78 or 4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. §§ 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D) or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3) or (4) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township or county and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The state’s Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether the vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver and includes RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENTS known as carpools,
vanpools and buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, RIGHT-OF-WAY includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Means wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state,
county, and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY means any roadway separately, but not
all the roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private or governmental agency or institution of learning
and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function or owned by a private person and operated for compensation
for the transportation of children to or from a school session or a school
function; provided SCHOOL BUS does not include a bus operated by a municipally
owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating exclusively
within the territorial limits of a municipality or within the limits and the
territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to the
municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public Utilities
Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the transportation of
children to and from a school session or a school function and SCHOOL BUS does
not include a van or bus used by a licensed child day- care center or Type A
Familyday-care home to transport children from the child day-care center or
Type A family day-care home to a school if the van or bus does not have more
than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non-motorized
users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
line of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities; provided that, the
authority conferred upon the Director of  Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING or STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even
momentarily, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
open to the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular
travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway, as provided in §
72.085.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 mph and a vehicle
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more than 25
mph.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that VEHICLE does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982; Am. Ord. 02-43, passed 8-5-
2002)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property; and/or
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit; and/or
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
Cross-reference:
   Resisting arrest, see §
130.04
§ 70.03 EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 70.04 EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.02, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while
actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from the work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66 and 4513.02 and R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09 and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. §§ 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66
or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (2)    This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681 and 4511.69 and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (F)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38 and
4511.66 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to a
coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle in
accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 70.05 PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Every person riding, driving or leading an animal upon a roadway is
subject to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned by or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county or municipality and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to
violate any of the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting the use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code or
otherwise regulating the use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.07 NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in or during the, violation of any section of the Revised Code or of
any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the case,
upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the names
of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a request
for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as possible
after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.08 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)    Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal- drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded
animals; a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the
roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked
for bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-
driven cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower;
an agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public
works or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of a freeway, see R.C. § 4511.011
§ 70.09 LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE AT
DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(R.C. § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 70.10 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways; provided
that, stop signs, yield signs or traffic-control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with the through highways by the Department of Transportation
as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities as to highways
under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section. Where
two or more state routes that are through highways intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section. Whenever the
Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop traffic on a
through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this section shall
be construed to prevent the installations. When circumstances warrant, the
Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through highways
under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or removes a
stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in writing, of that
proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30 days before
installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street; provided that, in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate the street or highway or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at the intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting the through highways or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65)
§ 70.11 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 70.12 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of police in the
municipal corporation, township, or township, port authority, or joint police
district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition.
(R.C. § 4513.66) (Rev. 2016)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle unless the operator is
incapacitated, seriously injured, or otherwise unavailable to accept the
estimate. The towing service shall not submit such an estimate to any repair
facility or storage facility to which the motor vehicle is transported unless
the operator of the motor vehicle meets one of the conditions specified above.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing
service shall not charge fees for the towing and storage of the motor vehicle
that exceed 25% of the fees authorized under R.C. § 4513.601(G)(1)(b) for a
motor vehicle removed from a private tow-away zone.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (C) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A)) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A)-(C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C)) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications,
see R.C. § 4511.11
   Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, permission required, see
R.C. § 4511.10
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 70.21 SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u- turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a
pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control device, shall not cross
the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right- of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)    The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways; and
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.132)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk” or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions.
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don't
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 RESERVED.
§ 70.26 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is a public
nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27 ALTERATION, DEFACEMENT OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal or any
inscription, shield or insignia on the device, sign or signal or any part of
the device, sign or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition and is marked by flags, markers, signs or other devices
intended to protect it; and/or
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly tamper with
a manhole cover.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17)
Statutory reference:
   Possession or sale of traffic-control device prohibited, exceptions, see
R.C. § 4511.18
§ 70.28 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess or sell, a traffic
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18)
§ 70.29 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic- control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14) or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3) or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.40 AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, with the approval of Council, for the purpose of
determining the effectiveness of methods of traffic control different from the
provisions of the traffic code or ordinances of the village, shall have power:
      (1)   To designate streets or parts of streets upon which there shall be
parking for a limited time or no parking at any time and to establish rules and
regulations in regard to parking on public parking lots;
      (2)   To determine the location of truck loading and unloading zones and
to place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the
hours during which the provisions regarding truck zones shall be applicable;
      (3)   To determine the location of bus loading and unloading zones and to
place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the zones;
      (4)   To determine the right and left side of landed streets by fixing
and marking or designating the center line of the street;
      (5)   To determine the number of lanes for streets and the direction of
travel in the lanes by appropriate signs and marking indicating the lanes and
direction of travel;
      (6)   To designate streets as one-way streets by placing and maintaining
appropriate signs indicating the streets as one-way streets and the direction
of travel;
      (7)   To prohibit left-hand turns by vehicles at street intersections
designated by him or her;
      (8)   To close temporarily any streets or portions of the same or
restrict the use thereof, when required by public safety or convenience;
      (9)   To determine the maximum speed that motor vehicles may travel on
the public streets and in the public parks in the village;
      (10)   To place and maintain such additional traffic control devices as
he or she may deem necessary to regulate, guide and warn traffic, consistent
with the provisions of all ordinances pertaining to traffic control in the
village;
      (11)   To designate and maintain by appropriate devices, marks or lines
upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his
opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at
such other places as he may deem necessary; and
      (12)   To issue parade permits designating routes of march.
   (B)   All such rules and regulations promulgated by the Chief of Police
shall be filed in the office of the Mayor and a copy retained by the Chief of
Police in the Police Department, maintained in a similar book and dated with
the effective date thereof.
   (C)   The rules so promulgated pursuant to this section shall be effective
upon the erection of signs and such lines or marking as required, sufficient in
number and in such locations as to apprise the ordinary, observant person of
the regulations.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 70.41 TRAFFIC-CONTROL MAP AND FILE.
   (A)   Establishment of map. There is hereby established a traffic-control
map to show at all times the municipality's current:
      (1)   Through streets;
      (2)   Stop intersections;
      (3)   Yield right-of-way;
      (4)   One-way streets and alleys;
      (5)   Loading zones;
      (6)   Prohibited and limited parking areas;
      (7)   Angle parking areas;
      (8)   Parking meter zones; and
      (9)   Traffic-control signals.
   (B)   Adoption; maintenance. The traffic-control map shall be prepared and
kept on file in the Police Department and it shall be maintained by the Police
Department. The traffic-control map is adopted by reference and is incorporated
as a part of the traffic code.
   (C)   Traffic-control file.
      (1)   There is hereby established a traffic-control file which shall be
prepared and kept to date by the Police Department and maintained in the Police
Department office. The file shall constitute the permanent and official record
of through streets, stop intersections, one-way streets, loading zones,
prohibited and limited parking areas, parking meter zones and traffic-control
signals.
      (2)   The traffic-control file is incorporated as part of this traffic
code.
      (3)   The traffic-control file shall include the following information:
         (a)   Type of traffic-control designation;
         (b)   Complete description of the street or area affected;
         (c)   Number of ordinance authorizing designation;
         (d)   Effective date of ordinance;
         (e)   Date proper signs and markings were erected;
         (f)   Date recorded upon traffic-control map; and
         (g)   Traffic-control signals.
   (D)   Amendments. Amendments to the traffic-control map and the traffic-
control file shall be made by regulations of the Chief of Police or by
legislation passed by the Council. Upon the effective date of the legislation
and upon the erection of proper signs and markings giving notice thereof,
amendments shall be in full force and effect. All such amendments shall be
recorded on the official traffic-control map and the official traffic-control
file.
   (E)   Violation. After the effective date of any ordinance regulating the
control of traffic by amending the traffic-control map and the erection of
signs giving notice thereof, any person upon being found guilty of violating
any such traffic-control area regulation shall be punished as provided in §
70.99.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 70.42 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (A)    Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal of a
vehicle under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge or
causeway and is so illegally parked so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction
to the normal movement of traffic, or so as to unreasonably interfere with
street cleaning or snow removal operations.
      (2)   When any vehicle or "abandoned junk motor vehicle" as defined in
R.C. § 4513.63 is left unattended as provided in that section.
      (3)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner and is located upon either public or private property.
      (4)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to
display the current lawfully required plates and is located upon any public
street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
      (5)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission
of a felony and is located upon either public or private property.
      (6)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable
or violates equipment provisions of this Traffic Code, the Revised Code and/or
any federal statute or regulation pertaining to motor vehicles and/or
commercial motor vehicles whereby its continued operation would constitute a
condition hazardous to life, limb or property, and is located upon any public
street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended either on public or private
property due to the removal of an ill, injured or arrested operator, or due to
the abandonment thereof by the operator during or immediately after pursuit by
a law enforcement officer.
      (8)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of an accident or collision and is located either on public or
private property.
      (9)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his license has been suspended or revoked and
is located upon a public street or other property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking.
      (10)   When any vehicle is found for which two or more citation tags for
violations of this Traffic Code and/or the Revised Code have been issued and
the owner or operator thereof has failed to respond to such citation tags as
lawfully required, and is located upon a public street or other property open
to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking.
   (B)   Any vehicle removed under authority of division (A)(2) hereof shall be
ordered into storage and/or disposed of as provided under R.C. § 4513.60 et
seq. Any other vehicle removed under authority of this section shall be ordered
into storage and the police shall forthwith notify the registered vehicle owner
of the fact of such removal and impounding, reasons therefor and the place of
storage. Any person desiring to redeem an impounded vehicle shall appear at the
Police Department to furnish satisfactory evidence of identity and ownership or
right to possession. Prior to issuance of a release form, the claimant, owner
or operator shall either pay the amount due for any fines for violations on
account of which such vehicle was impounded or, as the court may require, post
a bond in an amount set by the court to appear to answer to such violations.
The impound operator shall release such vehicle upon the receipt of the release
form and payment of all towage and storage charges.
   (C)   No owner or operator shall remove an impounded vehicle from the place
of storage without complying with the above procedure. Possession of a vehicle
which has been impounded and unlawfully taken from the place of storage, shall
constitute prima-facie evidence that it was so removed by the owner or
operator.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982; Am. Ord. 95-58, passed 7-3-1995; Am. Ord. 2017-
22, passed 4-3-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Disposition of unclaimed, junked and abandoned motor vehicles, see R.C. §§
4513.60 et seq.
§ 70.43 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES ON PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL OR AGRICULTURAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Chief of Police upon complaint of any person adversely affected
may order into storage any motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk motor
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4513.63, left on private agricultural property
without permission of person having right to possession of property for at
least four hours, or that has been left at a repair garage or a place of
storage for a period longer than agreed upon, consistently with the
requirements and provisions of R.C. § 4513.60(A)-(C) in order to comply with
this section.
   (B)   (1)   The owner or lienholder of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage pursuant to division (A) of this section may reclaim it upon both of
the following:
         (a)   Payment of the following fees:
            1.   Not more than $90 for the removal of the motor vehicle.
However, if the motor vehicle has a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating
in excess of 10,000 pounds, and is a truck, bus or a combination of a
commercial tractor and trailer or semitrailer, not more than $150 for the
removal.
            2.   Not more than $12 per 24 hour period for the storage of the
motor vehicle. However, if the motor vehicle has a manufacturer's gross vehicle
weight rating in excess of 10,000 pounds and is a truck, bus or a combination
of a commercial tractor and trailer or semitrailer, not more than $20 per 24-
hour period for storage.
         (b)   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a
certificate of title to the motor vehicle, a certificate of registration for
the motor vehicle, or a lease agreement.
      (2)   Upon presentation of proof of ownership, as required under division
(B)(1)(b) of this section, the owner of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage under this section may retrieve any personal items from the motor
vehicle consistently with R.C. § 4513.60(D)(2).
      (3)   If a motor vehicle that is ordered into storage pursuant to this
section remains unclaimed by the owner for 30 days, the procedures established
by R.C. §§ 4513.61 and 4513.62 apply.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any motor
vehicle from any private residential or private agricultural property other
than in accordance with this section or R.C. §§ 4513.61 to 4513.65.
      (2)   No towing service or storage facility shall fail to comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any private residential or private
agricultural property that is established as a private tow-away zone.
   (E)   The owner of any towing service or storage facility that violates
division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2017-22, passed 4-3-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Vehicle left on private residential or private agricultural property without
the permission of person having right to possession of property, see R.C. §
4513.60
   Willfully leaving junk motor vehicles, see R.C. § 4513.65
§ 70.44 PRIVATE TOW-AWAY ZONES.
   (A)   The owner of private property may establish a private tow-away zone,
but may do so only if all of the requirements of R.C. § 4513.601 are satisfied.
Vehicles in violation of this section may be removed and dealt with in
accordance with the strictures of R.C. § 4513.601(A)-(F).
   (B)   (1)   The owner or lienholder of a vehicle that is removed under
division (A) of this section may reclaim it upon all of the following:
         (a)   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a
certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle, or a lease agreement;
         (b)   Payment of the following fees:
            1.   Not more than $90 for the removal of the vehicle. However, if
the vehicle has a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating in excess of
10,000 pounds and is a truck, bus or a combination of a commercial tractor and
trailer or semitrailer, not more than $150 for the removal.
            2.   Not more than $12 per 24-hour period for the storage of the
vehicle. However, if the vehicle has a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight
rating in excess of 10,000 pounds and is a truck, bus, or a combination of a
commercial tractor and trailer or semitrailer, not more than $20 per 24-hour
period for storage.
            3.   If notice has been sent to the owner and lienholder as
described in R.C. § 4513.601(F) of this section, a processing fee of $25.
      (2)   A towing service or storage facility in possession of a vehicle
that is removed under authority of division (A) of this section shall show the
vehicle owner, operator, or lienholder who contests the removal of the vehicle
all photographs taken of the vehicle as required by R.C. § 4513.601(D). Upon
request, the towing service or storage facility shall provide copies of all
photographs in the medium in which the photographs are stored, whether paper,
electronic, or otherwise.
      (3)   Upon presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by
a certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle, or a lease agreement, the owner of a vehicle that is removed
under authority of division (A) of this section may retrieve any personal items
from the vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any fee. For
purposes of this section, "personal items" do not include any items that are
attached to the vehicle.
   (C)   No towing service or storage facility shall remove, or cause the
removal of, any vehicle from private property that is established as a private
tow-away zone under this section, store such a vehicle other than in accordance
with this section, or otherwise fail to comply with any applicable requirement
of this section.
   (D)   This section does not affect or limit the operation of R.C. §§ 4513.60
or 4513.61 to 4613.65 as they relate to property other than private property
that is established as a private tow-away zone under division (A) of this
section.
   (E)   The owner of any towing service or storage facility or property owner
that violates the requirements of either division (B) of this section or R.C. §
4513.601(H), violates this section, and is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2017-22, passed 4-3-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Private two-away zones, see R.C. § 4513.601
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for which no
penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   “Distracted” means doing either of the following while operating
a vehicle:
            1.   Using a handheld electronic wireless communications device, as
defined in R.C. § 4511.204, except when utilizing any of the following:
               a.   The device’s speakerphone function;
               b.   A wireless technology standard for exchanging data over
short distances;
               c.   A “voice-operated or hands-free” device that allows the
person to use the electronic wireless communications device without the use of
either hand except to activate, deactivate, or initiate a feature or function;
               d.   Any device that is physically or electronically integrated
into the motor vehicle.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   “Distracted” does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (c)   “Distracted” does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (B)(1)(c):
            UTILITY means an entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D),
(E), or (G).
            UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE means a vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
   (C)   The court may require a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to
a misdemeanor tomake restitution for all or part of the property damage that is
caused by his or her offense.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (D)   Whoever violates §
73.04 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for a term of not more
than 60 days or both.
(Ord. 87-42, passed 6-20-1987; Am. Ord. 88-71, passed 12-19-1988)
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of Chapter 76, for which no other
penalty is provided in this section or otherwise, shall be fined $10.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
76.07(F) shall be fined $25.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
76.02 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (4)   If a parking violation ticket remains unpaid for 72 hours, the
owner or operator of the motor vehicle to which the parking citation was
affixed shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   Each unpaid parking citation shall be considered as a separate
offense.
      (6)   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of
Chapter 76 for which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay the sum
in the manner prescribed on the issued parking citation. The payment shall be
deemed a plea of guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of
conviction of the alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of
the prescribed penalty for the alleged violation.
(Ord. 94-28, passed 4-18-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see R.C. § 2929.22
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Sexually oriented misdemeanor, see R.C. § 2929.23
   Where imprisoned related to offense, see R.C. § 2929.34
CHAPTER 71: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Display of license plates or validation stickers; registration
   
71.02   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.03   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.04   Improper plates or registration
   
71.05   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
71.06   Display of certificate of registration
   
71.07   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.08   Operating without dealer or manufacturer license plates
Driver's Licenses
   
71.15   Prohibited acts
   
71.16   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.17   License required as driver or commercial driver on public or private
property; nonresident exception
   
71.18   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited
   
71.19   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.20   Suspension of driver’s license; license suspended by court of record
   
71.21   Display of license
   
71.22   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.23   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.24   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.25   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.26   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.27   Failure to reinstate license
Commercial Driver's Licenses
   
71.35   Prerequisites to operation of commercial motor vehicle
   
71.36   Prohibited acts
   
71.37   Criminal offenses
   
71.38   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
   
71.39   Definitions
   
71.40   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
   
71.41   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
   
71.42   Application of federal regulations
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Commercial driver's licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4506
   Driver's licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4507
   Motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. Chapter 4504
   Municipal motor vehicle license tax, see R.C. § 4504.06
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Point system for motor vehicle violations, see R.C. § 4510.036
   Proof of financial responsibility required; civil penalties; peace officers
as agents of Registrar of Motor Vehicles; procedures and rules, see R.C. §§
4509.101 et seq.
   Suspension of driver's licenses, see R.C. §§ 4507.16 et seq.
   Suspension of driver's licenses; municipal power to suspend for a period not
to exceed time permitted or required by state law, see R.C. § 4510.05
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A)) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.173, 4503.41,
4503.43 and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a motor vehicle
operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail to file
annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (C)   (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) of this section, RESIDENT means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (D)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A))
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (F)(3)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D))
§ 71.02 IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4503.05)
§ 71.03 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236)
§ 71.04 IMPROPER PLATES OR REGISTRATION.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful to operate or park any vehicle upon which is
displayed a license plate for any period of time which has expired or any
license plate issued in another state for which the period or reciprocal
agreement with the state of issue has expired.
   (B)    It shall be unlawful to operate or park any vehicle upon which is
displayed a license plate not legally registered and issued for the vehicle or
upon which is displayed a license plate that was issued on an application for
registration that contained any false statement by the applicant.
   (C)    It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle upon which is displayed
the license plates assigned to the vehicle upon its registration by a former
owner.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.173, 4503.41,
4503.43 and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a motor vehicle
operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail to file
annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(R.C. 4503.11(A), (C))
   (E)   Whoever violates division (A) through (C) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a clerk of a court of common
pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a clerk of a court of
common pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in the respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
“Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act”, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15
U.S.C. § 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18)
§ 71.06 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a COMMERCIAL CAR, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01,
when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law, shall,
when operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the streets, roads
or highways of this municipality display inside or on the vehicle the
certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
provided for in R.C. § 4503.19 or shall carry the certificate on the operator’s
person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
commercial car certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18)
§ 71.07 USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08)
§ 71.08 OPERATING WITHOUT DEALER OR MANUFACTURER LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays two placards, except as provided ln R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that bear the registration number of its manufacturer
or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10)
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.15 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious or to have been canceled, suspended or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)    In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s
statement required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30)
Statutory reference:
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 71.16 PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A)) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A)
and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998 and who has not attained the age of
18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private
property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking between
the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of the operation, the holder is
accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian or custodian and the parent,
guardian or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(A).
(R.C. § 4507.05(F))
   (C)   (1)   (a)    No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1) of this section, division (C)(1)
(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency
existed that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to
operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER. Of a probationary license holder includes any of the
following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
and
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION. Any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. MOVING
VIOLATION does not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or a violation of any statute or ordinance
regulating pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load
limitations, vehicle fitness requirements or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. The same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I))
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3) or (F) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J))
§ 71.17 LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY; NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver’s license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28
(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to $1,000; and, notwithstanding R.C. §
2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant to R.C. § 2929.27(C) to
serve a term of community service of up to 500 hours. The failure of an
offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be
punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. § 2705.02(A) that may be
filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A)) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   (1)    No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 mph or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 mph unless the person has a current, valid driver’s or
commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with the duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
the person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent a person or
the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as provided in
R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or motorcycle
operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the renewal of a
commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s active duty or
service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that the nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate the motor vehicle and to establish
proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04)
   (D)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver’s license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (D)(2)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (D)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213)
§ 71.18 EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of CHAUFFEUR in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321)
§ 71.19 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3), or (A)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that
the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be
sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to R.C. § 2929.26;
notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to 500
hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203 (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203)
§ 71.20 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is substantially
equivalent to a provision of the Revised Code and a court is permitted or
required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to any other
penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or non resident operating privileges for the period
of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of suspension imposed
for the violation of the provision of this code shall not exceed the period of
suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for the violation of the
provision of the Revised Code to which the provision of this code is
substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15)
§ 71.21 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28
(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to $1,000; and notwithstanding R.C. §
2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant to R.C. § 2929.27(C) to
serve a term of community service of up to 500 hours. The failure of an
offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be
punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. § 2705.02(A) that may be
filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35)
§ 71.22 PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36)
§ 71.23 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.26 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, other than R.C.
Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which
the person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any other
sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
registrar of the termination. The registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an
accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the
offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the
offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
(a) or division (B)(3)(b) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender
shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a
community residential sanction pursuant to R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding R.C.
§ 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to $1,000; and,
notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to 500 hours. The
failure of an offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the
court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. § 2705.02(A)
that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under division
(A) of this section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a
valid permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 71.24 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
registrar of motor vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the registrar, upon a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28
(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to $1,000; and, notwithstanding R.C. §
2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant to R.C. § 2929.27(C) to
serve a term of community service of up to 500 hours. The failure of an
offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be
punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. § 2705.02(A) that may be
filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was
expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12)
§ 71.25 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation of
a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public roads
or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section; and
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The ten-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section; and
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)    If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with division R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal indigent
drivers alcohol treatment fund under the control of that court, as created by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding
a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
   (F)    The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an
accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the
offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the
offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this section for which
the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. The same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section; and/or
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL. The same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. The mandatory term in jail of three, ten or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3)
of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision of
the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.26 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21 to
2929.28, except that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the
offender shall not be sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be
fined up to $1,000; and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may
be ordered pursuant to R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service
of up to 500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community
service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt
under R.C. § 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.27 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to§§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28
(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to $1,000; and, notwithstanding R.C. §
2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant to R.C. § 2929.27(C) to
serve a term of community service of up to 500 hours. The failure of an
offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be
punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. § 2705.02(A) that may be
filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSES
§ 71.35 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) or (C) of this section, the
following shall apply.
      (1)    No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this state unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession, any of
the following:
         (a)   A valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for
the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or by
another jurisdiction recognized by this state;
         (b)   A valid examiner’s commercial driving permit issued under R.C. §
4506.13;
         (c)   A valid restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for
farm-related service industries issued under R.C. § 4506.24;
         (d)   A valid commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
issued by the Registrar, provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license and who meets the requirements of R.C. § 4506.06(B).
      (2)   No person’s commercial driver’s license temporary instruction
permit shall be upgraded, and no commercial driver’s license shall be upgraded,
renewed, or issued to a person until the person surrenders to the registrar of
motor vehicles all valid licenses and permits issued to the person by this
state or by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. If the license or
permit was issued by any other state or another jurisdiction recognized by this
state, the Registrar shall report the surrender of a license or permit to the
issuing authority, together with information that a license or permit is now
issued in this state. The Registrar shall destroy any such license or permit
that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued in another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, joint fire district, or the State Fire Marshal;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding or salting, but only
if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued under
R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for these
purposes is unable to operate the vehicle or the employing eligible unit of
local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that requires
additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 383.5,
as amended and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921 or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by
individuals not for compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial
enterprise; and
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle;
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in division (B)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this
state concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
(R.C. § 4506.03(A) - (C))
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the “Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986", 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App., for issuance of commercial
driver’s licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or permit is not
suspended, revoked or canceled;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of-service order;
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506.
         (a)   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty.
         (b)   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system shall have in
the person’s possession when on duty the original or a copy of the current
medical examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar. However,
the person may operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical
certification for not more than 15 days after the date the current medical
examiner’s certificate was issued to the person.
         (c)   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
   (E)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this
municipality if the person does not meet the conditions specified in division
(D) of this section.
   (F)   Except as set forth in 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.62, 391.67,
and 391.68, no person holding a commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit or a commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter
4506 may drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce until the
person is at least 21 years of age.
(R.C. § 4506.05(A))
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under divisions (D), (E) and (F) of this
section are strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.03(D), 4506.05(D))
§ 71.36 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked or cancelled or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
and
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (C)    No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I))
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (3)    (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (C) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J))
§ 71.37 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. § 4511.191,
or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including, but not limited to, the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§ 4511.61 through 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance.
(R.C. § 4506.15(A))
   (B)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license or permit to a peace officer when required to do so
by R.C. § 4506.17.
(R.C. § 4506.17(H))
   (C)   (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority,
any peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (A)
of this section without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to
believe that a violation of division (A) of this section has been committed and
a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum,
breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an
appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after
being warned as provided in R.C. § 4506.17(C) or submits to a test that
discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of
.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of .048% or
more by blood serum or blood plasma or an alcohol concentration of .056% or
more by urine, the peace officer shall require that the person immediately
surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the
limits within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a
warrant under R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers
of the State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person
who, in the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C.§§ 4506.15(B), 4506.17(N))
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
R.C. § 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 71.38 EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers; and
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (D)    No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), or (D) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20)
§ 71.39 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following:
      (1)   One hundred milliliters of whole blood, blood serum or blood
plasma;
      (2)   Two hundred ten liters of breath; and
      (3)   One hundred milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4506 that authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1986”, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including, but not limited to, a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act”, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308, as amended; and
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation or cancellation of a person’s privileges
to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391.
   DOMICILED. Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence to which
an individual intends to return.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in division R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C. §
4729.01 or over- the-counter medication that, when taken in quantities
exceeding the recommended dosage, can result in impairment of judgment or
reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license that
is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products and in the transportation to
the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the farm,
including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in agricultural,
floricultural, horticultural, livestock and poultry production and livestock,
poultry and other animals and things used for breeding, feeding or other
purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the truck is operated
in accordance with this definition and is not used in the operations of a motor
carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The GROSS VEHICLE
WEIGHT RATING of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. part
172, subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury or a substantial
endangerment to health, property or the environment may occur before the
reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun to lessen
the risk of death, illness, injury or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued a
medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile communication device that falls under or uses any
commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20, except that
mobile telephone does not include two-way or citizens band radio services.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer or semitrailer propelled
or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that the term does not
include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01
   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be loaded
onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids, mountings or
accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially similar law of another state or political subdivision of another
state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         (b)   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 mph or more;
         (b)   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or 4511.201 or any substantially
equivalent ordinance or resolution or of any substantially equivalent law of
another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or 4511.34 or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport any
liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are either permanently
or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and have an individual
rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate rated capacity of
1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial motor vehicle
transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   TESTER. A person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement entered into
pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. Texting includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication  using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
Texting does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   UNITED STATES. The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-certified
status as described in division R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability
of a current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor
vehicles under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   VEHICLE. The same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01)
§ 71.40 USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011)
§ 71.41 PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71
one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, as applicable:
         (a)   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to
and meets the requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted interstate and shall provide the
Registrar with the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and
each subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate;
         (b)   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and
is subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall
self-certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E))
§ 71.42 APPLICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. part 383, subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99)
Cross-reference:
   For misdemeanor penalty provisions, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Lanes of travel upon roadways
   
72.002   Driving through safety zone
   
72.003   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.004   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.005   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.006   Driving to left of center line
   
72.007   Prohibition against driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.008   Hazardous zones
   
72.009   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.010   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.011   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.012   Divided roadways
   
72.013   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.014   U-turns and turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.015   Starting and backing vehicles
   
72.016   Turn and stop signals
   
72.017   Hand and arm signals
   
72.018   Toy vehicles and games on streets
   
72.019   Operation of certain vehicles prohibited
   
72.020   Golf carts
Right-of-Way
   
72.030   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.031   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.032   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.033   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.034   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.035   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of- way
   
72.036   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.037   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.038   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.039   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of- way
   
72.040   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.041   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
Pedestrians
   
72.055   Pedestrian movement in crosswalks
   
72.056   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
72.057   Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
72.058   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.059   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.060   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.061   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
72.062   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
72.063   Low-speed micromobility devices
Grade Crossings
   
72.070   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.071   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.072   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.073   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
   
72.074   Obstruction of railroad crossing in excess of five minutes prohibited
Through Highways
   
72.085   Through highways
Prohibitions
   
72.095   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.096   Occupying travel trailer while in motion
   
72.097   Prohibition against driving upon closed highway
   
72.098   Driving or parking upon sidewalk area or paths exclusively for
bicycles
   
72.099   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.100   Following an emergency or public vehicle is prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle and certain other vehicles with caution
   
72.101   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.102   Placing injurious material on highway or depositing litter from motor
vehicle
   
72.103   Transporting child not in child- restraint system prohibited
   
72.104   Occupant restraining devices
   
72.105   Reserved
   
72.106   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.107   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.108   Operating traction engine upon improved highways
   
72.109   Duty to replace barrier or lights or notify police
   
72.110   Moving vehicle without driver's consent
   
72.111   Stopping on Holland Street
   
72.112   Engine braking prohibited
   
72.113   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.114   Texting while driving prohibited
   
72.115   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
School Buses
   
72.125   Regulations concerning school buses
   
72.126   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
72.127   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.128   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
72.129   School bus inspection
   
72.130   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
72.131   Registration and identification of school buses
   
72.132   School bus marking
   
72.133   Flashing light signal lamps
   
72.134   Occupant restraining device for operator
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Operating of school buses, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-3
   Standards for school buses, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-5
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 LANES OF TRAVEL UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction or when making a left turn under the rules governing the movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within the distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
the passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn; and/or
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.002 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60)
§ 72.003 VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26)
§ 72.004 RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction.
      (1)    The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02 or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27)
§ 72.005 PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28)
§ 72.006 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29)
§ 72.007 PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or §
72.001(A)(2).
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30)
§ 72.008 HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of the zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30 or §
72.007.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location;
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit; and/or
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 72.009 ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated, in
conformity with §
70.41.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32)
§ 72.010 RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply.
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance
or when preparing for a left turn or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding and is posted with signs to give notice of the allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of the signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33)
§ 72.011 SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34)
§ 72.012 DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across or within any dividing space, barrier or section, except through an
opening, crossover or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35)
§ 72.013 RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules.
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right- hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections and
thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in this
section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection and when markers,
buttons or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn the vehicle
at an intersection other than as directed and required by the markers, buttons
or signs.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36)
§ 72.014 U-TURNS AND TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if the vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37)
§ 72.015 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties; and
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38)
§ 72.016 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)    When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane and a
signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the distance
from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of
the body, cab or load of the motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches or when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of
the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39)
§ 72.017 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward; and
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)    As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40)
§ 72.018 TOY VEHICLES AND GAMES ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person riding in or by means of any sled, toy vehicle or similar
device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a crosswalk.
   (B)   No person shall play at any games within the street areas.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982; Am. Ord. 02-43, passed 8-5-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.019 OPERATION OF CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall operate any snowmobile, unlicensed all-
terrain vehicle, utility vehicle, three or four-wheel utility vehicle or dirt
bike on the public highways and streets or on any public property located
within the village.
   (B)   No person or persons shall operate or park any vehicle, whether
animal-drawn or motor propelled, on any public or private school playground
area or lawn, or any public property, park or lawn within the village unless
such operation falls within the following exceptions:
      (1)   Where the operation or parking of the vehicle is required for the
maintenance of the area involved;
      (2)   Where the operation or parking of the vehicle is upon public
roadways where such operation or parking is permitted, or the area involved is
an established parking area;
      (3)   Where permission is first obtained or otherwise granted in writing
from the proper village authority.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be deemed guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982; Am. Ord. 2021-82, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 72.020 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      GOLF CART. A motor vehicle as that term is defined under R.C. § 4501.01
(B). Most golf carts are a type of under speed vehicle (USV). A USV is a four
wheeled vehicle other than a truck that is originally designed and constructed
with a top attainable speed of 20 mph or less or is not originally designed or
constructed for operation on a street or highway. It may not be operated on a
public street or highway unless it complies with R.C. Chapter 4513.
      INSPECTION. That inspection that is required by O.A.C. §§ 4501:2-1-01
through 4501:2-1-21.
      OPERATOR. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle (see R.C. § 4501.01(X)).
      PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSI-BILITY. Has the same meaning as set forth in
R.C. § 4509.01(K).
      REGISTRATION. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 4503.10(A).
   (B)   Inspection of golf carts.
      (1)   No person shall operate a golf cart on those streets permitted by
this chapter in the village unless the golf cart has been inspected by the
Chief of Police or his or her designee for compliance with the state's
statutory requirements that are applicable to motor vehicles.
      (2)   The inspection must be prearranged with the Chief of Police or his
or her designee.
      (3)   The owner of any golf cart shall be required to pay an inspection
fee of $50. This inspection fee shall be deposited into the general fund. If
the Chief of Police or his or her designee determines that the golf cart
complies with the state’s statutory requirements that are applicable to motor
vehicles, the Chief of Police or his or her designee shall issue the owner a
certificate of compliance entitling the owner to register, apply for a title
and purchase license plates for the vehicle. The owner must also show the Chief
of Police or his or her designee a valid Ohio operator’s license (driver’s
license) and proof of financial responsibility for the golf cart before the
certificate of compliance is issued.
      (4)   If the owner of a golf cart has had the cart inspected, registered
and titled, prior to the effective date of this chapter or moves to the village
after the effective date of this chapter, but previously having had the golf
cart inspected by an authorized inspection program, in order to legally operate
the vehicle in the village, the owner/operator must still provide evidence of
an inspection in compliance with the state’s statutory requirements.
   (C)   Golf carts are permitted to operate on all village streets where the
posted speed limit is 40 mph or less, except for SR66 south of Short Buehrer
Road and SR66 north of Lutz Road within Archbold Corporation limits provided
they comply with all state and local laws.
      (1)   No person shall operate a golf cart on designated streets of the
village unless the operator has a valid Ohio operator’s license (driver’s
license), a valid registration for the vehicle and proof of financial
responsibility.
      (2)   Occupants of golf carts governed by this section shall be seated at
all times, on the seat of the golf cart when the golf cart is in motion.
Standing on any portion of the golf cart when it is in motion is prohibited.
The number of riders including the driver shall not exceed the number of lawful
seats installed on the vehicle.
      (3)   Vehicles used exclusively for industrial use within an M-
1 Restricted Industrial or M-2 General Industrial zone are exempt from this
section.
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates this chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   On each subsequent offense after the second offense within one year
after the first offense the person is guilty of misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(Ord. 10-66, passed 11-8-2010; Am. Ord. 11-57, passed 9-19-2011; Am. Ord. 2022-
57, passed 10-17-2022)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.030 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41)
§ 72.031 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42)
§ 72.032 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of- way.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43)
§ 72.033 STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road
or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the vehicle
immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road or driveway or in the event
there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to be
entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2) or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the
driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed
in accordance with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing
such a road or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section and for the purpose of applying R.C. § 4511.43
(A) and R.C. § 4511.46 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION means:
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at or
approximately at, right angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon
different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come in
conflict.
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of the private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER and PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY means that portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
ROADWAY means any such roadway separately but not all the roadways
collectively.
(R.C.§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D))
   (G)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B))
§ 72.034 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44)
§ 72.035 PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right- of-way to any
pedestrian on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441)
§ 72.036 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection
and stop and remain in that position until the public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
§ 72.037 FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or § 72.036 or when directed otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians
and the operators of all vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle
that is a part of a funeral procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral
procession lawfully enters an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in
the procession may continue to follow the lead vehicle through the
intersection, notwithstanding any traffic-control devices or right-of-way
provisions of the Revised Code, provided that the operator of each vehicle
exercises due care to avoid colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451)
§ 72.038 PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF- WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or §
72.036, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety
vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452)
§ 72.039 PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation or are
not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the
right-of- way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield or if required
by R.C. § 4511.132 or §
70.23, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the
pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling
or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the
roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B) or §
72.041(B).
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46)
§ 72.040 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47)
§ 72.041 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to the crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.055 PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49)
§ 72.056 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46 or §§
70.21 and
72.039, any pedestrian upon a roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles upon the roadway.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50)
§ 72.057 PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The legislative authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the Legislative Authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to IRC 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments or workers performing
specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under authority of a
public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 mph, unless either of the following applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
§ 72.058 PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511)
§ 72.059 PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 72.060 INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481)
§ 72.061 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks and
paths or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 mph or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS and KNEE PADS.”
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this Code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 mph.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
§ 72.062 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability
coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from the operation of
the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any agent of the
eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.063 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514) Penalty, see §
70.99
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.070 STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61)
§ 72.071 DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered;
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train;
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed;
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing; and
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62)
§ 72.072 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle or any vehicle transporting material required to be
placarded under 49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade any
track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle and while so stopped, shall listen
through an open door or open window and look in both directions along the track
for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train
and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping, looking and
listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the operator of such a
vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there will be no necessity
for changing gears while traversing the crossing and shall not shift gears
while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to transport 16
or more passengers, including the driver or carries 16 or more passengers,
including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. A highway rail grade crossing authorized and approved by
the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which vehicles may
cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils to and
from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or operated by
or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77 or 4511.79 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those sections,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
§ 72.073 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller or any equipment or structure having a normal operating
speed of six or less mph or a vertical body or load clearance of less than nine
inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon or across any tracks at a
railroad grade crossing without first complying with divisions (A)(1) and (A)
(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates or a flagperson or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment or structure
is not more than three mph, the person owning, operating or moving the same
shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64)
§ 72.074 OBSTRUCTION OF RAILROAD CROSSING IN EXCESS OF FIVE MINUTES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No railroad company shall obstruct or permit or cause to be
obstructed a public street, by permitting a railroad car, locomotive, crossing
gate or other obstruction to remain upon or across it for longer than five
minutes, to the hindrance or inconvenience of travelers or a person passing
along or upon the street.
      (2)   No railroad company shall fail, at the end of each five-minute
period of obstruction of a public street, to cause the railroad car, locomotive
or other obstruction to be removed for sufficient time, not less than three
minutes, to allow the passage of persons and vehicles waiting to cross.
      (3)   Each 60-minute period that a crossing is so obstructed shall
constitute a separate and distinct violation of this section.
   (B)   This section does not apply to obstruction of a public street by a
continuously moving through train or caused by circumstances wholly beyond the
control of the railroad company, but does apply to other obstruction, including
without limitation those caused by stopped trains engaged in switching, loading
or unloading operation.
   (C)   Upon the filing of an affidavit or complaint for violation of this
section, summons shall be issued to the railroad company pursuant to R.C.
2935.10(B), which summons shall be on the regular ticket or freight agent of
the company in the county where the offense occurred.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, "railroad company" includes the
officers, employee and agent, of the company.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(Ord. 98-96, passed 12-7-1998)
THROUGH HIGHWAYS
§ 72.085 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways; provided
that, stop signs, yield signs or traffic-control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with the through highways by the Department of Transportation
as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities as to highways
under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section. Where
two or more state routes that are through highways intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section. Whenever the
Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop traffic on a
through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this section shall
be construed to prevent the installations. When circumstances warrant, the
Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through highways
under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or removes a
stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in writing, of that
proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30 days before
installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street; provided that, in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate the street or highway or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting the through highways or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Through streets, see
Chapter 77, Schedule I
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.095 OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded or when there are
in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the driver
to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere with the driver’s control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70)
§ 72.096 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   No person shall occupy any travel trailer or manufactured or mobile
home while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 72.097 DRIVING UPON CLOSED HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)    No person shall drive upon, along or across a street or highway or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction or repair and posted with appropriate signs by the
authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
§ 72.098 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)    No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A)) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of the use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B))
§ 72.099 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712)
§ 72.100 FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A)) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. § 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle that is displaying a flashing red light, flashing
combination red and white light, oscillating or rotating red light, oscillating
or rotating combination red and white light, flashing blue light, flashing
combination blue and white light, oscillating or rotating blue light or
oscillating or rotating combination blue and white light, shall do either of
the following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. § 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, vehicle used by the Public
Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with
R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle from the duty to
drive with due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the
highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
      (4)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C), (E))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person
operated a motor vehicle in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the
court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine
of two times the usual amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under § 70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
   (D)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this
offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(E))
§ 72.101 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73)
§ 72.102 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street or alley any litter which may damage or injure any
person, vehicle or animal traveling along or upon the highway, except the
substances that may be placed upon the roadway by proper authority for the
repair or construction thereof.
(Ord. 04-55, passed 11-15-2004)
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from the vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles which
may damage or injure any person, vehicle or animal traveling along or upon the
highway, except the substances that may be placed upon the roadway by proper
authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B)) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B))
   (E)   As used in this section:
      GARBAGE. Any putrescible animal and vegetable material resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish and all other waste material which,
if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare.
      REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid material (except body
wastes), including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes, street
cleanings, dead animals, abandoned motor vehicles, used motor vehicle parts,
tires, junk, building materials, solid market and industrial wastes, used
chemical and oil waste and any other similar substances, man-made or otherwise,
which no longer serves the functional use for which it was intended.
      RUBBISH. All nonputrescible solid material consisting of both combustible
and noncombustible matter, including but not limited to, paper, wrappings,
cigarettes, cardboard, tin and aluminum cans, yard clippings, snow removals,
leaves, wood, branches, glass, concrete, dirt, gravel, stone, plaster,
plasterboard, roofing material, nails, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (2), (3) or (4) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 04-55, passed 11-15-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Penalty provisions for division (B), see R.C. § 4511.74(C); for (C), see
R.C. § 4511.82(C)
§ 72.103 TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in §
70.01 and R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States Department of
Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of manufacture or
assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly
secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint
system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age; and
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or day-care center,
the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age; and
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age, but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt the rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C) or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the state’s Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A)-(H), (K), (L))
§ 72.104 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTOMOBILE. Any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car or
truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966”, 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR, PASSENGER CAR and COMMERCIAL CAR. The same meanings
as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death or loss to
person or property. TORT ACTION includes a product liability claim, as defined
in R.C. § 2307.71 and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does
not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another
agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         (a)   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         (b)   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         (c)   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (C)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (C)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (C)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (C)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database
under division (C)(5) of this section is not a public record subject to
inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263)
Cross-reference:
   Child restraint systems, see §
72.103
   Installation and sale of seat safety belts, see §
74.33
   School bus operators, restraining devices, see §
72.134
Statutory reference:
   Evidentiary use of failure to use occupant restraining devices, see R.C. §
4513.263(F)
§ 72.105 RESERVED.
§ 72.106 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
    (A)   As used in this section:
      EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84)
§ 72.107 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (B)    The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (C)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85)
Statutory reference:
   Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. § 4503.24
   Proof of financial responsibility, see R.C. § 4509.80
§ 72.108 OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. TRACTION ENGINE or TRACTOR, as used in this section, applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor or trailer or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 72.109 DUTY TO REPLACE BARRIER OR LIGHTS OR NOTIFY POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is aware that he or she has removed
or damaged any barrier, light or other warning device or who has extinguished
any light, to fail to stop and immediately replace the barrier or other warning
device or relight the light, if extinguished or in lieu thereof to immediately
notify the Police Department that the barrier, light or other warning device
has been damaged, removed or extinguished.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.110 MOVING VEHICLE WITHOUT DRIVER'S CONSENT.
   It shall be unlawful to move a vehicle without the driver's consent into any
place or position which would make the driver or owner liable to punishment for
a violation of this code.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.111 STOPPING ON HOLLAND STREET.
   No operator of a vehicle shall stop for any purpose or reason, including
picking up or dropping off school aged children, on Holland Street between the
intersections of Holland and Eicher Streets and Holland and Ditto Streets,
during the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on those days when school is in
session.
(Ord. 92-26, passed 7-20-1992) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.112 ENGINE BRAKING PROHIBITED
   (A)   No person shall apply an engine brake when operating a motor vehicle
upon a street or highway within the municipality in such a manner as to cause
excessive or unusual noise.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be deemed guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 99-41, passed 8-2-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99 
§ 72.113 SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across the property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on the property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.114 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using a handheld
electronic wireless communications device to write, send, or read a text-based
communication.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner for emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a
law enforcement agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or
other similar emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle who uses a handheld
electronic wireless communications device in that manner in the course of the
person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner whose motor vehicle is in a stationary position and who is
outside a lane of travel;
      (4)   A person reading, selecting, or entering a name or telephone number
in a handheld electronic wireless communications device for the purpose of
making or receiving a telephone call;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on a device regarding the
operation or navigation of a motor vehicle; safety-related information,
including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or data used primarily by the
motor vehicle;
      (6)   A person receiving wireless messages via radio waves;
      (7)   A person using a device for navigation purposes;
      (8)   A person conducting wireless interpersonal communication with a
device that does not require manually entering letters, numbers, or symbols or
reading text messages, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the device
or a feature or function of the device;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications
device in conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free device feature or
function of the vehicle.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on
any street or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (A) of this section has been or is
being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that nature or causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for a violation of that nature, and no law enforcement
officer shall view the interior or visually inspect any automobile being
operated on any street or highway for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of that nature has been or is being committed.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (E)   A prosecution for a violation of this section does not preclude a
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 4511.204 based on the same conduct.
However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this
section and is also convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. §
4511.204 based on the same conduct, the two offenses are allied offenses of
similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS- FREE DEVICE. A device that allows the user to
vocally compose or send, or to listen to a text-based communication without the
use of either hand except to activate or deactivate a feature or function.
      WRITE, SEND, OR READ A TEXT- BASED COMMUNICATION. To manually write or
send, or read a text-based communication using an electronic wireless
communications device, including manually writing or sending, or reading
communications referred to as text messages, instant messages, or electronic
mail.
(R.C. § 4511.204)
Statutory reference:
    No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 72.115 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor
vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an electronic wireless
communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person's driver's license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205)
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.125 REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until the
school bus resumes motion or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or §
72.133 and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type approved by
the state Board of Education, which shall be actuated by the driver of the bus
whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped or stopping on the roadway for
the purpose of receiving or discharging school children, persons attending
programs offered by community boards of mental health and county boards of
developmental disabilities or children attending programs offered by head start
agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate the visual signals or the stop
warning sign in designated school bus loading areas where the bus is entirely
off the roadway or at school buildings when children or persons attending
programs offered by community boards of mental health and county boards of
developmental disabilities are loading or unloading at curbside or at buildings
when children attending programs offered by head start agencies are loading or
unloading at curbside. The visual signals and stop warning sign shall be
synchronized or otherwise operated as required by rule of the Board.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities and children attending programs offered by
head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY. The same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the State Board of Education, is painted the color and displays the
markings described in R.C. § 4511.77 and is equipped with amber and red visual
signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77, irrespective of whether or
not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any time. The term does not
include a van owned and operated by a head start agency, irrespective of its
color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 72.126 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary motor vehicle license registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182
or substantially equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or §
72.125(A), the operator shall report the license plate number and general
description of the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law
enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged
violation occurred. The information contained in the report relating to the
license plate number and to the general description of the vehicle and the
operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation may be supplied by
any person with first- hand knowledge of the information. Information of which
the operator of the school bus has first-hand knowledge also may be
corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or §
72.125(A), the law enforcement agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt
to determine the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. If the identity of the operator at the time of the alleged
violation is established, the reporting of the license plate number of the
vehicle shall establish probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue
a citation for the violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or §
72.125(A). However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751)
§ 72.127 SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or § 72.125 is removed and the word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762 or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77 or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762)
§ 72.128 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Department of Education of
the Department of Public Safety. No person, being the owner thereof or having
the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit the operation of a
vehicle used for pupil transportation within this municipality in violation of
the rules of the Department of Education or the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Department of Education by rule
and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76 or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77 or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (F), (G))
§ 72.129 SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.761 or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77 or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761)
§ 72.130 LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763)
§ 72.131 REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4511.63,
4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77 or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764)
§ 72.132 SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77 or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764 or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77)
§ 72.133 FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77 and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771)
§ 72.134 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease or rent a new school bus unless the school bus has
an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed for
use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772)
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.02   Implied consent
   
73.03   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.04   Physical control
   
73.05   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.06   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.07   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
Reckless Operation
   
73.15   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.16   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.17   Operator to be in reasonable control
Speed Regulations
   
73.30   Speed limits
   
73.31   Slow speed or stopping
   
73.32   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.33   Street racing defined; prohibited on public highways
   
73.34   Unusual noise prohibited; peeling
   
73.35   Speed regulations on bridges
Resisting Officer
   
73.45   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.46   Presenting false name or information to officer
Stopping After Accident
   
73.60   Failure to stop after accident
   
73.61   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
73.62   Accident involving damage to realty
   
73.63   Failure to report accident
Certificate of Registration, Keys, Licenses and Identification
   
73.75   Display of certificate of registration
   
73.76   Officer may remove ignition key
   
73.77   Use of unauthorized plates
   
73.78   Operating without manufacturer or dealer license plates
   
73.79   Operating with number of former owner
   
73.80   Resident operating with number issued by foreign state
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Vehicle accident reports, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-31
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or
a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of .08% or more but less than
.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of .096% or more but less than
.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of .08 grams or more but less
than .17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of .11 grams or more but less
than .238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of .17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of .204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of .17 grams or more by weight of
alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of .238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               A.    The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of marihuana
metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of marihuana
metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at
least five nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               B.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle, streetcar, or trackless trolley within this state, the rule is in
effect, and the person has a concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A
of at least that amount so specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the
person’s whole blood, or in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) or (B) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least .02% but less than .08%
by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least .03% but less than .096%
by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least .02 grams but less than
.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least .028 grams but less than
.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine or
other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or §
73.02 or a blood or urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only
a physician, a registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate,
an emergency medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist
or phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining
the alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance
or combination content of the whole blood, blood serum or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse or a qualified technician,
chemist or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical test
or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
73.02, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)    In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse or alcohol and a drug of abuse or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath or urine, if a law enforcement officer has administered
a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in the violation
and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the officer
administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing standards for
any reliable, credible and generally accepted field sobriety tests that were in
effect at the time the tests were administered, including, but not limited to,
any testing standards then in effect that were set by the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i) or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982; Am. Ord. 84-18, passed 2-20-1984)
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d) or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree and the court shall sentence the offender to all of the
penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i) through (G)(1)
(a)(iv).
         (b)    Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) or (B) of this
section or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and
sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) or (B) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within six years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) or
(B) of this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20
years of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
five or more violations of that nature is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d) or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or
2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an
accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the
offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the
offense for which the offender is sentenced under division (G) of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(6). The court may grant limited driving privileges relative to the suspension
under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving
privileges with an ignition interlock device relative to the suspension and may
reduce the period of suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the
court grants unlimited driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court
shall suspend any jail term imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as
required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
or (B) of this section or other equivalent offense or offenses, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction
imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   If the offender also is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court
imposes a jail term for the violation of division (B) of this section, the
court shall impose upon the offender an additional definite jail term pursuant
to R.C. § 2929.24(E).
      (4)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an
accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the
offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the
violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s indigent drivers’ alcohol
treatment fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M))
   (N)   As used in this section, §§
73.02 and
73.05:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION, CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING, JAIL,
MANDATORY PRISON TERM, MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION, PRISON TERM and
SANCTION. The same meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. The same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2) or former R.C. § 2903.07 or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a combination of them;
         (f)    A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. §4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B).
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. The mandatory term in jail of three, six, ten, 20,
30 or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b) or
(G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE. Any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a combination of them or prohibiting a
person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
Cross-reference:
   Power to suspend driver’s license, see §
33.05
Statutory reference:
   License suspension in OVI cases, see R.C. § 1905.201
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 73.02 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.05, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person's whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)    Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, t he arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.05, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall
give that advice in a written form that contains the information described in
division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form
shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest
and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall
witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form and the witnesses shall
certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the
chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer,
within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does
not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to
submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)    Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form to
the person:
      “You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state
law or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
      “If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio
driving privileges will be suspended immediately and you will have to pay a fee
to have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI, OVUAC
or operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or
municipal law within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state
OVI, and, if you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased
penalties if you subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
      “(Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any
chemical test required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine as set by
law, your Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately and you will
have to pay a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
      “If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test
taken at your own expense.”
   (D)    If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)    If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of §
73.05, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath
or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer shall do all
of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.    Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting to
or refusing to take, the test or tests and gave the person the form described
in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of §
73.05, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, who
is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or any other municipal OVI ordinance
or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.05 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
Statutory reference:
      Continuous alcohol monitoring, see R.C. § 4511.198
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges and indigent drivers alcohol
treatment funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.03 DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01 or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive the vehicle.
No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s ability
or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of the vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a driver
in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive the
vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79 or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764 or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79)
§ 73.04 PHYSICAL CONTROL.
   (A)   No person who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse
or the combined influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse, shall be in actual
physical control of any vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(Ord. 87-42, passed 6-20-1987) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d) or (A)(1)(e).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma or urine that equals or exceeds the
amount specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194)
§ 73.06 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)    No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
§ 73.07 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI- TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low- speed vehicle or mini-truck upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles
per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle upon any
street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 25 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low- speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 25 or 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor- driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under- speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 25 miles per hour for under-
speed or utility vehicles and not greater than 35 miles per hour for low-speed
vehicles or mini-trucks;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under- speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
   (G)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (G) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini- truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini- truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (G) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
   (H)   This section will take effect on January 1, 2017.
RECKLESS OPERATION
§ 73.15 RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.15
§ 73.16 RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of the property knowingly
permits the operation thereon.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.15
§ 73.17 OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor or unit of farm machinery.
(Ord. 94-27, passed 4-18-1994)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 73.30 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper,
having due regard for the traffic, surface and width of the street or highway
and any other conditions and no person shall drive any motor vehicle in and
upon any street or highway at a greater speed than will permit him or her to
bring it to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty mph in school zones during school recess and while
children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing hours and
when 20 mph school speed limit signs are erected, except that on controlled-
access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line fence has been
erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed by division (B)
(4) of this section and on freeways, if the right-of-way line fence has been
erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed by divisions
(B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone may be marked
by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section or in the
Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices shall
be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs equipped with
flashing or other lights or giving other special notice of the hours in which
the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Department of Education in compliance with O.A.C. § 3301-35-08, a copy
of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s pupils certifying that
the school meets state minimum standards for nonchartered, nontax-supported
schools and presents evidence of this filing to the jurisdiction from which it
is requesting the establishment of a school zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of the engineering, traffic
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five mph in all other portions of the municipality, except
on state routes outside business districts, through highways outside business
districts and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five mph on all state routes or through highways within the
municipality outside business districts, except as provided in divisions (B)(4)
and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty mph on state routes within the municipality outside urban
districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as further provided
in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen mph on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five mph on highways outside the municipality that are
within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of or a limit declared or
established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima facie
lawful at the time and place of the alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the court
finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)
(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of or a limit declared or established pursuant to, this
section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of conviction
under the division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of this section.
If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the evidence
supports a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on the signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon the signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine
passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS includes but is not limited to a school bus or a motor
vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with a
charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O)) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 mph and is indicated by a
sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be seen by an
ordinarily observant person and meets the specifications for the basic speed
limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation
pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E))
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b) and (K)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21 or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21 or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any provision of division (A) through (I) of this
section, R.C. § 4511.21 or any other municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any provision of that section and operated a motor vehicle faster
than 35 mph in a business district of the municipality, faster than 50 mph in
other portions of the municipality or faster than 35 mph in a school zone
during recess or while children are going to or leaving school during the
school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
      (2)   Division (J). 
         (a)   A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one of the
following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(a)2. and (K)
(2)(a)3. of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B) or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division
(J)(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B) or any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.211(F))
   (L)   (1)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality including Woodland Dr., except on state routes outside business
districts, through highways outside business districts, alleys, driveways,
parking lots, public parks, cemeteries and school properties;
      (2)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys, driveways, parking lots,
cemeteries and Ruihley Park within the municipality, excepting thereof all
driveways, alleys and parking lots on all school property within the
municipality; and
      (3)   Twenty miles per hour on driveways, alleys and parking lots on all
school properties within the municipality.
(Ord. 04-54, passed 11-15-2004; Am. Ord. 10-74, passed 12-6-2010)
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits, see
Chapter 77, Schedule II
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
through (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.31 SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 mph, greater than 50 mph, nor effective until the provisions of
R.C. § 4511.21 or §
73.30, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local authorities
have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 73.32 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or §
73.30 do not apply to emergency vehicles or public safety vehicles when they
are responding to emergency calls and are equipped with and displaying at least
one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle and when the
drivers thereof sound audible signals by bell, siren or exhaust whistle. This
section does not relieve the driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 73.33 STREET RACING DEFINED; PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other or the operation of one or more vehicles over
a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein timing
is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive accelerations or
speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to the competitive use of
vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The operation of two or
more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of prima facie lawful
speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through (B)(9) or §
73.30(B)(1) through (7) or rapidly accelerating from a common starting point to
a speed in excess of the prima facie lawful speeds shall be prima facie
evidence of street racing.
   (B)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street or highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit or
privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251)  (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 73.34 UNUSUAL NOISE PROHIBITED; PEELING.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation or in compliance with law, in such manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stop position that the exhaust system
emits a loud cracking or chattering noise unusual to its normal operation or
the tires of the vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly
called “peeling”.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.35 SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to the bridge or
structure, when the structure is posted with signs as provided in this section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of any
bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway and if it
finds that the structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at the
speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which the structure can
withstand and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating the maximum speed to
be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end of
the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of the signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the maximum
speed which can be maintained with safety to the bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third  degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.23)
RESISTING OFFICER
§ 73.45 PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct or abuse any sheriff,
constable or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this title.
      (2)   No person shall interfere with any person charged under any
provision of this title with the enforcement of the law relative to public
highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 73.46 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display or orally communicate a
false name, social security number or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.60 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 73.61 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 73.62 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property or personal property attached to real property, legally
upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and take
reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address and of the registration
number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if available,
shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an
accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the
offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after committing
the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 73.63 FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4509.74)
CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION, KEYS, LICENSES AND IDENTIFICATION
§ 73.75 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The operator of a COMMERCIAL CAR, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, when
the commercial car is required to be registered under state law, shall, when
operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the streets, roads or
highways of this municipality display inside or on the vehicle the certificate
of registration for the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer provided for in
R.C. § 4503.19 or shall carry the certificate on his or her person and display
the certificate upon the demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a commercial car
certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18)
§ 73.76 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 73.77 USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Is fictitious;
      (2)   Is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   Belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section does
not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and highways
in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates that
originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by the
same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
(R.C. § 4549.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
bearing an invalid license plate or identification mark, a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree on each
subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.78 OPERATING WITHOUT MANUFACTURER OR DEALER LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)    No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal operation of a
manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor on a first
offense and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.79 OPERATING WITH NUMBER OF FORMER OWNER.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the same, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operation of a motor
vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark issued to another, a
minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on
each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.80 RESIDENT OPERATING WITH NUMBER ISSUED BY FOREIGN STATE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal operation by a
resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the distinctive number or
identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent
offense.
(R.C. § 4549.12) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicles, prohibition against operation
   
74.02   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.03   Lighted lights required
   
74.04   Headlights
   
74.05   Tail lights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.06   Red reflectors required
   
74.07   Safety lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.08   Stoplight regulations
   
74.09   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.10   Red light or flag required
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Lights and emblem on slow-moving vehicles; lights and reflectors on
multi-wheel agricultural tractors or farm machinery
   
74.13   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.14   Cowl, fender and back-up lights
   
74.15   Two lights displayed
   
74.16   Headlights required
   
74.17   Lights of less intensity
   
74.18   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.19   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.20   Horns, sirens and warning devices
   
74.21   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.22   Rearview mirrors
   
74.23   Windshields and wipers
   
74.24   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.25   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.26   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.27   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.28   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.29   Brake fluid
   
74.30   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.31   Solid tire requirements
   
74.32   Directional signals
   
74.33   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required; definition
   
74.34   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.35   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.36   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.37   Studded tires; seasonal use permitted
   
74.38   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.39   Air bags
Loads
   
74.50   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.51   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicles
   
74.52   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.53   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.54   Weighing of vehicle; removal of excess load
   
74.55   Operation of vehicle exceeding weight limits prohibited
   
74.56   Load limits
   
74.57   Maximum width, height and length
   
74.58   Statement of gross vehicle weight
   
74.59   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.60   Liability for damages; prosecution; application of monies
   
74.61   Permits for heavy vehicles or equipment
   
74.62   Operation of vehicles exceeding 10,000 pounds
   
74.63   Obligation of driver to use state or federal route
   
74.64   Weight exceptions for certain vehicles
   
Appendix A: Maximum height of bumpers
   
Appendix B: Transparent, nontransparent, translucent and reflectorized
materials on windows of vehicles
Statutory reference:
   Exemption of certain vehicles from emission, noise control and fuel
standards, see R.C. § 4513.41
   Exemption of collector's or historical vehicles from equipment standards,
see R.C. § 4513.38
   Motorcycles, protective eye devices required for operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Snowmobiles and all-purpose vehicles, equipment, see O.A.C. § 4501-29-01
   Vehicle lighting, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-15
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01 UNSAFE VEHICLES, PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H))
§ 74.02 BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight
rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER. The same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. A motor vehicle with motive power, except
a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed either
on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road operation.
      PASSENGER CAR. Any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for carrying
ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or motorcycle.
      TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed
and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of 10,000
pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs:
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43, attached as
Appendix A to this chapter
§ 74.03 LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by sections 4513.04 to 4513.37 of the Revised Code during
all of the following times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §4513.03)
§ 74.04 HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.05 TAIL LIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
the registration plate is required and render it legible from a distance of 50
feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating the registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.06 RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941 and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or §
74.07 shall be equipped with reflectors as required by the regulations provided
for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of the size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.07 SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by the regulations and the equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or §
74.03, except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted
on any the vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16 or §§
74.03 through
74.17.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.08 STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. The stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
§ 74.09 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.10 RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or §
74.03, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required by this section
is in addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle. At any other
time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of the load a red flag or
cloth not less than 16 inches square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.11 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or §
74.03, the vehicle shall be equipped with one or more lights which shall
exhibit a white or amber light on the roadway side visible from a distance of
500 feet to the front of the vehicle and a red light visible from a distance of
500 feet to the rear.
      (2)   No lights need be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is
stopped or parked within the municipality where there is sufficient light to
reveal any person or substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon the
highway.
      (3)   Any lighted headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.12 LIGHTS AND EMBLEM ON SLOW- MOVING VEHICLES; LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS ON
MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS OR FARM MACHINERY.
   (A)   All vehicles other than bicycles, including animal-drawn vehicles and
vehicles referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G), not specifically required to be
equipped with lamps or other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.10 or §§
74.03 through
74.11, shall, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or §
74.03, be equipped with at least one lamp displaying a white light visible from
a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle and also
shall be equipped with two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance
of not less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle or as an alternative,
one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000
feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all distances of 600 feet
to 100 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of
headlamps. Lamps and reflectors required by this section shall meet standards
adopted by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   All boat trailers, farm machinery and other machinery, including all
road construction machinery, upon a street or highway, except when being used
in actual construction and maintenance work in an area guarded by a flagperson
or where flares are used or when operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Director of Transportation, a city or
village engineer or the county engineer of the several counties, when the
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Director and
the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09, which is designed for operation at a speed of
25 mph or less, shall be operated at a speed not exceeding 25 mph and shall
display a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem (SMV). The emblem shall be
mounted so as to be visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the
rear. The Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications
for the design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for SMV emblems referred to in this section shall correlate with
and, so far as possible, conform with those approved by the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers. A unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 mph may be operated on a
street or highway at a speed greater than 25 mph provided it is operated in
accordance with this section. As used in this division, MACHINERY does not
include any vehicle designed to be drawn by an animal.
   (C)   The use of the SMV emblem shall be restricted to animal-drawn vehicles
and to the slow- moving vehicles specified in division (B) of this section
operating or traveling within the limits of the highway. Its use on slow-moving
vehicles being transported upon other types of vehicles or on any other type of
vehicle or stationary object on the highway is prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate any boat trailer,
farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-moving vehicle in division
(B) of this section, except those units designed to be completely mounted on a
primary power unit, which is manufactured or assembled on or after April 1,
1966, unless the vehicle is equipped with a slow-moving vehicle emblem mounting
device as specified in division (B) of this section.
      (2)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate on a street or highway
any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to operate at a
speed greater than 25 mph unless the unit displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem
as specified in division (B) of this section and a speed identification symbol
that meets the specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural
Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment: Speed
Identification Symbol (SIS).
   (E)   Any boat trailer, farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-
moving vehicle in division (B) of this section, in addition to the use of the
slow-moving vehicle emblem and any unit of farm machinery that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 mph, in addition to the
display of a speed identification symbol, may be equipped with a red flashing
light that shall be visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the
rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or § 
74.03. When a double-faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the
front and red light to the rear. In addition to the lights described in this
division, farm machinery and motor vehicles escorting farm machinery may
display a flashing, oscillating or rotating amber light, as permitted by R.C. §
4513.17 or §
74.18 and also may display simultaneously flashing turn signals or warning
lights, as permitted by that section.
   (F)   (1)   Every animal-drawn vehicle upon a street or highway shall at all
times be equipped in one of the following ways:
         (a)   With a slow-moving vehicle emblem complying with division (B) of
this section;
         (b)   With alternate reflective material complying with rules adopted
under division (F)(2) below;
         (c)   With both a slow-moving vehicle emblem and alternate reflective
material as specified in division (F)(2) below.
      (2)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C.
Chapter 119, establishing standards and specifications for the position of
mounting of the alternate reflective material authorized by this division,
permit, as a minimum, the alternate reflective material to be black, gray or
silver in color. The alternate reflective material shall be mounted on the
animal-drawn vehicle so as to be visible, at all times specified in R.C. §
4513.03 or §
74.03, from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated
by the lawful lower beams of headlamps.
   (G)   (1)   Every unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 mph shall display a slow-
moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that meets the
specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification
Symbol (SIS) when the unit is operated upon a street or highway, irrespective
of the speed at which the unit is operated on the street or highway. The speed
identification symbol shall indicate the maximum speed in mph at which the unit
of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate. The display of
the speed identification symbol shall be in accordance with the standard
prescribed in this division.
      (2)   If an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 mph is being operated on a street or highway
at a speed greater than 25 mph and is towing, pulling or otherwise drawing a
unit of farm machinery, the unit of farm machinery shall display a slow-moving
vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that is the same as the speed
identification symbol that is displayed on the agricultural tractor.
   (H)   When an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 mph is being operated on a street or highway
at a speed greater than 25 mph, the operator shall possess some documentation
published or provided by the manufacturer indicating the maximum speed in mph
at which the manufacturer designed the agricultural tractor to operate.
   (I)   As used in this section, BOAT TRAILER means any vehicle designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina or
in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 mph or less.
(R.C. § 4513.11) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (J)   Lights and reflector requirements for multi- wheel agricultural
tractors or farm machinery.
      (1)   (a)   Every multi-wheel agricultural tractor whose model year was
2001 or earlier, when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, at a minimum shall be equipped with and display reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the
front and the rear; by amber reflectors, all visible to the front; and by red
reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   The lamps displaying amber light need not flash simultaneously
and need not flash in conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
         (c)   The lamps and reflectors required by division (J)(1)(a) of this
section and their placement shall meet standards and specifications contained
in rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119. The rules governing the amber lamps, amber reflectors and red
reflectors and their placement shall correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1 and 4.1.7.2, respectively, of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (2)   Every unit of farm machinery whose model year was 2002 or later,
when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be
equipped with and display markings and illuminated lamps that meet or exceed
the lighting, illumination and marking standards and specifications that are
applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit’s model year specified
in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.11
APR01, Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways or any
subsequent revisions of that standard.
      (3)   The lights and reflectors required by division (J)(1) of this
section are in addition to the slow-moving vehicle emblem and lights required
or permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or 4513.17 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, to be displayed on farm machinery being operated or
traveling on a street or highway.
      (4)   No person shall operate any unit of farm machinery on a street or
highway or cause any unit of farm machinery to travel on a street or highway in
violation of divisions (J)(1) or (J)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.11(I), 4513.111(E))
§ 74.13 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.14 COWL, FENDER AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.15 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or §
74.03, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near each side of
the front of every motor vehicle, except when the vehicle is parked subject to
the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.16 HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or §
74.03, the driver shall use a distribution of light or composite beam, directed
high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and
substantial objects at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to
the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
the driver shall use a distribution of light or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.17 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or §
74.03 when it is equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof
capable of revealing persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of
lights required in R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance; provided that, the vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in
excess of 20 mph.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.18 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)    Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn or in the presence of vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching or overtaking or passing.
This prohibition does not apply to emergency vehicles, road service vehicles
servicing or towing a disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles
actively collecting garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the
roadside, rural mail delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182
or §
74.21, highway maintenance vehicles, funeral hearses, funeral escort vehicles
and similar equipment operated by the Department or local authorities, which
shall be equipped with and display, when used on a street or highway for the
special purpose necessitating the lights, a flashing, oscillating or rotating
amber light, but shall not display a flashing, oscillating or rotating light of
any other color, nor to vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or §
74.12 to have a flashing red light.
      (2)   When used on a street or highway, farm machinery and vehicles
escorting farm machinery may be equipped with and display a flashing,
oscillating or rotating amber light and the prohibition contained in division
(C)(1) of this section does not apply to the machinery or vehicles. Farm
machinery may also display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.11 or §
74.12.
   (D)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E) or a school bus, no person shall operate, move or park upon or
permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public street or highway any
vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying a flashing red or a
flashing combination red and white light or an oscillating or rotating red
light or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating light; and except
a public law enforcement officer or other person sworn to enforce the criminal
and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety vehicle when on duty,
no person shall operate, move or park upon or permit to stand within the right-
of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with
or upon which is mounted and displaying a flashing blue or a flashing
combination blue and white light or an oscillating or rotating blue light or a
combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B))
§ 74.19 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18 or §§
74.03 through
74.19, upon any motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are
equipped, mounted and adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with
regulations which are prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.20 HORNS, SIRENS AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. The equipment shall not be used except when the
vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the immediate
pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case the driver
of the emergency vehicle shall sound the equipment when it is necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.21 MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow into
or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of the vehicle or equipped in any way to
produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of the
vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an internal
combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.22 REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of the
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.23 WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side or rear windows of the vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It does not conceal the vehicle identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It is mounted not more than six inches below the upper edge of
the windshield and is outside the area swept by the vehicle’s windshield
wipers.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield. The device shall
be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be controlled or
operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.24 REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS OR
REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of glass so manufactured,
fabricated or treated as substantially to prevent shattering and flying of the
glass when it is struck or broken or such other or similar product as may be
approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale or sold
for use in or installed in any door, window, partition or windshield that is
required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1), (B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K))
Statutory reference:
   Administrative regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41, attached as
Appendix B to this chapter
§ 74.25 STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18)
§ 74.26 FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.27 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten or day-care center, while transporting preschool
children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is equipped
with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar attached to the
top of the vehicle and a sign bearing the designation “caution — children”,
which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing lights in such a
manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind the vehicle. The
lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Director
of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.28 BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking brakes
adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under all
conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice or loose material. The
parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 mph.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 mph.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.29 BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers or distributors of brake fluid selling the
fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake fluid
meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.30 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.105, as amended and
49 C.F.R. § 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.31 SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.32 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or mechanical signal device
capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn either to the right or to
the left and which shall be visible from both the front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self- illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261)
§ 74.33 INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a SEAT SAFETY BELT
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate any passenger car, as
defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
The anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of a construction, design
and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than 4,000 pounds for each
belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262)
Statutory reference:
   Child restraint systems, administrative regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter
4501-37
§ 74.34 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
the vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them;
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963 or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in the
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.35 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of the vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of the vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors are
displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk or
in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at any
time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of the
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway and connecting, entering or exiting ramps
within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares, red
reflectors or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of the vehicle
shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic occupied by
the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet
in advance of the vehicle and one at a distance of 40 paces or approximately
100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors and flags to be displayed
as required in this section shall conform with the applicable requirements of
R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28)
§ 74.36 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high or
there shall be displayed on the rear of the vehicle a red flag not less than 24
inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches high or
shall be marked or placarded in accordance with § 177.823 of the United States
Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use and placed at convenient
points on the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.37 STUDDED TIRES; SEASONAL USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where the chains are being used or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 74.38 SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BUS.
         (a)   BUS means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers
that meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver;
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   BUS does not include a church bus as defined in R.C. § 4503.07
or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   BUS also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service;
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01
(R.C. § 4513.50)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, on and after
July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being the
owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit the
operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety inspection
decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4513.52.
      (2)   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section
and R.C. § 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person’s place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during the operation.
(R.C. § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4513.51(D))
§ 74.39 AIR BAGS.
   (A)    As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
LOADS
§ 74.50 PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         (c)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09 or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a
special permit issued by the Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34
may move the vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the special permit
on any highway that is a part of the state highway system when the movement is
partly within and partly without the corporate limits of the municipality.
      (2)   No local authority shall require any other permit or license or
charge any license fee or other charge against the holder of a permit for the
movement of a vehicle or combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part
of the state highway system.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of
a permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality.
      (4)   Permits may be issued for any period of time not to exceed one
year, as the local authority in
its discretion determines advisable or for the duration of any public
construction project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
Cross-reference:
   Permits for and operation of heavy vehicles or equipment, see §§
74.61 -
74.63
Statutory reference:
   Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see O.A.C.
Chapter 5501:2-1
§ 74.51 LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-82)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.52 ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand or
other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction or water
or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining
the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (D)   In addition to any other requirements of load distribution, it shall
be unlawful to operate any vehicle upon a street, unless the vehicle is so
laden as to prevent its contents from shifting or otherwise unbalancing the
vehicle to such an extent as to interfere with the safe operation of the same.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.53 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed thereby
and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one vehicle
to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles transporting
poles, pipe, machinery or other objects of structural nature which cannot
readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon the connection a white
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 mph or less and vehicles designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina or
in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 mph or less, shall have
a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch mounted on the towing
vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials as provided in this section may be towed or
drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 74.54 WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
   (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. The terrain shall be
level or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed one-quarter
inch per foot of the distance between the axles.
   (F)   In all determinations of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (G)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until the portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this chapter.
(R.C. § 4513.33)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of weight limits, approval of Director required, see R.C. §
4513.33
§ 74.55 OPERATION OF VEHICLE EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   (A)    No person shall operate or move a traction engine, steam roller, or
other vehicle, load, object or structure, whether propelled by muscular or
motor power, over or upon the improved public streets, highways, bridges, or
culverts in this municipality, that weighs in excess of the weights prescribed
in this subchapter or R.C. §§ 5577.01 et seq., unless the person has been
issued a permit under R.C. § 4513.34, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. The prohibition in this section applies regardless of whether the
weight is moved upon wheels, rollers, or otherwise. Any weight determination
shall include the weight of the vehicle, object, structure, contrivance, and
load.
(R.C. § 5577.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, the person shall
be fined $100 and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, the
person shall be fined $130 and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload or imprisoned not more than 30 days or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, the person shall be fined $160 and in addition thereto
$3 per 100 pounds of overload or imprisoned not more than 30 days or both.
Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to gross
load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in this
division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the overload on
any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds and if the immediately preceding or
following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle combination, is
underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this division (B)
(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be considered as
one axle.
(R.C. § 5577.99(A))
§ 74.56 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels;
         (b)   When the tires on the vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
 
Tire Width  Load Limit
(in inches) (in pounds)
3-1/2       450
6 and over  650
 
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two-thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires or each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds;
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) of this section, the
maximum gross weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined
by application of the following formula:
            W = 500[(LN/–1) + 12N + 36]
         (b)   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group
of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L equals the
distance in rounded whole feet between the extreme of any group of two or more
consecutive axles and N equals the number of axles in the group under
consideration. However, two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross
load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, the weight
of vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds.
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds;
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
         (c)   On any three successive load- bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between the axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three- axle
group is no more than nine feet and with the load- bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   Forty-eight thousand pounds, with the total weight of the
vehicle and load not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for
each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle;
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. of this section,
42,500 pounds, if part of a six-axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet
of spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of
the vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds
per each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) of this section, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900
pounds for each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of
the vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, the
maximum overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road
surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12-1/2 feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, TANDEM AXLE means two
or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel
transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96
inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section applies to the
weight of a vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a
part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, only the division that yields the
highest total gross vehicle weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle.
Once that division has been determined, only the limits contained in the
subdivisions of that division shall apply to that vehicle.
(R.C. § 5577.04)
   (C)   Axle and wheel load, gross weights and towing connection length for
solid rubber tires.
      (1)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when the vehicle is equipped with solid rubber tires
shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets, bridges
or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of the vehicle shall not
exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by division
(A) of this section, nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other resilient
material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch thick when
measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
      (2)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective
vehicles to a distance not in excess of 12-1/2 feet. If the provisions of this
division (C) are held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set
forth in the “Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958”, 72 Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. § 127,
this division (C) shall become null and void to the extent of the
inconsistency.
(R.C. § 5577.041)
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be
punished as set forth in §
74.55(B).
   (E)   Modification of load limits. The load limits established in this
section may be modified or waived upon special permission granted as provided
in R.C. § 4513.34 or §
74.50.
§ 74.57 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width in excess of:
      (1)   One hundred four inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality.
      (2)   One hundred two inches, excluding the safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways and
such other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those
roads or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited
by order of the Director of Transportation.
      (3)   One hundred thirty-two inches for traction engines.
      (4)   One hundred two inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   One hundred two inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on the
state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length in excess of:
      (1)   Sixty-six feet for passenger bus type vehicles and articulated
passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit authority pursuant
to R.C. §§ 306.30 through 306.54.
      (2)   Forty-five feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   Fifty-three feet for any semitrailer when operated in a commercial
tractor- semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that the
Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-semitrailer
combination on the state highways or portions of state highways as the Director
designates.
      (4)   Twenty-eight and one half feet for any semitrailer or trailer when
operated in a commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the
operation of any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial
tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination on the state highways or portions
of state highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   (a)   Ninety-seven feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddle-mount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount;
         (b)   Seventy-five feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddle-mount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an interstate,
United States route or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles,
but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   Sixty-five feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (C)
(4) and in division (E) below.
      (7)   Forty-five feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   Fifty feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of the vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of the vehicles and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway thereof that the
Director designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of the bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor- semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by the department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing the movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same right
of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of the vehicle or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
§ 74.58 STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, with intent
to defraud by misrepresentation thereon the weight of the goods of property to
be so transported.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer may
obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association,
including the owner, lessee or operator of the commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this state, a written
“statement of gross vehicle weight” showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
shall retain the statement of gross vehicle weight on his or her person and any
law enforcement officer may request that the driver or operator exhibit it to
him or her. If, upon examining the statement of gross vehicle weight, the law
enforcement officer has reason to believe that the information contained
therein is correct in every respect, he or she shall indorse it with his or her
name and the date and place where it was exhibited to him or her. The law
enforcement officer may then permit the driver or operator to proceed without
weighing by a law enforcement officer. No person shall willfully issue a
written statement of gross vehicle weight and knowingly give any false
information in the statement.
(R.C. § 5577.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not more
than $5,000 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than six months or
both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(D))
§ 74.59 WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges and culverts within the
municipality, unless the vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of the vehicle or combination
of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from throwing dirt,
water or other materials on the windshields of following vehicles. The
protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more than one-third of
the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the center of the flaps
under any conditions of loading of the vehicle and they shall be at least as
wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is so designed and
constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of fenders, body
construction or other means of enclosure, then no such protectors or flaps are
required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by fenders, bodies or other parts
of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by protective means extending at
least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)  (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
§ 74.60 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; PROSECUTION; APPLICATION OF MONIES.
   Any person violating any law relating to or regulating the use of the
improved public roads shall be liable for all damage resulting to any such
street, highway, bridge or culvert by reason of the violation. In case of any
injury to the street, highway, bridge or culvert, the damages shall be
collected by civil action for recovery of the damages brought by the proper
authorities of the municipality. All damages collected under this section shall
be paid into the treasury of the municipality and credited to any fund for the
repairs of streets, highways, roads, bridges or culverts.
(R.C. § 5577.12)
§ 74.61 PERMITS FOR HEAVY VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department may, upon application in writing and for good
cause shown, as authorized by §§
74.50 and
74.55(A), issue special permits authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
vehicle or other heavy equipment, exceeding the weight limits specified in §
74.62.
   (B)   Such permits may be issued for a single or round trip or in special
instances for a certain period of time.
   (C)   The Police Department, with the advice and approval of the Engineer,
may specify in the permits the conditions, times and routes under which the
permittee is allowed to operate or move the vehicles or equipment.
   (D)   The Police Department may require a prior deposit of money or surety
bond with the municipality to insure payment of all expenses incident to the
supervision and safeguarding of the movement of vehicles or equipment and to
insure the payment of all damages resulting to public or private property by
reason of the moving of vehicles or equipment.
   (E)   The Police Department may call upon the Engineer to determine the
extent of possible damages and to determine the amount of the deposit or bond
to insure the payment of possible damages.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 74.62 OPERATION OF VEHICLES EXCEEDING 10,000 POUNDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any vehicle
designed to be used for the conveyance, transfer or delivery of freight,
merchandise or other substances and materials usually hauled in the vehicles,
exceeding a gross weight of 10,000 pounds, including the weight of the vehicle,
whether loaded or unloaded, upon any street or other public place in the
municipality except on designated and marked Ohio State and Federal Route,
whether temporary or permanent. Further, when the loaded contents of the
vehicle exceeding such weight are for delivery to or the vehicle is called to
remove merchandise or other material from any business house or other place not
located on the state or federal routes, then the vehicles may be driven and
operated on the streets and other public places not designated or marked as
state or federal routes; but, only between the place of delivery or removal of
freight and merchandise and the nearest intersecting Ohio state or federal
route.
   (B)   The operators of the vehicles shall be required, upon request of any
member of the Police Department or other person authorized by the municipality
to give full and true information as to the route they are following and the
names of the consignor and consignee and place of delivery or removal; and the
location of any consignment being hauled or goods being removed.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Exception for special permit authorized, see §
74.55(A)
§ 74.63 OBLIGATION OF DRIVER TO USE STATE OR FEDERAL ROUTE.
   It shall be the duty of the drivers of all such vehicles exceeding such
weights entering the municipality upon a street other than a state or federal
route to proceed immediately, by the shortest way possible, to the nearest
state or federal route leading in the direction in which the vehicle is
proceeding.
(Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.64 WEIGHT EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COAL TRUCK. A truck transporting coal from the site where it is mined
when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      FARM COMMODITIES. Includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans, tobacco
and wheat.
      FARM MACHINERY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      FARM TRUCK. A truck used in the transportation from a farm of farm
commodities when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      LOG TRUCK. A truck used in the transportation of timber from the site of
its cutting when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3743.01.
      SOLID WASTE HAUL VEHICLE. A vehicle hauling solid waste for which a bill
of lading has not been issued.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the
described conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance,
and no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially similar
municipal ordinance, shall be imposed:
         (a)   A coal truck transporting coal, from the place of production to
the first point of delivery where title to the coal is transferred;
         (b)   A farm truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities,
from the place of production to the first point of delivery where the
commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is transferred;
         (c)   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred;
         (d)   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place
of production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed
of or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of
this section and operated under the conditions described in that division does
not exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
does not exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than
7.5%, no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (C)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceeds the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to
the allowance provided by this division (B) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to the operation of
a farm truck, log truck, or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during
the months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (B) of this
section does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the
following:
         (a)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
         (b)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.042)
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the described
conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         (a)   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         (b)   The place where title to the minerals is transferred;
         (c)   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged;
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged;
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod, or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery;
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass, or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to first point where the product is transferred.
   (F)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this
section and operated under the conditions described in that division do not
exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01
to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and do not
exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%, no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (G)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceed the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(E) or (F) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to the
allowance provided by division (E) or (F) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (H)   Divisions (E) and (F) of this section do not apply to the operation of
a vehicle listed in division (E) of this section on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
      (2)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.043)
   (I)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a vehicle fueled solely by compressed natural
gas or liquid natural gas may exceed by not more than 2,000 pounds the gross
vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or the axle load limits of those sections.
   (J)   If a vehicle described in division (I) of this section exceeds the
weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, by more than the allowance provided for in
division (I) of this section, both of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (K)   Division (I) of this section does not apply to the operation of a
vehicle on a highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.044)
   (L)   Fire engine weight exemptions. 
      (1)   As used in this division (L), FIRE ENGINE means a fire engine, fire
truck, or other vehicle or apparatus belonging to or used by any municipal,
township, or volunteer fire department, while in the discharge of its
functions.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a person may do both of the following without a
written permit issued under R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
         (a)   Operate a two-axle fire engine, with a front axle maximum weight
of 24,000 pounds and a rear axle maximum weight of 33,500 pounds and a minimum
wheelbase of 15 feet, on all roadways in the state;
         (b)   Operate a fire engine with a maximum gross vehicle weight of
86,000 pounds on the interstate highway system and within one road mile of an
interstate highway system entrance or exit ramp.
      (3)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for any fire engine that requires a permit, the Ohio
Director of Transportation or local authority shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Issue the permit at no cost to the municipal, township, or
volunteer fire department;
         (b)   Issue a permit that expires five years after the date of
issuance.
(R.C. § 5577.045)
APPENDIX A: MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF BUMPERS
(O.A.C. 4501-43)
   
4501-43-01   Purpose
   
4501-43-02   Definitions
   
4501-43-03   General provisions
   
4501-43-04   Specifications
4501-43-01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to section 4513.021 of the Revised Code
which provides that the director of public safety shall adopt rules governing
the maximum height of bumpers on passenger cars, multipurpose passenger
vehicles, and some trucks and to prohibit certain other modifications of the
body, chassis, or suspension system of a motor vehicle.
Effective: 8/16/07
Promulgated Under: 119.03
Statutory Authority: R.C. 4513.021
Rule Amplifies: R.C. 4513.021
Prior Effective Dates: 1/16/89, 12/5/02
4501-43-02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter:
   (A)   “Passenger car” means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed
for carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
   (B)   “Multipurpose passenger vehicle” means a motor vehicle with motive
power, except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is
constructed either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional
off-road operation.
   (C)   “Truck” means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
ten thousand pounds or less.
   (D)   “Manufacturer” has the same meaning as in section 4501.01 of the
Revised Code.
   (E)   “Gross vehicle weight rating” means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for the vehicle.
   (F)   “Body floor height” means the vertical distance between top of the
frame rail and the bottom of the passenger compartment (cab) floor. In the
event that the vehicle is a truck body, floor height will be measured by the
vertical distance between the passenger compartment (cab) floor and the floor
of the truck bed.
   (G)   “Bumper height” means the vertical distance between the ground and the
highest point of the bottom of the bumper, measured when the vehicle is laden
on a level surface with the vehicle tires inflated to the manufacturer’s
recommended pressure.
   (H)   “Frame” means the main longitudinal structural members of the chassis
of the vehicle or, for vehicles with unitized body construction, the lowest
main longitudinal structural members of the body of the vehicle.
   (I)   “Wheel track distance” means the distance on the ground between the
center of the tire tread on one side of the vehicle, and the center of the tire
tread on the opposite side.
Effective: 8/16/07
Promulgated Under: 119.03
Statutory Authority: R.C. 4513.021
Rule Amplifies: R.C. 4513.021
Prior Effective Dates: 1/16/89, 9/5/03
4501-43-03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of section 4513.021 of the Revised Code or this
chapter.
   (B)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system including the installation of inverted,
altered or modified suspension system component parts which results in
elevation of the height of the vehicle bumper or frame unit which is not in
compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state without a
bumper on the front and rear of the vehicle if such vehicle was equipped with
bumpers as standard equipment by the manufacturer.
   (D)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state if the
difference in height between the body floor and the top of the frame exceeds
four inches.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit
either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle, or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs, as long as such equipment does not cause
the vehicle to be in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This chapter does not apply to any specially designed or modified
passenger car, multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a
street or highway in races and similar events.
   (G)   A specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle, or truck which does not conform to section 4513.021 of the Revised
Code or this chapter shall not be operated on a street or highway.
Effective: 8/16/07
Promulgated Under: 119.03
Statutory Authority: R.C. 4513.021
Rule Amplifies: R.C. 4513.021
Prior Effective Dates: 1/16/89
4501-43-04 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The horizontal bumper shall be at least 4.5 inches in vertical height,
centered on the vehicle’s centerline, and extend no less than the width of the
respective wheel track distances. Bumpers shall be horizontal load-bearing
bumpers and attached to the vehicle frame to effectively transfer impact when
engaged.
   (B)   Maximum bumper heights shall be determined by the type of vehicle at
time of manufacture. If other than a passenger vehicle, the maximum bumper
height shall be determined by the gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) at the
time of manufacture. The height shall be measured in terms of the vertical
distance between the ground and the bottom of the bumper. Maximum bumper
heights are as follows:
 
Bumper Height                  Front     Rear
Passenger vehicles             22 inches 22 inches
All other vehicles
4,500 lbs. and under GVWR      24 inches 26 inches
4,501 lbs. to 7,500 lbs. GVWR  27 inches 29 inches
7,501 lbs. to 10,000 lbs. GVWR 28 inches 31 inches
 
   (C)   If the body and/or truck bed height is altered, the difference in
height between the body floor and/or the truck bed floor to the top of the
frame rail shall not exceed four inches.
   (D)   For any vehicle with bumpers or attaching components which have been
modified or altered from the original manufacturer’s design in order to conform
with the maximum bumper requirements of this rule, the bumper height shall be
measured from a level surface to the bottom of the vehicle frame rail at the
most forward and rearward points of the frame rail.
 
Frame Rail Height if bumper modified or altered Front     Rear
Passenger vehicles                              22 inches 22 inches
All other vehicles
4,500 lbs. and under GVWR                       24 inches 26 inches
4,501 lbs. to 7,500 GVWR                        27 inches 29 inches
7,501 lbs. to 10,000 lbs. GVWR                  28 inches 31 inches
 
   (E)   The height restriction in this rule applies to the distance from the
ground to the bottom of the frame rail under any one or more of the following
conditions:
      (1)   A motor vehicle is not equipped with a front and rear bumper.
      (2)   The bumper height relative to the frame rails has been altered.
      (3)   A supplemental bumper has been installed or an addition to the
original or replacement has been made.
Effective: 8/16/2007
Promulgated Under: 119.03
Statutory Authority: R.C. 4513.021
Rule Amplifies: R.C. 4513.021
Prior Effective Dates: 1/16/89
APPENDIX B: TRANSPARENT, NONTRANSPARENT, TRANSLUCENT AND REFLECTORIZED
MATERIALS ON WINDOWS OF VEHICLES
(O.A.C. 4501-41)
   
4501-41-01   Purpose
   
4501-41-02   Definitions
   
4501-41-03   Specifications
   
4501-41-04   Manufacturer's certification
   
4501-41-05   Exemptions
4501-41-01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to section 4513.241 of the Revised Code
which provides that the director of public safety shall adopt rules governing
the use of transparent, nontransparent, translucent, and reflectorized
materials in or on motor vehicle windshields, side windows, sidewings, and rear
windows that prevent a person of normal vision looking into the motor vehicle
from seeing or identifying persons or objects inside the motor vehicle.
Effective: 4/8/04
Rule Promulgated Under: RC 119.03
Rule Authorized By: RC 4513.241
Rule Amplifies: RC 4513.241
Prior Effective Dates: 11/17/88
4501-41-02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   “Motor vehicle” means every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other
than muscular power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires,
except motorized bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels, power
cranes, and other equipment used in construction work and not designed for or
employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery, well-
drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, trailers used to
transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials between a
local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or towed on a public
road or highway at a speed of twenty-five miles per hour or less, threshing
machinery, hay-baling machinery, and agricultural tractors and machinery used
in the production of horticultural, floricultural, agricultural, and vegetable
products.
   (B)   “Sunscreening material” means products or materials, including film,
glazing, and perforated sunscreening, which, when applied to the windshield or
windows of a motor vehicle, reduce the effects of the sun with respect to light
reflectance or transmittance.
   (C)   “Transmittance” means the ratio of the amount of total light,
expressed in percentages, which is allowed to pass through the product or
material, including glazing, to the amount of total light falling on the
product or material and the glazing.
   (D)   “Windshield” means the front exterior viewing device of a motor
vehicle.
   (E)   “Window” means any device designed for exterior viewing from a motor
vehicle, except the windshield or any roof-mounted viewing device.
   (F)   “Manufacturer,” unless otherwise specified in this chapter, means any
person who engages in the manufacturing or assembling of sunscreening products
or materials or any person who fabricates, laminates, or tempers a safety
glazing material, incorporating, during the manufacturing process, the capacity
to reflect or reduce the transmission of light.
   (G)   “Chauffered limousine” means a motor vehicle that is designed to carry
nine or fewer passengers and is operated for hire on an hourly basis pursuant
to a prearranged contract for the transportation of passengers on public roads
and highways along a route under the control of the person hiring the vehicle
and not over a defined and regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an
agreement, made in advance of boarding, to provide transportation from a
specific location in a chauffeured limousine at a fixed rate per hour or trip.
“Chauffered limousine” does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in
the business of funeral directing.
Effective: 4/8/04
Rule Promulgated Under: RC 119.03
Rule Authorized By: RC 4513.241
Rule Amplifies: RC 4513.241
Prior Effective Dates: 11/17/88
4501-41-03 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is required to be registered in this state with any
sunscreening material, or other product or material which has the effect of
making the windshield or windows nontransparent or would alter the windows’
color, increase its reflectivity, or reduce its light transmittance, unless the
product or material satisfies one of the following exceptions:
      (1)   Any manufacturer’s tinting or glazing of motor vehicle windows or
windshields that is otherwise in compliance with or permitted by “Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205” (FMVSS 205) in effect at the time of the
manufacture of the motor vehicle until such standard is subsequently repealed
or reduced. In “Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205,” (FMVSS 205)
“manufacturer” means any person engaged in the manufacturing or assembling of
motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment, including any person importing motor
vehicles or motor vehicle equipment for resale. “Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard Number 205” (FMVSS), Code of Federal Regulations, Title 49, Part 571,
can be obtained online at web site www.access.gpo.gov/nara.
      (2)   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied to
the windshield when used in conjunction with the safety glazing materials of
such window, has a light transmittance of not less than seventy per cent plus
or minus three per cent and is not red or yellow in color.
      (3)   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied to
the side windows to the immediate right or left the driver, so long as such
material, when used in conjunction with the safety glazing materials of such
windows, has a light transmittance of not less than fifty per cent plus or
minus three per cent and is not red or yellow in color.
      (4)   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied to a
window not otherwise listed in paragraphs (A)(1) through (A)(3) or (A)(5) of
this rule, except that outside left and right rear view mirrors are required if
the sunscreening material is applied to the rear window and the sunscreening
material, when used in conjunction with the safety glazing material of such
window, has a light transmittance of less than fifty per cent plus or minus
three per cent.
      (5)   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied
along the top of the windshield and that does not extend downward beyond the
AS-1 line or five inches from the top of the windshield, whichever is closer to
the top, is not regulated by this rule or this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall install in any motor vehicle any glass or other
material that fails to conform to the specifications of this chapter.
   (C)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as defined
in section 4517.01 of the Revised Code, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails
to conform to the specifications of this chapter.
   (D)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings or rear window.
   (E)   No person shall operate on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is required to be registered in this state that is equipped
with privacy drapes, louvers, curtains or blinds unless the drapes, louvers,
curtains or blinds are open and secure during vehicle operation.
   (F)   All motor vehicles, beginning with the 1990 model year, must be
equipped with labels identifying sunscreening material. All sunscreening
material must indicate the manufacturer’s name and the percentage level of
light transmission of the material permanently installed between the material
and the surface to which the material is applied or affixed. Such label must be
legible and must be placed in the lower left-hand corner of the vehicle window
when viewed from the outside.
Effective: 4/8/04
Rule Promulgated Under: RC 119.03
Rule Authorized By: RC 4513.241
Rule Amplifies: RC 4513.241
Prior Effective Dates: 11/17/88
4501-41-04 MANUFACTURER'S CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Each manufacturer shall certify to the department of public safety
that the public material the manufacturer makes or assembles complies with the
luminous reflectance and light transmission specifications of this chapter when
the material is used in conjunction with the safety glazing materials of motor
vehicle windshields and/or windows. A sunscreening device certified under this
rule is subject to testing by the department to determine compliance.
   (B)   Each manufacturer, as defined in paragraph (F) of rule
4501-41-02 of the Administrative Code shall notify any purchasers of
sunscreening material from them that “after market” application of sunscreening
material to the windows in a vehicle determined to be requisite for driving
visibility by the national highway traffic safety administration which reduces
the light transmittance of the glazing to a level below seventy per cent or
otherwise reduces the compliance of the glazing with “Federal Motor Vehicle
Safety Standard Number 205” (FMVSS 205), in effect at the time of the
manufacture of the motor vehicle as provided in Rule
4501-41-03 of the Administrative Code, may violate section 108(a)(2)(A) of the
National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 as amended and subject an
installer of the material, who is not the owner of the vehicle, to federal
civil penalties.”Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205” (FMVSS 205),
Code of Federal Regulations, Title 49, Part 571, can be obtained online at web
site www.access.gpo.gov/nara.
   (C)   As required in rule
4501-41-03 of the Administrative Code, each manufacturer shall provide a label
no larger than one and one-half inches by one and one-half inches with a means
for permanent and legible installation between the material and each glazing
surface to which it is applied that contains the following information:
      (1)   Manufacturer’s name;
      (2)   Percentage level of light transmission of the sunscreening material
when used in conjunction with motor vehicle manufacturer’s glazing materials.
Effective: 4/8/04
Rule Promulgated Under: RC 119.03
Rule Authorized By: RC 4513.241
Rule Amplifies: RC 4513.241
Prior Effective Dates: 11/17/88
4501-41-05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to a motor vehicle
registered in this state in the name of a person, or the person’s parent, legal
guardian, or spouse who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to
practice in this state under Chapter 4731. of the Revised Code, or an affidavit
signed by an optometrist licensed to practice in this state under Chapter 4725.
of the Revised Code, that states that the person has a physical condition that
makes it necessary to equip such motor vehicle with sunscreening material which
would be of a light transmittance and/or luminous reflectance in violation of
this chapter. Such affidavit shall be in the possession of the person so
afflicted, or the driver, at all times while in the motor vehicle.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the windows to the rear
of the driver in chauffeured limousines as defined in rule 4501-41-02 of the
Administrative Code.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the windows to the rear
of the driver in those vehicles designed and used to transport corpses which
include hearses and other vehicles adapted for such use.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the manufacturer’s
tinting or glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in
compliance with or permitted by “Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
205” (FMVSS 205) in effect at the time of the manufacture of the motor vehicle
as provided in rule 4501-41-03 of the Administrative Code.”Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205” (FMVSS 205), Code of Federal Regulations,
Title 49, Part 571, can be obtained online at web site www.access.gpo.gov/nara.
Effective: 4/8/04
Rule Promulgated Under: RC 119.03
Rule Authorized By: RC 4513.241
Rule Amplifies: RC 4513.241
Prior Effective Dates: 11/17/88
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Application of Title VII
   
75.02   Effect of chapter
   
75.03   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.04   Electric bicycles
   
75.05   Impounding of bicycles
Licensing Provisions
   
75.15   Bicycle license required
   
75.16   Application and fee; inspection
   
75.17   Issuance of license; display
   
75.18   Transfer of bicycle
Operating Regulations
   
75.30   Duty to operate with due care
   
75.31   Duty to observe traffic regulations; business district restrictions
   
75.32   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles
   
75.33   Parking
   
75.34   Trick riding prohibited
   
75.35   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.36   Riding bicycles, motorcycles abreast
Equipment on Bicycles
   
75.45   Equipment required
   
75.46   Tampering with identification numbers
 
   
75.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Protective eye devices required for motorcycle operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)    The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles and
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders at the time of the violation,
the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code to the
contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor
vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a bicycling skills course
approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any penalty otherwise
prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
§ 75.02 EFFECT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit the child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   These regulations shall apply wherever a bicycle is operated on any
street, alley, highway, sidewalk or other public way in the village.
(Ord. 87-31, passed 7-6-1987) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.03 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)    Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D) or (E) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 75.04 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is not permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path within the Village of Archbold.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path within the Village
of Archbold.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use within the Village of Archbold.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers. No person
under 16 years of age shall operate a class 1 or 2 electric bicycle within the
village unless they possess a valid motorized bicycle license issued by the
State of Ohio or other jurisdiction. No class of electric bicycle may be
operated by any person under the age of 14. No person operating a class 1 or 2
electric bicycle shall carry another person upon the electric bicycle. Any
operator of any type of electric bicycle when practicable shall operate within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway, and at all times obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
(Ord. 2021-66, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 75.05 IMPOUNDING OF BICYCLES.
   Whenever any bicycles shall be operated by any person in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, the bicycle may be seized by any member of the
Police Department and impounded for a period of time not to exceed 60 days. In
the event that the bicycle so impounded is not claimed by the owner or operator
of the same or by the parent or guardian of the owner or operator within a time
period of 90 days after it was released from impoundment, it shall be sold by
the Chief of Police and the proceeds of the sale shall be deposited by the
Director of Finance into the General Fund.
(Ord. 87-31, passed 7-6-1987)
LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 75.15 BICYCLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on any street or public way in the
village or upon any part thereof unless the bicycle has been provided with
proper license certification as required hereunder. Any purchaser of a bicycle
shall have five days from the date of purchase to obtain a bicycle license.
(Ord. 87-31, passed 7-6-1987) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.16 APPLICATION AND FEE; INSPECTION.
   (A)   The application for a bicycle license shall be made to the Police
Department, upon a form provided by the Chief of Police and shall be
accompanied by a fee of $1 to become the property of the village at the time of
the issuance of the license. Any fees collected shall be delivered to the
office of the Director of Finance.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or members of the Police Department may inspect
bicycles presented for licensing and shall have the authority to refuse or
approve the application for a license for any bicycle found to be in an unsafe
mechanical condition.
(Ord. 87-31, passed 7-6-1987; Am. Ord. 95-23, passed 4-3-1995)
§ 75.17 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; DISPLAY.
   (A)   The Office of the Administrator shall have the authority to issue,
upon written application, approved by the Chief of Police, bicycle licenses.
These licenses shall be effective until surrendered as hereinafter provided.
Every license sticker shall have displayed upon it the registration number of
the bicycle to which issued and the name of the Village of Archbold. The Police
Department shall keep a record of the issuance of the licenses, to whom issued,
the number thereof and the serial number and make of the bicycle. The Office of
the Director of Finance shall keep a record of all fees collected for the
issuance of the licenses.
   (B)   Upon the issuance of a license, the license shall be affixed and
displayed on the bicycle in a position to be visible at all times.
(Ord. 87-31, passed 7-6-1987; Am. Ord. 95-23, passed 4-3-1995)
§ 75.18 TRANSFER OF BICYCLE.
   Upon the sale or transfer of ownership of a licensed bicycle, a new bicycle
license must be obtained.
(Ord. 87-31, passed 7-6-1987)
OPERATING REGULATIONS
§ 75.30 DUTY TO OPERATE WITH DUE CARE.
   (A)   No person shall ride or propel any non- motorized wheeled vehicle upon
a public street unless the person is capable of efficient control.
   (B)   Every person operating a non-motorized wheeled vehicle shall at all
times operate the non-motorized wheeled vehicle with due regard to his or her
own safety and the safety of other persons lawfully upon the streets, alleys,
sidewalks and other public ways and shall always yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians.
(Ord. 87-31, passed 7-6-1987; Am. Ord. 02-43, passed 8-5-2002) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.31 DUTY TO OBSERVE TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; BUSINESS DISTRICT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Every person operating a non-motorized wheeled vehicle shall comply
with all traffic signs and signals erected for vehicular and pedestrian traffic
and all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations. It is prohibited for any
person to ride a non-motorized wheeled vehicle upon the sidewalks in the
Business Districts in the village. It shall be permissible for any person to
walk a non-motorized wheeled vehicle on the sidewalk in the Business Districts.
It shall be permissible for any person to ride a non-motorized wheeled vehicle
upon all other sidewalks in the village, provided all persons operating a non-
motorized wheeled vehicle on the sidewalks shall ride in single file at a slow
rate of speed.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, Business Districts shall be defined as
being the following areas of the village:
      (1)   The area bounded on the south by the north line of the railroad
tracks; on the north by the south side of Williams Street; on the west by the
west line extended of the alley which runs between Defiance Street and Ditto
Street; on the east by a line which runs along the west line extended of the
alley from Williams Street to Holland Street, thence east along the north side
of the sidewalks which run along the south side of Holland Street to the east
side of the sidewalks which run along the west side of Vine Street, thence
south along the east side of the sidewalks which run along the west side of
Vine Street, extended, to the north line of the railroad track.
      (2)   The area bounded on the south by the north line of Monumental
Street; on the north by the south line of Lugbill Road; on the east by the west
line of South Defiance Street and on the west by the east line of the alley
running between Buehrer Road and South Defiance Street.
   (C)   Any person riding a non-motorized wheeled vehicle shall at all times
yield to pedestrians.
(Ord. 87-31, passed 7-6-1987; Am. Ord. 02-43, passed 8-5-2002) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.32 RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   As used in this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given that
term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.33 PARKING.
   Bicycles parked in an alley, on a sidewalk or other public ways must be in
such a position as not to interfere with the safety or movement of the
vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 87-31, passed 7-6-1987) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.34 TRICK RIDING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in trick riding or to operate
any bicycle upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks or public ways of the village,
without maintaining full control of the bicycle by keeping a hand upon the
handle grips thereof.
(Ord. 87-31, passed 7-6-1987) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.35 PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)    No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
(Ord. 87-31, passed 7-6-1987; Am. Ord. 02-43, passed 8-5-2002)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54) Penalty, see §
75.99
Cross-reference:
   Toy vehicles on streets, see §
72.018
§ 75.36 RIDING BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)    Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55)  Penalty, see §
70.99
EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES
§ 75.45 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)    Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or §
74.03 shall be equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle and electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
§ 75.46 TAMPERING WITH IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously remove,
destroy, mutilate or alter the serial number on the frame of a bicycle pursuant
to this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, destroy,
mutilate or alter any license sticker, seal or registration card during the
time in which the license, seal or registration card is operative. Providing,
however that nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the Police Department from
stamping numbers on the frames of bicycles on which no serial numbers can be
found or on which the numbers is illegible or insufficient for identification
purposes.
(Ord. 87-31, passed 7-6-1987) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is otherwise provided shall, upon conviction thereof,
be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100,
without prejudice to and in addition to the impoundment provided in §
75.04.
(Ord. 87-31, passed 7-6-1987)
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
75.04,
75.32,
75.35,
75.36 or
75.45 for which no other penalty has been provided, shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
70.99.
CHAPTER 76: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Citation on illegally parked vehicle
   
76.05   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
   
76.06   Parking prohibitions
   
76.07   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.08   Parking on private property
   
76.09   Parking on private property in violation of posted prohibition
   
76.10   Long-term parking prohibited
   
76.11   Manner of angle parking
   
76.12   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle on roadway
   
76.13   Parking in alleys and narrow streets
   
76.14   Parking commercial vehicles on residential streets prohibited
   
76.15   Truck loading zones
   
76.16   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.17   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
76.18   Waiver
Statutory reference:
   Noncriminal parking infractions, local option to create, see R.C. Chapter
4521
§ 76.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park or so leave the vehicle
off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a clear and
unobstructed portion of the highway opposite the standing vehicle shall be left
for the free passage of other vehicles and a clear view of the stopped vehicle
shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each direction upon the
highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66)
§ 76.02 CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)    The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle ;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
(Ord. 94-28, passed 4-18-1994)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.03 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   As used in this section PUBLIC PARKING LOT means the off-street areas
which are owned by the village and used for the parking of vehicles.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the officer may move the vehicle or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of the highway.
(Ord. 94-28, passed 4-18-1994)
   (C)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge or causeway or in any tunnel, where the vehicles constitutes an
obstruction to traffic, the officer may provide for the removal of the vehicle
to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
§ 76.04 CITATION ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any motor vehicle without driver is found parked, standing or
stopped in violation of this code or any ordinance, the officer finding the
vehicle shall take its registration number and may take any other information
displayed on the vehicle which may identify its user and shall conspicuously
affix to the vehicle a parking citation.
   (B)   The parking citation shall instruct the owner or operator of the motor
vehicle to deposit the parking citation and money at the Police Department or
in a receptacle provided by the Police Department within 72 hours.
(Ord. 94-28, passed 4-18-1994)
§ 76.05 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the stopping, standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was in violation of any the law
or regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint
was at the time of the violation the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   (B)   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure
as described in §
76.04 has been followed.
(Ord. 94-28, passed 4-18-1994)
§ 76.06 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)    On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic- control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
the standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway or thruway; and
      (17)   No person shall park within 15 feet of a mailbox in a residential
district that has residential mailboxes installed at roadside between the hours
of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday. (Ord. 2023-31, passed 7-
17-2023)
   (B)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor- driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low-speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68)
   (D)   Except as indicated by appropriate signs or markings (including
without limitation, lines on the pavement) in a public parking lot. As used in
this division, PUBLIC PARKING LOT means the off- street areas that are owned by
the village and are used for the parking of vehicles.
(Ord. 94-28, passed 4-18-1994; Am. Ord. 00-83, passed 12-4-2000; Am. Ord. 2020-
28, passed 6-15-2020)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.07 PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in the case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities may by ordinance permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities may by ordinance permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one- way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in division (C)(2) of
this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair or removal of
facilities near, on, over or under a street or highway, may stop, stand or park
where necessary in order to perform the work, provided a flagperson is on duty
or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the Director
of Transportation.
   (E)   Special parking locations and privileges for persons with disabilities
that limit or impair the ability to walk, also known as handicapped parking
spaces or disability parking spaces, shall be provided and designated by all
political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and instrumentalities
thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is provided, whether owned,
rented or leased and at all publicly owned parking garages. The locations shall
be designated through the posting of an elevated sign, whether permanently
affixed or movable, imprinted with the international symbol of access and shall
be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators and ramps. All elevated
signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C. § 3781.111(C) shall be
mounted on a fixed or movable post and the distance from the ground to the
bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five feet. If a new sign or
a replacement sign designating a special parking location is posted on or after
October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed upon the surface of that sign or
affixed next to the designating sign a notice that states the fine applicable
for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in the special designated parking
location if the motor vehicle is not legally entitled to be parked in that
location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle at
special parking locations provided under division (E) of this section or at
special clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special license plates; or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a handicapped person and is displaying a parking card or special handicapped
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in a special marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to a special parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at a special clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or a temporary removable windshield
placard or special license plates or when a motor vehicle is being operated by
or for the transport of a handicapped person and is displaying a parking card
or special handicapped license plates, the motor vehicle shall be permitted to
park for a period of two hours in excess of the legal parking period permitted
by local authorities, except where local ordinances or police rules provide
otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in the a manner as to be clearly a
traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility or parking garage where special
parking locations must be designated in accordance with division (E) of this
section shall fail to properly mark the special parking locations as required
by that division or fail to maintain the markings of the special locations,
including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or movable signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or special license
plates if the parking card or special license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      HANDICAPPED PERSON means any person who has lost the use of one or both
legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf or so severely handicapped as to
be unable to move without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair or whose mobility
is restricted by a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary or other handicapping
condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
      SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD mean any license
plates or removable windshield placard or temporary removable windshield
placard issued under R.C. §§ 4503.41 or 4503.44 and also mean any substantially
similar license plates or removable windshield placard or temporary removable
windshield placard issued by a state, district, country or sovereignty.
(R.C. § 4511.69) (Ord. 94-28, passed 4-18-1994)
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or special license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or special
handicapped license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person
neglected to display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)
(a)2. of this section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69)  Penalty see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.08 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle on private property without the express
or implied permission or invitation of the owner or person in control of the
property.
   (B)   Permission or invitation to park on private property may be implied
only when the area where the vehicle is parked is adjacent to a business
establishment and is normally used for parking by patrons of that business and
only when the parking does not violate any parking restrictions clearly noted
on a sign or signs in the area where the vehicle is parked.
(Ord. 94-28, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.09 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF POSTED PROHIBITION.
   (A)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent;
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681)
Cross-reference:
   Towing from private property, requirements, see §
95.01
§ 76.10 LONG-TERM PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person who is the owner, operator or other person in charge of any
vehicle shall permit the vehicle to remain parked, standing or abandoned for a
continuous period longer than the following:
   (A)   On any street in a residential district 48 hours excepting legal
holidays and Sundays.
   (B)   Upon any public parking lot 24 hours excepting legal holidays and
Sundays.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed as effecting any other parking
regulation now in effect or that may hereafter become effective but shall be
construed as an additional parking limitation.
(Ord. 94-28, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.11 MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
   Upon streets where angle parking is permitted, no person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway as
is indicated by appropriate signs or markings.
(Ord. 94-28, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.12 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE ON ROADWAY.
   (A)   No person shall park, place or cause to be placed upon any of the
streets, boulevards or other public places, parks or other property of the
municipality or in the space between the property line and the curb of the
street in the municipality, any motor vehicle, trailer or other vehicle for the
purpose of selling or bartering the same or advertising the same for sale.
   (B)   No person shall repair, wash or clean any vehicle on any street or
park any vehicle for the purpose of so doing. This section shall not be
construed to prohibit the making of such necessary emergency repairs as will
permit a vehicle to proceed.
(Ord. 94-28, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.13 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley,
in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten
feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, except
that a driver may stop temporarily during actual loading or unloading of
passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic-control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
(Ord. 94-28, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.14 PARKING COMMERCIAL VEHICLES ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENTIAL STREETS means those parts,
portions and sections of streets within the corporate limits of the
municipality, which are faced on either or both sides by private residences.
   (B)   No person shall park a school bus, commercial tractor, agricultural
tractor, truck of more than one ton capacity, bus, trailer, semi-trailer, pole
trailer or moving van on any residential street.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the parking of the vehicles for the
purposes of loading or unloading or making a service call. In such cases,
parking of such vehicles shall be permitted only for such a period of time as
is reasonable and necessary to complete the unloading, loading or service call.
(Ord. 94-28, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.15 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to the zones are in effect. In no case shall the
stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.16 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when the
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter the zone and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
the stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park the vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of the
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (D)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park the vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.17 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing such fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of the
ownership.
§ 76.18 WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. The payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for the alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of the offenses shall
require court appearance.
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Through streets
   
II.   Speed limits
   
III.   No thru trucks
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH STREETS.
   The following street sections are to be hereby designated as through
highways:
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street   Location                                                                     Ord. Date
                                                                                      No.  Passed
County   From South Defiance Street to the corporation line (0.25 miles)              99-  9-7-
Road A                                                                                48   1999
         a.   From the Conrail track to State Route 2 (Stryker Street) (0.25 miles)Res.
County   b.   From State Route 2 (Stryker Street) to the north corporation limits  96-  4-1-
Road 24  (0.25 miles)                                                                 31   1996

East     a.    From North Defiance Street to East Garden Apartments (0.50 miles)   Res.
Lutz     b.    From East Garden Apartments to the east corporation limits (0.90    96-  4-1-
Road     miles)                                                                       31   1996

Miller   From South Defiance Street to the corporation line (0.50 miles)              99-  9-7-
Road                                                                                  48   1999
Nolan    From South Defiance Street west to the intersection of Township Road 24      09-  10-19-
Parkway                                                                               60A  2009
Short-                                                                                Res. 4-1-
Buehrer  From South Defiance Street to the west corporation limits (0.50 miles)       96-  1996
Road                                                                                  31
Taylor   Entire length                                                                09-  11-2-
Parkway                                                                               70   2009
Township From East Lutz north to the corporation line (0.50 miles)                    99-  9-7-
Road 22                                                                               48   1999
Weires   Entire length                                                                09-  11-2-
Drive                                                                                 70   2009
West     a.    From South Defiance Street to the Conrail spur track (0.50 miles)   Res.
Barre                                                                                 96-  4-1-
Road     b.    From the Conrail track to Clyde's Way (0.50 miles)                  31   1996

West                                                                                  Res. 4-1-
Lutz     From the west corporation limits to North Defiance Street (0.60 miles)       96-  1996
Road                                                                                  31
 
(Res. 96-31, passed 4-1-1996; Am. Ord. 99-48, passed 9-7-1999 ; Am. Ord. 09-
60A, passed 10-19-2009; Am. Ord. 09-70, passed 11-2-2009)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same
at a speed exceeding the following on roadways and at termini as specified.
Street Speed Limit Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street             Speed Limit Location                 Ord. No.    Date Passed
Clyde's Way        50 mph      From West Barre Road to  Res. 96-34  4-15-1996
                               East Lutz Road
                               From the Conrail track
                               to St. Rt. 2 (Stryker
County Road 24     50 mph      Street)                  Res. 96-34  4-15-1996
                               From St. Rt. 2 (Stryker
                               Street) to the north
                               corporation limit
East Lugbill Road  40 mph      From Myers Road to South Res. 96-34  4-15-1996
                               Defiance Street
                               From North Defiance
                   40 mph      Street to East Garden
East Lutz Road                 Apartments               Res. 96-34  4-15-1996
                               From East Garden
                   50 mph      Apartments to east
                               corporation limit
Myers Road         40 mph      From East Lugbill Road   Res. 96-34  4-15-1996
                               to West Barre Road
                   35 mph      The east 2,618 feet of
Nolan Parkway                  Nolan Parkway            Ord. 09-60A 10-19-2009
                   50 mph      The west 2,664 feet of
                               Nolan Parkway
                               From South Defiance
Short-Buehrer Road 40 mph      Street to the west       Res. 96-34  4-15-1996
                               corporation limit
                               From South Defiance
                   40 mph      Street to Conrail spur
West Barre Road                track                    Res. 96-34  4-15-1996
                               From the Conrail spur
                   45 mph      track to Clyde's Way
                               (Co. Rd. 22)
 
(Res. 96-34, passed 4-15-1996 ; Am. Ord. 09-60A, passed 10-19-2009)  Penalty,
see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. NO THRU TRUCKS.
 
Street    Location                                  Ord. No. Date Passed
Lafayette From S. Defiance Street to County Road 24 2022-36  5-16-2022
 
CHAPTER 78: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
   
II.   Parking time limited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking is prohibited in the following locations at the times indicated:
Street Side Location Time Ord. No. Date Passed
Street        Side      Location      Time           Ord. No.     Date Passed
Barre Road    Both      Entire street All times      00-85        12-4-2000
                        From the
                        intersection
                        of Park
Bluestreak              Street and
Drive         Both      Bluestreak    All times      96-36        6-17-1996
                        Drive to its
                        end point
                        traveling to
                        the south
East Lutz     North     Entire street All times      00-85; 15-53 12-4-2000; 9-
Road                                                              14-2015
                        From the
East Williams           alley in the
Street        North     200 block of  All times      10-32        5-3-2010
                        the corner of
                        Vine Street
Franklin      East      Entire street All times      96-36        6-17-1996
Street
                        From the
                        intersection
                        of the west/
                        east alley
Franklin                between Park  7:30 a.m. - 4:
Street        West      Street and    00 p.m. Monday 96-36        6-17-1996
                        West Mechanic through Friday
                        Street to
                        West Mechanic
                        Street
                        intersection
                        From the
                        corporation
Miller Avenue North     line to       All times      00-85        12-4-2000
                        Defiance
                        Street and on
                        pavement
Nolan Parkway Both      Entire street All times      09-60A       10-19-2009
                        From the
                        intersection
                        of Bluestreak 7:30 a.m. - 4:
Park Street   North     Drive to the  00 p.m. Monday 96-36        6-17-1996
                        South         through Friday
                        Defiance
                        Street
                        intersection
Park Street   South     Entire street All times      96-36        6-17-1996
Short-Buehrer Both      Entire street All times      00-85; 15-53 12-4-2000; 9-
Road                                                              14-2015
South Lincoln East      Entire street All times      10-32        5-3-2010
Street
                        From N.
Stryker                 Defiance
Street        North     Street to     All times      2022-37      5-16-2022
                        Franklin
                        Street
Vine Street   West      Entire street All times      00-85        12-4-2000
West Barre    Both      Entire street All times      15-53        9-14-2015
Road
                        From Stryker
                        Street to
West Field    North and Frey Road,    All times      05-55        12-5-2005
Road          east      also know as
                        Township Road
                        24
West Lutz     South     Entire street All times      00-85; 15-53 12-4-2000; 9-
Road                                                              14-2015
Woodland      Both      Entire street All times      2017-62      9-11-2017
Drive
 
(Ord. 94-28, passed 4-18-1994; Am. Ord. 96-36, passed 6-17-1996; Am. Ord. 00-
85, passed 12-4-2000; Am. Ord. 05-55, passed 12-5-2005; Am. Ord. 09-60A, passed
10-19-2009; Am. Ord. 10-32, passed 5-3-2010; Am. Ord. 11-37, passed 7-18-2011;
Am. Ord. 11-47, passed 9-6-2011; Am. Ord. 15-53, passed 9-14-2015; Am. Ord.
2017-62, passed 9-11-2017; Am. Ord. 2022-37, passed 5-16-2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING TIME LIMITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle for more than three hours from the hour of 7:
00 a.m. to the hour of 6:00 p.m., excepting legal holidays and Sundays, on any
of the following streets or public parking lots:
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                     Location                      Ord. No. Date Passed
Depot Street               Between North Defiance Street 95-24    4-3-1995
                           and Vine Street
Ditto Street               Between Stryker Street and    95-24    4-3-1995
                           West Williams Street
                           Between North Defiance Street
East Holland Street        and the alley in the 100      95-24    4-3-1995
                           block of East Holland Street
                           Both directions of parallel
Holland Street             parking between Ditto Street  -        6-4-2001
                           and North Defiance Street
                           Between Williams Street and
North Defiance Street      the right-of-way of the       95-24    4-3-1995
                           Consolidated Rail Corporation
Stryker Street             Between North Defiance Street 95-24    4-3-1995
                           and Ditto Street
                           Between North Defiance Street
West Holland Street        and the alley in the 100      95-24    4-3-1995
                           block of West Holland Street
West Williams Street       Between North Defiance Street 95-24    4-3-1995
                           and Ditto Street
Public parking lot         South side of the 100 block   00-84    12-4-2000
                           of East Holland Street
Public parking lot -       East side of the 100 block of 95-24    4-3-1995
Northern half              North Defiance Street
Public parking lot -       East side of the 100 block of
Northern half              Ditto Street, abutting 106    95-24    4-3-1995
                           Stryker Street
Public parking lot - North Corner of Holland Street and  -        6-4-2001
side                       Ditto Street
Public parking lot -       Southeast corner of the
Southern half              intersection of Ditto Street  95-24    4-3-1995
                           and West Holland Street
 
(Ord. 94-28, passed 4-18-1994; Am. Ord. 95-24, passed 4-3-1995; Am. Ord. 00-84,
passed 12-4-2000; Am. Ord. passed 6-4-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIREWORKS, EXPLOSIVES, FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   INTOXICATING LIQUOR
      
93.   VILLAGE PARKS
      
94.   VILLAGE CEMETERY
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   TREES
      
97.   NOISE
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Animals Running at Large
   
90.01   Dogs or other animals running at large; nuisance, dangerous or vicious
dogs; hearings
   
90.02   Confining animal found at large; publication of notice; lien
   
90.03   Unavoidable escapes
   
90.04   Fees
   
90.05   Rabies quarantine orders of Mayor
   
90.06   Interfering with enforcement of quarantine orders
   
90.07   Reserved
   
90.08   Dogs may be killed for certain acts
Offenses Relating to Domestic Animals
   
90.10   Abandoning animals
   
90.11   Injuring animals
   
90.12   Poisoning animals
   
90.13   Cruelty to animals; cruelty to companion animals
   
90.14   Animal fights
   
90.15   Defecation on public or private property
   
90.16   Loud dog
   
90.17   Dog tags
   
90.18   Nuisance, dangerous and vicious dog defined; transfer of ownership
certificate; form stating dog’s prior behavior
   
90.19   Failure to register dog or dog kennel
   
90.20   Hindering the capture of unregistered dog
   
90.21   Unlawful tag
   
90.22   Rights of blind, deaf or mobility impaired person with dog trained to
assist
   
90.23   Retail sale and transportation of dogs
   
90.24   Coloring rabbits or baby poultry
   
90.25   Keeping of bees prohibited
   
90.26   Restrictions on dog ownership for certain convicted felons
   
90.27   Sexual conduct with an animal
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Hunting and fishing regulations, see R.C. Chapter 1533
   Possession of dangerous wild animals and restricted snakes, requirements and
licensing, see R.C. Chapter 935
   Rabies: report of dog bite, confinement of animal, report of suspected rabid
animal, see O.A.C. §§ 3701-3-28 through 3701-3-30
   Trapping animals, see O.A.C. § 1501:31-15-03
ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE
§ 90.01 DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; NUISANCE, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS
DOGS; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Animals running at large.
      (1)   No person, who is the owner or keeper of any animal shall permit it
to run at large in the public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon
unenclosed land, or cause the animals to be herded, kept, or detained for the
purpose of grazing on premises other than those owned or lawfully occupied by
the owner or keeper of the animals. ANIMALS means any and all types of living
creatures, other than human beings, whether domesticated or wild, male or
female, singular or plural.
      (2)   Whoever recklessly violates division (A)(1) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 951.99)
      (3)   The owner or keeper of an animal described in division (A)(1) of
this section who negligently permits it to run at large in violation of
division (A)(1) of this section is liable for all damages resulting from
injury, death, or loss to person or property caused by the animal in any of the
places specified in division (A)(1) of this section or upon the premises of
another without reference to the fence that may enclose the premises.
      (4)   The running at large of any animal specified in division (A)(1) of
this section in or upon any of the places specified in division (A)(1) of this
section is prima facie evidence in a civil action for damages under division
(A)(3) of this section that the owner or keeper of the animal negligently
permitted the animal to run at large in violation of division (A)(1) of this
section.
(R.C. § 951.10)
   (B)   Dogs running at large; dangerous dogs; debarked or surgically silenced
dangerous dogs.
      (1)   As used in this division (B), DANGEROUS DOG has the same meaning as
in §
90.18.
      (2)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of any female dog shall permit it to
go beyond the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer at any time the dog is
in heat unless the dog is properly in leash.
      (3)   Except when a dog is lawfully engaged in hunting and accompanied by
the owner, keeper, harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper, or
harborer of any dog shall fail at any time to do either of the following:
         (a)   Keep the dog physically confined or restrained upon the premises
of the owner, keeper, or harborer by a leash, tether, adequate fence,
supervision, or secure enclosure to prevent escape;
         (b)   Keep the dog under the reasonable control of some person.
      (4)   Except when a dangerous dog is lawfully engaged in hunting or
training for the purpose of hunting and is accompanied by the owner, keeper,
harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous
dog shall fail to do either of the following:
         (a)   While the dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, securely confine it at all times in a locked pen that has a top,
locked fenced yard, or other locked enclosure that has a top.
         (b)   While the dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, keep that dog on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than
six feet in length and additionally do at least one of the following: keep the
dog in a locked pen that has a top, locked fenced yard, or other locked
enclosure that has a top; have the leash or tether controlled by a person who
is of suitable age and discretion or securely attach, tie, or affix the leash
or tether to the ground or a stationary object or fixture so that the dog is
adequately restrained and station a person in close enough proximity to that
dog so as to prevent it from causing injury to any person; or muzzle that dog.
      (5)   No person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or
more violations of division (B)(3) of this section involving the same dog and
no owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous dog shall fail to do the
following:
         (a)   Obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write
liability insurance in this state providing coverage in each occurrence because
of damage or bodily injury to or death of a person caused by the dangerous dog
if so ordered by a court and provide proof of that liability insurance upon
request to any law enforcement officer, county dog warden, or public health
official charged with enforcing this section;
         (b)   Obtain a dangerous dog registration certificate from the County
Auditor pursuant to division (B)(9) of this section, affix a tag that
identifies the dog as a dangerous dog to the dog’s collar, and ensure that the
dog wears the collar and tag at all times;
         (c)   Notify the local dog warden immediately if any of the following
occurs:
            1.   The dog is loose or unconfined.
            2.   The dog bites a person, unless the dog is on the property of
the owner of the dog, and the person who is bitten is unlawfully trespassing or
committing a criminal act within the boundaries of that property.
            3.   The dog attacks another animal while the dog is off the
property of the owner of the dog.
         (d)   If the dog is sold, given to another person, or dies, notify the
County Auditor within ten days of the sale, transfer, or death.
      (6)   No person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Debark or surgically silence a dog that the person knows or has
reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
         (b)   Possess a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
         (c)   Falsely attest on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian
under division (B)(7) of this section that the person’s dog is not a dangerous
dog or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
      (7)   Before a veterinarian debarks or surgically silences a dog, the
veterinarian may give the owner of the dog a written waiver form that attests
that the dog is not a dangerous dog. The written waiver form shall include all
of the following:
         (a)   The veterinarian’s license number and current business address;
         (b)   The number of the license of the dog if the dog is licensed;
         (c)   A reasonable description of the age, coloring, and gender of the
dog as well as any notable markings on the dog;
         (d)   The signature of the owner of the dog attesting that the owner’s
dog is not a dangerous dog;
         (e)   A statement that R.C. § 955.22(F) prohibits any person from
doing any of the following:
            1.   Debarking or surgically silencing a dog that the person knows
or has reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
            2.   Possessing a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason
to believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
            3.   Falsely attesting on a waiver form provided by the
veterinarian under R.C. § 955.22(G) that the person’s dog is not a dangerous
dog or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
      (8)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of division
(B)(6) of this section that the veterinarian who is charged with the violation
obtained, prior to debarking or surgically silencing the dog, a written waiver
form that complies with division (B)(7) of this section and that attests that
the dog is not a dangerous dog.
      (9)   (a)   The County Auditor shall issue a dangerous dog registration
certificate to a person who is the owner of a dog, who is 18 years of age or
older, and who provides the following to the County Auditor:
            1.   A fee of $50;
            2.   The person’s address, phone number, and other appropriate
means for the local dog warden or County Auditor to contact the person;
            3.   With respect to the person and the dog for which the
registration is sought, all of the following:
               a.   Either satisfactory evidence of the dog’s current rabies
vaccination or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that a rabies
vaccination is medically contraindicated for the dog;
               b.    Either satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has
been neutered or spayed or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that
neutering or spaying of the dog is medically contraindicated;
               c.    Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the person has
posted and will continue to post clearly visible signs at the person’s
residence warning both minors and adults of the presence of a dangerous dog on
the property;
               d.    Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
permanently identified by means of a microchip and the dog’s microchip number.
         (b)   Upon the issuance of a dangerous dog registration certificate to
the owner of a dog, the County Auditor shall provide the owner with a uniformly
designed tag that identifies the animal as a dangerous dog. The owner shall
renew the certificate annually for the same fee and in the same manner as the
initial certificate was obtained. If a certificate holder relocates to a new
county, the certificate holder shall follow the procedure in division (B)(9)
(c)2. of this section and, upon the expiration of the certificate issued in the
original county, shall renew the certificate in the new county.
         (c)   1.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within the
same county, the owner shall provide notice of the new address to the County
Auditor within ten days of relocating to the new address.
            2.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within
another county, the owner shall do both of the following within ten days of
relocating to the new address:
               a.    Provide written notice of the new address and a copy of
the original dangerous dog registration certificate to the County Auditor of
the new county;
               b.    Provide written notice of the new address to the County
Auditor of the county where the owner previously resided.
         (d)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall present the dangerous dog
registration certificate upon being requested to do so by any law enforcement
officer, dog warden, or public health official charged with enforcing this
section.
(R.C. § 955.22)
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   The municipal court or county court that has territorial
jurisdiction over the residence of the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog
shall conduct any hearing concerning the designation of the dog as a nuisance
dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog.
      (2)   If a person who is authorized to enforce this chapter has
reasonable cause to believe that a dog in the person’s jurisdiction is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the person shall notify the owner,
keeper, or harborer of that dog, by certified mail or in person, of both of the
following:
         (a)   That the person has designated the dog a nuisance dog, dangerous
dog, or vicious dog, as applicable;
         (b)   That the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog may request a
hearing regarding the designation in accordance with this division (C). The
notice shall include instructions for filing a request for a hearing in the
county in which the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer resides.
      (3)   If the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog disagrees with the
designation of the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, as
applicable, the owner, keeper, or harborer, not later than ten days after
receiving notification of the designation, may request a hearing regarding the
determination. The request for a hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the municipal court or county court that has territorial jurisdiction over
the residence of the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer. At the hearing, the
person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog
has the burden of proving, by clear and convincing evidence, that the dog is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of
the dog or the person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog,
or vicious dog may appeal the court’s final determination as in any other case
filed in that court.
      (4)   A court, upon motion of an owner, keeper, or harborer or an
attorney representing the owner, keeper, or harborer, may order that the dog
designated as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog be held in the
possession of the owner, keeper, or harborer until the court makes a final
determination under this section or during the pendency of an appeal, as
applicable. Until the court makes a final determination and during the pendency
of any appeal, the dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the
provisions of division (B)(4) that apply to dangerous dogs regardless of
whether the dog has been designated as a vicious dog or a nuisance dog rather
than a dangerous dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog shall not be
required to comply with any other requirements established in this Code or the
Ohio Revised Code that concern a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog,
as applicable, until the court makes a final determination and during the
pendency of any appeal.
      (5)   If a dog is finally determined under this division (C), or on
appeal as described in this division (C), to be a vicious dog, § 90.18(D) and
divisions (B)(4) to (B)(9) of this section apply with respect to the dog and
the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a dangerous dog,
and § 90.26 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog, and
the court shall issue an order that specifies that those provisions apply with
respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer in that manner. As part
of the order, the court shall require the owner, keeper, or harborer to obtain
the liability insurance required under division (B)(5)(a) in an amount
described in division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
      (6)   As used in this division (C), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.222)
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (B)(3) of this section that involves a dog that is not a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog shall be fined not less than $25 or
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 or more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(1)(a) of
this section, if the offender is guilty of a violation of division (B)(2) of
this section or a violation of division (B)(3) of this section that involves a
dog that is not a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the court may
order the offender to personally supervise the dog that the offender owns,
keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience training, or to
do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a nuisance dog is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the
first offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent
offense involving the same dog. Upon a person being convicted of or pleading
guilty to a third violation of division (B)(3) of this section involving the
same dog, the court shall require the offender to register the involved dog as
a dangerous dog.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, if a violation of division (B)(3) of this section involves a
nuisance dog, the court may order the offender to personally supervise the
nuisance dog that the offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to
complete dog obedience training, or to do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(F))
      (3)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this section that
involves a dangerous dog, or a violation of division (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and of a
misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense. Additionally, the
court may order the offender to personally supervise the dangerous dog that the
offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience
training, or to do both, and the court may order the offender to obtain
liability insurance pursuant to division (B)(5) of this section. The court, in
the alternative, may order the dangerous dog to be humanely destroyed by a
licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the county humane society at
the owner’s expense. With respect to a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a dangerous dog, until the court makes a final
determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of that
division and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or
restrained in accordance with division (B)(4) of this section or at the county
dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(G))
      (4)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a vicious dog is guilty of one of the following:
            1.   A felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the
dog kills or seriously injures a person. Additionally, the court shall order
that the vicious dog be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the
county dog warden, or the county humane society at the owner’s expense.
            2.   A misdemeanor of the first degree if the dog causes serious
injury to a person. Additionally, the court may order the vicious dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society at the owner’s expense.
         (b)   If the court does not order the vicious dog to be destroyed
under division (D)(4)(a)2. of this section, the court shall issue an order that
specifies that § 90.18(D) and divisions (B)(4) to (B)(9) of this section apply
with respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the
dog were a dangerous dog and that § 90.26 applies with respect to the dog as if
it were a dangerous dog. As part of the order, the court shall order the
offender to obtain the liability insurance required under division (B)(5)(a) of
this section in an amount, exclusive of interest and costs, that equals or
exceeds $100,000. Until the court makes a final determination and during the
pendency of any appeal of a violation of division (B)(3) of this section and at
the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or restrained in
accordance with the provisions described in division (B)(4) of this section or
at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(H))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(J))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), or (B)(6)(c) of
this section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. Additionally, the court shall order that the dog involved in the violation
be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society. Until the court makes a final determination and during
the pendency of any appeal of a violation of division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), or
(B)(6)(c) of this section and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog
shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions of division
(B)(4) of this section or at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(L))
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(a), (B)(5)(c), or (B)(5)(d) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(M))
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(9)(d) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(N))
      (9)   (a)   If a dog is confined at the county dog pound pursuant to
division (D)(3), (D)(4), or (D)(6) of this section, the county dog warden shall
give written notice of the confinement to the owner of the dog. If the county
dog warden is unable to give the notice to the owner of the dog, the county dog
warden shall post the notice on the door of the residence of the owner of the
dog or in another conspicuous place on the premises at which the dog was
seized. The notice shall include a statement that a security in the amount of
$100 is due to the county dog warden within ten days to secure payment of all
reasonable expenses, including medical care and boarding of the dog for 60
days, expected to be incurred by the county dog pound in caring for the dog
pending the determination. The county dog warden may draw from the security any
actual costs incurred in caring for the dog.
         (b)   If the person ordered to post security under division (D)(9)(a)
of this section does not do so within ten days of the confinement of the
animal, the dog is forfeited, and the county dog warden may determine the
disposition of the dog unless the court issues an order that specifies
otherwise.
         (c)   Not more than ten days after the court makes a final
determination under division (D)(3), (D)(4), or (D)(6) of this section, the
county dog warden shall provide the owner of the dog with the actual cost of
the confinement of the dog. If the county dog warden finds that the security
provided under division (D)(9)(a) of this section is less than the actual cost
of confinement of the dog, the owner shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the county dog warden within 30 days
after the court’s determination. If the county dog warden finds that the
security provided under division (D)(9)(a) of this section is greater than that
actual cost, the county dog warden shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the owner within 30 days after the
court’s determination.
(R.C. § 955.99(P))
      (10)   As used in this division (D), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.99(Q))
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate animals running at large, see R.C. §§ 715.23 and 955.221
§ 90.02 CONFINING ANIMAL FOUND AT LARGE; PUBLICATION OF NOTICE; LIEN.
   A person finding an animal at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) may, and a law enforcement officer of the municipality on view or
information shall, take and confine that animal, promptly giving notice of the
taking and confining of the animal to the owner or keeper, if known, and if not
known, by publishing a notice describing the animal once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county or municipality where the animal was found.
If the owner or keeper does not appear and claim the animal and pay the
compensation prescribed in §
90.04 for so taking, advertising, and keeping it within ten days from the date
of the notice, that person or the county shall have a lien for that
compensation and the animal may be sold at public auction as provided in R.C. §
1311.49. The residue of the proceeds of sale shall be paid and deposited by the
Treasurer in the General Funds of the county.
(R.C. § 951.11)
§ 90.03 UNAVOIDABLE ESCAPES.
   If it is proven that an animal running at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) escaped from its owner or keeper without the owner’s or keeper’s
knowledge or fault, the animal shall be returned to its owner or keeper upon
payment of the compensation prescribed in §
90.04 for its taking, advertising and keeping.
(R.C. § 951.12)
§ 90.04 FEES.
   (A)   The person or municipality whose law enforcement officer takes an
animal running at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) is entitled to receive from the owner or keeper of the animal the
following compensation:
      (1)   For taking and advertising each animal, $5.00; and
      (2)   Reasonable expenses actually incurred for keeping each animal.
   (B)   Compensation for taking, advertising, and keeping a single herd or
flock shall not exceed $50.00 when the flock or herd belongs to one person.
(R.C. § 951.13)
§ 90.05 RABIES QUARANTINE ORDERS OF MAYOR.
   (A)   Whenever, in the judgment of the Mayor or his or her designee, rabies
is prevalent, he or she shall declare a quarantine of all dogs in the
municipality or a part thereof. During the quarantine, the owner, keeper or
harborer of any dog shall keep it confined on the premises of the owner, keeper
or harborer or in a pound, kennel, or other suitable place, at the expense of
the owner, keeper or harborer, except that a dog may be permitted to leave the
premises of its owner, keeper or harborer if it is under leash or under the
control of a responsible person. The quarantine order shall be considered an
emergency and need not be published.
   (B)   When the quarantine has been declared, the Mayor or his or her
designee may require the vaccination for rabies of all dogs within the
municipality or part thereof.
(R.C. § 955.26)
   (C)   No person shall violate a rabies quarantine order issued under this
section or R.C. § 955.26.
(R.C. § 955.39)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor for a first offense; for each subsequent offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(C))
§ 90.06 INTERFERING WITH ENFORCEMENT OF QUARANTINE ORDERS.
   (A)   No person shall hinder, obstruct, resist or interfere with any
enforcing officer while engaged in enforcing an order issued under §
90.05.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 RESERVED.
§ 90.08 DOGS MAY BE KILLED FOR CERTAIN ACTS.
   Subject to R.C. § 955.261(A)(2) and (3), a dog that is chasing or
approaching in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack that attempts
to bite or otherwise endanger, or that kills or injures a person, or a dog that
chases, threatens, harasses, injures or kills livestock, poultry, other
domestic animal or other animal that is the property of another person, except
a cat or another dog, can be killed at the time of that chasing, threatening,
harassment, approaching, attempt, killing or injury. If, in attempting to kill
such a dog, a person wounds it, the person is not liable to prosecution under
the criminal laws or ordinances that punish cruelty to animals. Nothing in this
section precludes a law enforcement officer from killing a dog that attacks a
police dog as defined in R.C. § 2921.321.
(R.C. § 955.28(A))
OFFENSES RELATING TO DOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 90.10 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat or other domestic animal shall
abandon the animal.
(R.C. § 959.01)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(3))
§ 90.11 INJURING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, kill or injure a dog, cat or any other domestic animal that is the
property of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian
acting in an official capacity.
(R.C. § 959.02)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
If the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300 or more,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(B))
   (C)   This section does not apply to a person killing or injuring an animal
or attempting to do so while endeavoring to prevent it from trespassing upon
his or her enclosure, or while it is so trespassing, or while driving it away
from his or her premises; provided, within 15 days thereafter, payment is made
for damages done to the animal by killing or injuring, less the actual amount
of damage done by the animal while so trespassing, or a sufficient sum of money
is deposited with the nearest judge of a county court or judge of a municipal
court having jurisdiction within such time to cover the damages. The deposit
shall remain in the custody of the judge until there is a determination of the
damage resulting from the killing or injury and from the trespass. The judge
and his or her bondsperson shall be responsible for the safekeeping of the
money and for the payment thereof as for money collected upon a judgment.
(R.C. § 959.04)
§ 90.12 POISONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, administer poison, except a licensed veterinarian acting in such
capacity, to a dog, cat or any other domestic animal that is the property of
another; and no person shall, willfully and without the consent of the owner,
place any poisoned food where it may be easily found and eaten by any such
animal, either upon his or her own lands or the lands of another.
(R.C. § 959.03)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
   (C)   This section does not apply to a person killing or injuring an animal
or attempting to do so while endeavoring to prevent it from trespassing upon
his or her enclosure, or while it is so trespassing, or while driving it away
from his or her premises; provided that, within 15 days thereafter, payment is
made for damages done to the animal by killing or injuring, less the actual
amount of damage done by the animal while so trespassing, or a sufficient sum
of money is deposited with the nearest judge of a county court or judge of a
municipal court having jurisdiction within such time to cover the damages. The
deposit shall remain in the custody of the judge until there is a determination
of the damage resulting from the killing or injury and from the trespass. The
judge and his or her bondsperson shall be responsible for the safekeeping of
the money and for the payment thereof as for money collected upon a judgment.
(R.C. § 959.04)
§ 90.13 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; CRUELTY TO COMPANION ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or
confine an animal without supplying it during the confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during the
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow or excessive direct
sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer. This division does not apply to
animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, SHELTER means an artificial enclosure, windbreak, sunshade or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth’s contour, tree
development or vegetation;
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;
      (4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk; and
      (5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than 28
hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food,
water and attention, nor permit the stock to be so crowded as to overlie,
crush, wound or kill each other.
   (B)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which the livestock may be detained in any cars or compartment without
food, water and attention may be extended to 36 hours without penalty therefor.
This section does not prevent the dehorning of cattle.
   (C)   All fines collected for violations of this section shall be paid to
the society or association for the prevention of cruelty to animals, if there
is one in the municipality; otherwise, all fines shall be paid to the general
fund.
(R.C. § 959.13)
   (D)   Cruelty to companion animals.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         BOARDING KENNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         CAPTIVE WHITE-TAILED DEER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
         COMPANION ANIMAL. Means any animal that is kept inside a residential
dwelling and any dog or cat regardless of where it is kept, including a pet
store as defined in R.C. § 956.01. The term does not include livestock or any
wild animal.
         CRUELTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         DOG KENNEL. Means an animal rescue for dogs that is registered under
R.C. § 956.06, a boarding kennel, or a training kennel.
         FEDERAL ANIMAL WELFARE ACT. Means the “Laboratory Animal Act of 1966",
Pub. L. No. 89-544, 80 Stat. 350 (1966), 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., as amended
by the “Animal Welfare Act of 1970", Pub. L. No. 91-579, 84 Stat. 1560 (1970),
the “Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1976", Pub. L. No. 94-279, 90 Stat. 417
(1976), and the “Food Security Act of 1985", Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1354
(1985), and as it may be subsequently amended.
         LIVESTOCK. Means horses, mules, and other equidae; cattle, sheep,
goats, and other bovidae; swine and other suidae; poultry; alpacas; llamas;
captive white-tailed deer; and any other animal that is raised or maintained
domestically for food or fiber.
         PRACTICE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4741.01.
         RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Means a structure or shelter or the portion of a
structure or shelter that is used by one or more humans for the purpose of a
habitation.
         SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Means any of the following:
            1.   Physical harm that carries an unnecessary or unjustifiable
substantial risk of death;
            2.   Physical harm that involves either partial or total permanent
incapacity;
            3.   Physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain;
            4.   Physical harm that results from a person who confines or who
is the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal depriving the companion
animal of good, wholesome food and water that proximately causes the death of
the companion animal.
         TORMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         TORTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         TRAINING KENNEL. Means an establishment operating for profit that
keeps, houses, and maintains dogs for the purpose of training the dogs in
return for a fee or other consideration.
         WILD ANIMAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or
maim, cruelly beat, poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty
against a companion animal.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly cause serious physical harm to a
companion animal.
      (4)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (5)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall knowingly do any of the
following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or maim, cruelly beat,
poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty against the companion
animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it is reasonably
expected that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain or suffering as a result of the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it is reasonably expected
that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or unjustifiable
pain or suffering as a result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (6)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of
the following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (7)   Divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(4), (D)(5), and (D)(6) of this
section do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A companion animal used in scientific research conducted by an
institution in accordance with the federal animal welfare act and related
regulations;
         (b)   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine by a person who has
been issued a license, temporary permit, or registration certificate to do so
under R.C. Chapter 4741;
         (c)   Dogs being used or intended for use for hunting or field trial
purposes, provided that the dogs are being treated in accordance with usual and
commonly accepted practices for the care of hunting dogs;
         (d)   The use of common training devices, if the companion animal is
being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the
training of animals;
         (e)   The administering of medicine to a companion animal that was
properly prescribed by a person who has been issued a license, temporary
permit, or registration certificate under R.C. Chapter 4741.
      (8)   Notwithstanding any section of the Ohio Revised Code that otherwise
provides for the distribution of fine moneys, the Clerk of Court shall forward
all fines the Clerk collects that are so imposed for any violation of this
division (D) to the Treasurer of the municipality, whose county humane society
or law enforcement agency is to be paid the fine money as determined under this
division. The Treasurer shall pay the fine moneys to the county humane society
or the county, township, municipal corporation, or state law enforcement agency
in this state that primarily was responsible for or involved in the
investigation and prosecution of the violation. If a county humane society
receives any fine moneys under this division, the county humane society shall
use the fine moneys either to provide the training that is required for humane
society agents under R.C. § 1717.061 or to provide additional training for
humane society agents.
(R.C. § 959.131)
   (E)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender
to forfeit the animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition
including but not limited to the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal
or livestock is forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the proceeds from
the sale first shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard to the
care of the animal from the time it was taken from the custody of the former
owner. The balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the
former owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (D)(2) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(3) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (D)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D)(5) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (D)(6) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   (a)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section to forfeit to an
impounding agency, as defined in R.C. § 959.132, any or all of the companion
animals in that person’s ownership or care. The court also may prohibit or
place limitations on the person’s ability to own or care for any companion
animals for a specified or indefinite period of time.
         (b)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (A) of this section or division (D) of this section
to reimburse an impounding agency for the reasonably necessary costs incurred
by the agency for the care of a companion animal that the agency impounded as a
result of the investigation or prosecution of the violation, provided that the
costs were not otherwise paid under R.C. § 959.132.
      (7)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section suffers from a
mental or emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may
impose as a community control sanction or as a condition of probation a
requirement that the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling.
The court shall order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or
counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E))
§ 90.14 ANIMAL FIGHTS.
   (A)    No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Engage in cockfighting, bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against
another;
      (2)   Use, train, or possess any animal for seizing, detaining, or
maltreating a domestic animal.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Be employed at cockfighting, bear-baiting, or pitting an animal
against another;
      (2)   Do any of the following regarding an event involving cockfighting,
bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against another:
         (a)   Wager money or anything else of value on the results of the
event;
         (b)   Pay money or give anything else of value in exchange for
admission to or being present at the event;
         (c)   Receive money or anything else of value in exchange for the
admission of another person to the event or for another person to be present at
the event;
         (d)   Use, possess, or permit or cause to be present at the event any
device or substance intended to enhance an animal’s ability to fight or to
inflict injury on another animal;
         (e)   Permit or cause a minor to be present at the event if any person
present at or involved with the event is conducting any of the activities
described in division (B)(1) or (B)(2)(a), (B)(2)(b), (B)(2)(c), or (B)(2)(d)
of this section.
   (C)   A person who knowingly witnesses cockfighting, bearbaiting, or an
event in which one animal is pitted against another when a violation of
division (B) of this section is occurring at the cockfighting, bearbaiting, or
event is an aider and abettor and has committed a violation of this division.
(R.C. § 959.15)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 959.99(C), (I))
Statutory reference:
   Dogfighting, felony provisions, see R.C. § 959.16
§ 90.15 DEFECATION ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any dog, cat or other animal shall
knowingly permit the animal to defecate on the property, either public or
private, of another without the owner, keeper or harborer having in his or her
possession the necessary tools or equipment to remove the defecation.
   (B)   The owner, keeper or harborer shall use the necessary tools and
equipment to remove defecation from the property forthwith.
(Ord. 90-25, passed 5-7-1990) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 LOUD DOG.
   No owner, keeper or harborer of a dog shall permit or allow the dog to annoy
or disturb one or more of the inhabitants of two or more separate residences of
this municipality by the frequent or habitual howling, yelping, barking or
making of any other unreasonably loud and disturbing noises of such character,
intensity and duration as to disturb the peace, quiet and good order of the
municipality. Any person who shall allow any animal habitually to remain, be
lodged or fed within any dwelling, building, yard or enclosure owned or
occupied by the person shall be considered as keeping or harboring the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 DOG TAGS.
   (A)   No owner of a dog, except a dog constantly confined to a dog kennel
registered under R.C. Chapter 955 or one licensed under R.C. Chapter 956, shall
fail to require the dog to wear, at all times, a valid tag issued in connection
with a certificate of registration. A dog found not wearing at any time a valid
tag shall be prima-facie evidence of lack of registration and shall subject any
dog found not wearing such a tag to impounding, sale, or destruction.
(R.C. § 955.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 90.18 NUISANCE, DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOG DEFINED; TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP
CERTIFICATE; FORM STATING DOG’S PRIOR BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   A dog that, without provocation, and subject to division (b) of
this definition, has done any of the following:
            1.   Caused injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any
person;
            2.   Killed another dog;
            3.   Been the subject of a third or subsequent violation of R.C. §
955.22(C) or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   “Dangerous dog” does not include a police dog that has caused
injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any person or has killed
another dog while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law
enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      MENACING FASHION. Means a dog that would cause any person being chased or
approached to reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical injury to
that person.
      NUISANCE DOG.
         (a)   Subject to division (b) of this definition, “nuisance dog” means
a dog that without provocation and while off the premises of its owner, keeper,
or harborer has chased or approached a person in either a menacing fashion or
an apparent attitude of attack or has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger
any person.
         (b)   “Nuisance dog” does not include a police dog that, while being
used to assist one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of
official duties, has chased or approached a person in either a menacing fashion
or an apparent attitude of attack or has attempted to bite or otherwise
endanger any person.
      POLICE DOG. Means a dog that has been trained and may be used to assist
one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      SERIOUS INJURY. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
         (b)   Any physical harm that involves a permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or a temporary, substantial incapacity;
         (c)   Any physical harm that involves a permanent disfigurement or a
temporary, serious disfigurement;
         (d)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or any degree of prolonged or intractable
pain.
      VICIOUS DOG.
         (a)   A dog that, without provocation and subject to division (b) of
this definition, has killed or caused serious injury to any person.
         (b)   “Vicious dog” does not include either of the following:
            1.   A police dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any
person while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law enforcement
officers in the performance of their official duties;
            2.   A dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any person
while a person was committing or attempting to commit a trespass or other
criminal offense on the property of the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog.
      WITHOUT PROVOCATION. A dog acts without provocation when it was not
teased, tormented, or abused by a person, or it was not coming to the aid or
the defense of a person who was not engaged in illegal or criminal activity and
who was not using the dog as a means of carrying out such activity.
   (B)   Upon the transfer of ownership of any dog, the seller of the dog shall
give the buyer a transfer of ownership certificate that shall be signed by the
seller. The certificate shall contain the registration number of the dog, the
name of the seller, and a brief description of the dog. Blank forms of the
certificate may be obtained from the County Auditor. A transfer of ownership
shall be recorded by the Auditor upon presentation of a transfer of ownership
certificate that is signed by the former owner of a dog and that is accompanied
by a fee of $5.
   (C)   Prior to the transfer of ownership or possession of any dog, upon the
buyer’s or other transferee’s request, the seller or other transferor of the
dog shall give to the person a written notice relative to the behavior and
propensities of the dog.
   (D)   Within ten days after the transfer of ownership or possession of any
dog, if the seller or transferor of the dog has knowledge that the dog is a
dangerous dog, the seller or other transferor shall give to the buyer or
transferee, the Board of Health for the district in which the buyer or other
transferee resides, and the dog warden of the county in which the buyer or
other transferee resides a completed copy of a written form on which the seller
shall furnish the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the buyer or other transferee of the dog;
      (2)   The age, sex, color, breed and current registration number of the
dog;
      (3)   In addition, the seller shall answer the following questions which
shall be specifically stated on the form as follows:
         Has the dog ever chased or attempted to attack or bite a person? If
yes, describe the incident(s) in which the behavior occurred.
         Has the dog ever bitten a person? If yes, describe the incident(s) in
which the behavior occurred.
         Has the dog ever seriously injured or killed a person? If yes,
describe the incident(s) in which the behavior occurred.
      (4)   The dog warden of the county in which the seller resides furnishes
the form to the seller at no cost.
   (E)   No seller or other transferor of a dog shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of divisions (B) to (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 955.11)
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section because failure to
comply with division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section because of a failure
to comply with division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on
each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 955.99(A))
§ 90.19 FAILURE TO REGISTER DOG OR DOG KENNEL.
   (A)   No owner, keeper or harborer of a dog more than three months of age,
nor owner of a dog kennel, shall fail to file an application for registration
required by R.C. § 955.01, nor shall he or she fail to pay the legal fee
therefor.
(R.C. § 955.21)
   (B)   Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring, maintaining or
having the care, custody or control of a vicious dog shall:
      (1)   Register the dog with the Police Department annually between
January 2 and January 20 and within 30 days when a vicious dog is obtained;
      (2)   At the time of registration provide proof of liability insurance as
required by §
90.01(B)(5);
      (3)   Notify the Police Department within 72 hours if the dangerous or
vicious dog has died or has been sold or donated, and provide the Police
Department with the name, address and telephone number of the new owner;
      (4)   Pay an annual registration fee of $25 to cover the administrative
expenses associated herewith;
      (5)   Have their dog spayed or neutered; and
      (6)   Upon moving into the village register their dog within 30 days and
have the dog spayed or neutered within 30 days.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
§ 90.20 HINDERING THE CAPTURE OF UNREGISTERED DOG.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct or interfere with anyone lawfully engaged in
capturing an unlicensed dog or making an examination of a dog wearing a tag.
(R.C. § 955.24)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 90.21 UNLAWFUL TAG.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor a dog wearing a fictitious,
altered or invalid registration tag or a registration tag not issued by the
County Auditor in connection with the registration of that animal.
(R.C. § 955.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 90.22 RIGHTS OF BLIND, DEAF OR MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON WITH DOG TRAINED TO
ASSIST.
   (A)   When either a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person, or a trainer of an assistance dog is accompanied by an assistance dog,
the person or the trainer, as applicable, is entitled to the full and equal
accommodations, advantages, facilities, and privileges of all public
conveyances, hotels, and lodging places, all places of public accommodation,
amusement, or resort, and other places to which the general public is invited,
and may take the dog into such conveyances and places, subject only to the
conditions and limitations applicable to all persons not so accompanied, except
that:
      (1)   The dog shall not occupy a seat in any public conveyance; and
      (2)   The dog shall be leashed while using the facilities of a common
carrier.
      (3)   Any dog in training to become an assistance dog shall be covered by
a liability insurance policy provided by the nonprofit special agency engaged
in such work protecting members of the public against personal injury or
property damage caused by the dog.
   (B)   No person shall deprive a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person, or a trainer of an assistance dog who is accompanied by an
assistance dog of any of the advantages, facilities, or privileges provided in
division (A) of this section, nor charge the person or trainer a fee or charge
for the dog.
(R.C. § 955.43(A), (B))
   (C)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG. Means a guide dog, hearing dog, or service dog that has
been trained by a nonprofit special agency.
      BLIND. Means either of the following:
         (a)   Vision 20/200 or less in the better eye with proper correction;
         (b)   Field defect in the better eye with proper correction that
contracts the peripheral field so that the diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      GUIDE DOG. Means a dog that has been trained or is in training to assist
a blind person.
      HEARING DOG. Means a dog that has been trained or is in training to
assist a deaf or hearing- impaired person.
      INSTITUTIONS OF EDUCATION. Means:
         (a)   Any state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.32;
         (b)   Any private college or university that holds a certificate of
authorization issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter
1713;
         (c)   Any elementary or secondary school operated by a board of
education;
         (d)   Any chartered or nonchartered nonpublic elementary or secondary
school; or
         (e)   Any school issued a certificate of registration by the state
Board of Career Colleges and Schools.
      MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON. Means any person, regardless of age, who is
subject to a physiological defect or deficiency regardless of its cause,
nature, or extent that renders the person unable to move about without the aid
of crutches, a wheelchair, or any other form of support, or that limits the
person’s functional ability to ambulate, climb, descend, sit, rise, or perform
any related function. The term includes a person with a neurological or
psychological disability that limits the person’s functional ability to
ambulate, climb, descend, sit, rise, or perform any related function, and also
includes a person with a seizure disorder and a person who is diagnosed with
autism.
      SERVICE DOG. Means a dog that has been trained or is in training to
assist a mobility impaired person.
(R.C. §§ 955.011(B), 955.43(C))
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(D))
§ 90.23 RETAIL SALE AND TRANSPORTATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer to sell or expose for sale to the general
public at retail any dog under the age of eight weeks.
   (B)   No person shall receive or ship, for sale to the general public at
retail, any dog that is not accompanied by a certificate, issued by a licensed
veterinarian who is accredited by the United States Department of Agriculture
and authorized to issue health certificates for animals in interstate commerce,
certifying that the dog is sufficiently sound and healthy to be reasonably
expected to withstand the intended transportation without adverse effect.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the transportation of dogs in
interstate commerce by common carrier; provided that, neither the point of
shipment nor the point of receiving is within this state.
   (D)   No person responsible for the transportation of a pregnant dog shall
be liable in damages for any injury or illness of, or the death of, the dog or
any puppies, whenever the injuries, illness or death results from the birth of
the puppies during the time the dog is being transported.
(R.C. § 955.50)
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a
first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(C))
§ 90.24 COLORING RABBITS OR BABY POULTRY.
   (A)   No person shall dye or otherwise color any rabbit or baby poultry,
including, but not limited to, chicks and ducklings. No person shall sell,
offer for sale, expose for sale, raffle or give away any rabbit or baby poultry
which has been dyed or otherwise colored. No poultry younger than four weeks of
age may be sold, given away or otherwise distributed to any person in lots of
less than six. Stores, shops, vendors and others offering young poultry for
sale or other distribution shall provide and operate brooders or other heating
devices that may be necessary to maintain poultry in good health and shall keep
adequate food and water available to the poultry at all times.
(R.C. § 925.62)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 925.99(B))
§ 90.25 KEEPING OF BEES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor bees within the
municipal limits of the village.
(Ord. 90-25, passed 5-7-1990) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 RESTRICTIONS ON DOG OWNERSHIP FOR CERTAIN CONVICTED FELONS.
   (A)   No person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony offense of
violence committed on or after May 22, 2012 or a felony violation of any
provision of R.C. Chapter 959, R.C. Chapter 2923 or R.C. Chapter 2925 committed
on or after May 22, 2012 shall knowingly own, possess, have custody of, or
reside in a residence with either of the following for a period of three years
commencing either upon the date of release of the person from any period of
incarceration imposed for the offense or violation or, if the person is not
incarcerated for the offense or violation, upon the date of the person’s final
release from the other sanctions imposed for the offense or violation:
      (1)   An unspayed or unneutered dog older than 12 weeks of age;
      (2)   Any dog that has been determined to be a dangerous dog under R.C.
Chapter 955 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (B)   A person described in division (A) of this section shall microchip for
permanent identification any dog owned, possessed by, or in the custody of the
person.
   (C)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
confined in a correctional institution of the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person with
respect to any dog that the person owned, possessed, had custody of, or resided
in a residence with prior to May 22, 2012.
(R.C. § 955.54)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(O))
§ 90.27 SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH AN ANIMAL.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ANIMAL. Means a nonhuman mammal, bird, reptile, or amphibian, either dead
or alive.
      OFFENSE. Means a violation of this section or an attempt, in violation of
R.C. § 2923.02, to violate this section.
      OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 959.132.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Means either of the following committed for the purpose
of sexual gratification:
         (a)   Any act done between a person and animal that involves contact
of the penis of one and the vulva of the other, the penis of one and the penis
of the other, the penis of one and the anus of the other, the mouth of one and
the penis of the other, the mouth of one and the anus of the other, the vulva
of one and the vulva of the other, the mouth of one and the vulva of the other,
any other contact between a reproductive organ of one and a reproductive organ
of the other, or any other insertion of a reproductive organ of one into an
orifice of the other;
         (b)   Without a bona fide veterinary or animal husbandry purpose to do
so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of a person’s body or any
instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal, anal, or reproductive
opening of an animal.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly engage in sexual conduct with an animal or
knowingly possess, sell, or purchase an animal with the intent that it be
subjected to sexual conduct.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly organize, promote, aid, or abet in the
conduct of an act involving any sexual conduct with an animal.
(R.C. § 959.21)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender to forfeit the
animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition including but not
limited to the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal or livestock is
forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the proceeds from the sale first
shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard to the care of the
animal from the time it was taken from the custody of the former owner. The
balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the former
owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
      (2)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of this section suffers from a mental or
emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a
community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that
the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall
order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(7))
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition to other penalties imposed, whoever is convicted of any
provision of this chapter shall pay a charge for picking up the animal of $20
for a first offense, $50 for a second offense and $100 for a third or
subsequent offense.
CHAPTER 91: FIREWORKS, EXPLOSIVES, FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Ohio Fire Code adopted by reference
   
91.02   Outdoor fires regulated
   
91.03   Smoke detectors
Fireworks
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Possession, sale and use of fireworks
   
91.22   Permit to use fireworks
   
91.23   Manufacturing or wholesale sale without a license; prohibitions
   
91.24   Purchasers to comply with law; unauthorized purchases
   
91.25   Exhibition without a license; prohibitions for exhibitions
   
91.26   Unauthorized transportation or shipping
   
91.27   Application of subchapter
   
91.28   Arrest of offender; seizure and forfeiture of fireworks; distribution
of fines
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Explosives, ammunition and blasting agents, regulations, see O.A.C. § 1301:
7-7-30
   Fire Marshal, fire safety, see R.C. Chapter 3737
   Fire prevention regulations, see O.A.C. § 1301:7-7-03
   Fireworks, state law provisions, see R.C. Chapter 3743
   Ohio Fire Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 1301:7
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 OHIO FIRE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Ohio Fire Code, as presently promulgated, is adopted by reference.
The code is hereby incorporated by reference into this chapter pursuant to R.C.
§ 731.231.
   (B)   The purpose of this code is to prescribe minimum requirements
regarding storage and use of materials so as to prevent the risk of fire and
explosions.
   (C)   A complete copy of the code is on file with the Village Clerk for
inspection by the public and a complete copy of such is also on file in the law
library of the county. The Village Clerk has copies of the code available for
distribution to the public at cost.
   (D)   The code is hereby amended to include the following provisions.
      (1)   Section FM-2804.10 Restriction on the storage of flammable and
combustible liquids in residential areas. No underground storage tanks for
flammable and combustible liquids, excepting those which are used for the
heating of a building or residence, and otherwise comply with this Fire Code,
shall be permitted within any district which is zoned R-1, R-2 or R-3. This
section shall not apply to any tank which has been installed prior to the
effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   Section FM-2803.5 Above ground tanks prohibited in residential
areas. No above ground flammable and combustible liquids storage tanks that
exceed five gallons shall be permitted within an district which is zoned R-1,
R-2 and R-3 within the village.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly violate any provision of the state’s Fire
Code or any order made pursuant to it.
(R.C. § 3737.51(A))
   (F)   Except as a violation of R.C. § 2923.17, regarding the felonies of
unlawful possession of a dangerous ordnance and illegal manufacture or
processing of explosives, which violation involves subject matter covered by
the state’s Fire Code, whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(B))
(Ord. 75-35, passed - -1975; Am. Ord. 91-26, passed 5-20-1991) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 OUTDOOR FIRES REGULATED.
   No person shall kindle or maintain an outdoor fire within the village for
the purpose of burning leaves, branches, rubbish or any other waste material.
(Ord. 81-56, passed 12-21-1981) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   No single-family, two-family or multi-family dwelling shall be
constructed within the village without the installation of smoke detectors as
follows:
      (1)   For single-family dwellings: not less than one smoke detector for
each story;
      (2)   For two-family dwellings: not less than one smoke detector for each
story for each family unit; and
      (3)   For multi-family dwellings: not less than one smoke detector for
each story for each family unit.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, attics and basements shall be considered
as separate stories and in split level dwellings, each separate level shall be
considered as a separate story.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to complete construction of a single-family, two-family or multi-family
dwelling without installing smoke detectors, as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 79-4, passed 1-8-1979) Penalty, see §
91.99
FIREWORKS
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   1.3G FIREWORKS. Display fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.3” in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.
   1.4G FIREWORKS. Consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.4” in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.
   BEER and INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Have the same meaning as in §
92.01.
   BOOBY TRAP. A small tube that has a string protruding from both ends that
has a friction-sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling the ends of
the string.
   CIGARETTE LOAD. A small wooden peg that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation, except
ordinary matches and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80.
   FIREWORKS PLANT. All buildings and other structures in which the
manufacturing of fireworks, or the storage or sale of manufactured fireworks by
a manufacturer, takes place.
   HIGHWAY. Any public street, road, alley, way, lane or other public
thoroughfare.
   LICENSED BUILDING. A building on the licensed premises of a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks that is approved for occupancy by the
building official having jurisdiction.
   LICENSED EXHIBITOR OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED EXHIBITOR. A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED MANUFACTURER. A person
licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The real estate upon which a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler of fireworks conducts business.
   LICENSED WHOLESALER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED WHOLESALER. A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.15 through 3743.21.
   LIST OF LICENSED EXHIBITORS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.51(C).
   LIST OF LICENSED MANUFACTURERS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.03(C).
   LIST OF LICENSED WHOLESALERS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.16(C).
   MANUFACTURING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from raw materials, none
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, or the processing of
fireworks.
   NAVIGABLE WATERS. Any body of water susceptible of being used in its
ordinary condition as a highway of commerce over which trade and travel is or
may be conducted in the customary modes, but does not include a body of water
that is not capable of navigation by barges, tugboats, and other large vessels.
   NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS.
      (1)   Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the user,
including, but not limited to, booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers and
snappers;
      (2)   Snakes or glow worms;
      (3)   Smoke devices; and
      (4)   Trick matches.
   PARTY POPPER. A small plastic or paper item that contains not more than 16
milligrams of friction- sensitive explosive composition that is ignited by
pulling a string protruding from the item, and from which paper streamers are
expelled when the item is ignited.
   PROCESSING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from materials all or part
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, but does not include the
mere packaging or repackaging of fireworks.
   RAILROAD. Any railway or railroad that carries freight or passengers for
hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs and sidings installed and
primarily used in serving a mine, quarry or plant.
   RETAIL SALE or SELL AT RETAIL. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to use the fireworks and not to resell them.
   SMOKE DEVICE. A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic composition that,
upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
   SNAKE or GLOW WORM. A device that consists of a pressed pellet of
pyrotechnic composition that produces a large snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
   SNAPPER. A small paper-wrapped item that contains a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand and that, when dropped,
implodes.
   TRICK MATCH. A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small report or a
shower of sparks.
   WIRE SPARKLER. A sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated with a
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition
and that contains no more than 100 grams of this mixture.
   WHOLESALE SALE or SELL AT WHOLESALE. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to resell the fireworks so purchased.
(R.C. § 3743.01)
§ 91.21 POSSESSION, SALE AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)    No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08, a
licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.15 through
3743.21, a shipping permit holder as authorized by R.C. § 3743.40, an out-of-
state resident as authorized by R.C. § 3743.44, a resident of this state as
authorized by R.C. 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as authorized
by §
91.22 and R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
91.27, and except for licensed exhibitors of fireworks authorized to conduct a
fireworks exhibition pursuant to §
91.22 and R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55, no person shall discharge, ignite or
explode any fireworks in this municipality. This prohibition continues the ban
of the discharge, ignition, or explosion of fireworks by any person not
licensed to do so within the territorial limits of the Village of Archbold,
and, pursuant to R.C. § 3743.45(D)(2), as effective July 1, 2022, enacts such
ban superseding provisions permitting such discharge, ignition, or explosion of
fireworks by said R.C. § 3743.45. (Ord. 2022-43, passed 8-1-2022)
   (C)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
   (D)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18 years
of age. No person under 18 years of age shall enter a fireworks sales showroom
unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or other
responsible adult. No person under 18 years of age shall touch or possess
fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3743.44, no person, other than
a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor or shipping
permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in this municipality.
(R.C. § 3743.65(A) - (E))  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony offense for disabling a fire suppression system, see R.C. § 3743.65
(F)
§ 91.22 PERMIT TO USE FIREWORKS.
   (A)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under R.C. §§ 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief and Police Chief, or if
there is no Fire Chief or Police Chief of the municipality, to the Fire Chief
or Police Chief of the political subdivision for which there is a contract for
fire protection or police services between political subdivisions covering the
premises on which the exhibition will take place, or if there is no such
contract, to the fire prevention officer and law enforcement officer having
jurisdiction over the premises.
   (B)   The approval required by division (A) of this section shall be
evidenced by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
law enforcement officer signing a permit for the exhibition. Any exhibitor of
fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition may obtain a copy
of the form from the state’s Fire Marshal or, if available, from the Fire
Chief, fire prevention officer, Police Chief or law enforcement officer.
   (C)   Before signing a permit and issuing it to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
law enforcement officer shall inspect the premises on which the exhibition will
take place and shall determine that, in fact, the applicant for the permit is a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks. Each applicant shall show the applicant’s
license as an exhibitor of fireworks to the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and to the Police Chief or law enforcement officer.
   (D)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or law
enforcement officer shall give his or her approval to conduct a public
fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the inspection, that the
premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow the exhibitor to
comply with the rules adopted by the state’
   (E)   If the legislative authority has prescribed a fee for the issuance of
a permit for a public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and Police Chief or law enforcement officer shall not issue a permit
until the exhibitor pays the requisite fee.
   (F)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least $1,000,000 with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and the Police Chief or law enforcement officer, conditioned for the
payment of all final judgments that may be rendered against the exhibitor on
account of injury, death or loss to person or property emanating from the
fireworks exhibitor, or proof of insurance coverage of at least $1,000,000 for
liability arising from injury, death or loss of persons or property emanating
from the fireworks exhibition. The legislative authority may require the
exhibitor to provide an indemnity bond or proof of insurance coverage in
amounts greater than those required by this division. The Fire Chief or fire
prevention officer and Police Chief or law enforcement officer shall not issue
a permit until the exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the insurance
coverage required by this division or by the legislative authority.
   (G)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or law enforcement officer shall
contain a distinct number, designate the municipality and identify the
certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief or fire prevention officer who will
be present before, during and after the exhibition, where appropriate. A copy
of each permit issued shall be forwarded by the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and the Police Chief or law enforcement officer issuing it to the
state’s Fire Marshal. A permit is not transferable or assignable.
   (H)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or law
enforcement officer shall keep a record of issued permits for fireworks
exhibitions. In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention officer, Police
Chief or law enforcement officer shall list the name of the exhibitor, his or
her license number, the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted, the
date and time of the exhibition and the number and political subdivision
designation of the permit issued to the exhibitor for the exhibition.
   (I)   The legislative authority shall require that a certified fire safety
inspector, Fire Chief or fire prevention officer be present before, during and
after the exhibition, and shall require the certified fire safety inspector,
Fire Chief or fire prevention officer to inspect the premises where the
exhibition is to take place and determine whether the exhibition is in
compliance with this chapter.
(R.C. § 3743.54) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 MANUFACTURING OR WHOLESALE SALE WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
knowingly fail to comply with the rules adopted by the state’s Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.05 and 3743.18 or the requirements of R.C. §§ 3743.06
and 3743.19.
   (B)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to maintain complete inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as
required by R.C. §§ 3743.07 and 3743.20, or to permit an inspection of these
records or the premises of a fireworks plant or the wholesaler pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08 and 3743.21.
   (C)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the state’s Fire Marshal issued pursuant to
R.C. §§ 3743.01(B)(1) and 3743.21(B)(1) within the specified period of time.
   (D)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the state’s Fire Marshal issued pursuant to
R.C. §§ 3743.08(B)(2) and 3743.21(B)(2) until the nonconformities are
eliminated, corrected or otherwise remedied or the 72-hour period specified in
those divisions has expired, whichever occurs first.
   (E)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette or cigar, or a
match, lighter, other flame-producing item, or open flame on, or shall carry a
concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a fireworks plant or on the
premises of a wholesaler of fireworks, except as smoking is authorized in
specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a manufacturer or wholesaler pursuant to
R.C. §§ 3743.06(C) or 3743.19(D).
   (F)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled substance while on
the premises of the fireworks plant or on the premises of a wholesaler of
fireworks.
(R.C. §§ 3743.60(E) - (J), 3743.61(E) - (J)) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony provisions, see R.C. §§ 3743.60(A) - (D) and 3743.61(A)- (D)
§ 91.24 PURCHASERS TO COMPLY WITH LAW; UNAUTHORIZED PURCHASES.
   (A)    No person who resides in another state and purchases fireworks in
this municipality shall obtain possession of the fireworks in this municipality
unless the person complies with R.C. § 3743.44.
   (B)   No person who resides in another state and who purchases fireworks in
this municipality shall obtain possession of fireworks in this municipality
other than from a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler, or fail, when
transporting 1.3G fireworks, to transport them directly out of the state within
72 hours after the time of their purchase. No such person shall give or sell to
any other person in this municipality fireworks that the person has acquired in
this state.
   (C)   No person who resides in this state and purchases fireworks in this
municipality shall obtain possession of the fireworks in this municipality
unless the person complies with R.C. § 3743.45.
   (D)   No person who resides in this state and who purchases fireworks in
this municipality under R.C. § 3743.45 shall obtain possession of the fireworks
in this municipality other than from a licensed manufacturer or licensed
wholesaler or fail, when transporting the fireworks, to transport them directly
out of the state within 48 hours after the time of their purchase. No such
person shall give or sell to any other person in this municipality fireworks
that the person has acquired in this state.
(R.C. § 3743.63) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25 EXHIBITION WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS FOR EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the rules
adopted by the state’s Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. § 3743.53(B) or to comply
with R.C. § 3743.53(C) and (D).
   (B)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks
exhibition unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to §
91.22 or R.C. § 3743.54, or if a permit so secured is revoked by a Fire Chief
or Police Chief pursuant to those sections.
   (C)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use at
a fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with §
91.22 and R.C. §§ 3743.54 and 3743.55.
   (D)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with the
conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or be
under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled substance
while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.
   (E)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to assist
the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the employee
is registered with the State Fire Marshal under R.C. § 3743.56.
(R.C. § 3743.64(C) - (G)) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony provisions, see R.C. § 3743.64(A), (B)
§ 91.26 UNAUTHORIZED TRANSPORTATION OR SHIPPING.
   (A)   No person shall transport fireworks in this municipality except in
accordance with the rules adopted by the state’s Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C.
§ 3743.58.
   (B)   As used in this division, FIREWORKS includes only 1.3G and 1.4G
fireworks. No person shall ship fireworks into this municipality by mail,
parcel post or common carrier unless the person possesses a valid shipping
permit issued under R.C. § 3743.40, and the fireworks are shipped directly to
the holder of a license issued under R.C. §§ 3743.03, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
   (C)   No person shall ship fireworks within this municipality by mail,
parcel post or common carrier unless the fireworks are shipped directly to the
holder of a license issued under R.C. §§ 3743.01, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
(R.C. § 3743.66) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use in
emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress signals for
marine, aviation or highway use;
   (B)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
fusees, torpedoes or other signals necessary for the safe operation of
railroads;
   (C)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in connection with
athletics as signals for ceremonial purposes;
   (D)   The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use
by, or the sale to the armed forces of the United States and the militia of
this state of pyrotechnic devices;
   (E)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic
caps containing .025 grains or less of explosive material are used, provided
that they are constructed so that a hand cannot come into contact with a cap
when it is in place for explosion, or apply to the manufacture, sale,
possession, transportation, storage or use of those caps;
   (F)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms or model rockets and model
rocket motors designed, sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable
aero models;
   (G)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
wire sparklers; and
   (H)   The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use an
explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per charge,
and that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges; provided that,
the exhibition complies with all of the following:
      (1)   No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;
      (2)   The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than 200
feet; and
      (3)   The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations of
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the United States Department of
the Treasury and the United States Department of Transportation with respect to
the storage and transport of the explosive black powder used in the exhibition.
(R.C. § 3743.80)
§ 91.28 ARREST OF OFFENDER; SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF FIREWORKS; DISTRIBUTION
OF FINES.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal, an assistant fire marshal or a certified fire safety
inspector may arrest, or may cause the arrest of, any person whom he or she
finds in the act of violating, or who he or she has reasonable cause to believe
has violated, any provision of this subchapter. Any arrest shall be made in
accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing arrests by
law enforcement officers.
   (B)   If the Fire Marshal, an assistant fire marshal or certified fire
safety inspector has probable cause to believe that fireworks are being
manufactured, sold, possessed, transported or used in violation of this
subchapter, he or she may seize the fireworks. Any seizure of fireworks shall
be made in accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing
searches and seizures by law enforcement officers. The Fire Marshal’s office or
certified fire safety inspector’s office shall impound at the site or safely
keep seized fireworks pending the time they are no longer needed as evidence. A
sample of the seized fireworks is sufficient for evidentiary purposes. The
remainder of the seized fireworks may be disposed of pursuant to an order from
a court of competent jurisdiction after notice and a hearing.
   (C)   Fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported or used in
violation of this subchapter shall be forfeited by the offender. The Fire
Marshal’s office or certified fire safety inspector’s office shall dispose of
seized fireworks pursuant to the procedures specified in R.C. § 2933.41 for the
disposal of forfeited property by law enforcement agencies, and the state’s
Fire Marshal or that office is not liable for claims for the loss of or damages
to the seized fireworks.
   (D)   This section does not affect the authority of peace officers, as
defined in R.C. § 2935.01, to make arrests for violations of this subchapter or
to seize fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported or used in
violation of this subchapter.
   (E)   Any fines imposed for a violation of this subchapter relating to the
sale, purchase, possession or discharge of fireworks shall be distributed as
set forth in R.C. § 3743.68(D).
(R.C. § 3743.68)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter for
which no other penalty is provided shall be subject to the penalty as set forth
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of
this section, whoever violates any provisions of §§
91.20 through
91.27 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of §
91.23(E), R.C. § 3743.60(I) or R.C. § 3743.61(I), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a violation of §
91.23(E) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
91.25(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any
other penalties that may be imposed on a licensed exhibitor of fireworks under
this division and unless the third sentence of this division applies, the
person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of
fireworks shall be suspended. If the violation of §
91.25(A) results in serious physical harm to persons or serious physical harm
to property, the person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an
assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be revoked.
(R.C. § 3743.99(C), (D))
CHAPTER 92: INTOXICATING LIQUOR
Section
   
92.01   Open containers prohibited
   
92.02   Prohibition against consumption in motor vehicle
§ 92.01 OPEN CONTAINERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. Means a vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) of this section, in a
state liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, on the premises
of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway,
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, E, F, F-2,
F-5, F-7, or F-8 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2 permit holder or S permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. § 4301.171.
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(3)(a) of this section:
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE. Means a concert comprised of a group of not
fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER. Means an outdoor performing arts
center that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is
attending either of the following:
            1.   An orchestral performance and the F-9 permit holder grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-
9 permit is issued;
            2.   An outdoor performing arts event or orchestral performance
that is free of charge and the F-9 permit holder annually hosts not less than
25 other events or performances that are free of charge on the permit premises.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(5) of this section, ORCHESTRAL
PERFORMANCE has the same meaning as in division (C)(3)(b) of this section.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(6)(a) of this section:
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY. An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class, or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         (b)   Division (C)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to
do either of the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (D) or (E) of this
section.
         (c)   As used in division (C)(7) of this section, “D class permit
holder” does not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         (b)   As used in division (C)(8) of this section, MARKET means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine.
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located.
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (E)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
   (F)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (F)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the
commercial quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         (b)   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         (c)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         (d)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         (b)   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         (c)   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         (d)   It is used for commercial purposes.
         (e)   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in division (G) of this section, MARKET means an
establishment that:
         (a)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         (b)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet;
         (c)   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (H)   (1)   As used in this section, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4303.185.
      (2)   An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported under
R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for the
purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such a
manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (I)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A)) (Ord. 82-62, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 PROHIBITION AGAINST CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in §
92.01(D).
(R.C. § 4301.64)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense and the offense occurred while the offender was the
operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle, the court, in addition to any
other penalties it imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender’s
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license for a period of
six months. In lieu of suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit,
probationary driver’s license, or driver’s license, the court instead may
require the offender to perform community service for a number of hours
determined by the court. If the offender is 15 years and six months of age or
older and has not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary
driver’s license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a
license or permit for a period of six months. If the offender has not attained
the age of 15 years and six months, the offender shall
not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit until the offender
attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B)) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: VILLAGE PARKS
Section
   
93.01   Hours of operation
   
93.02   Parks and Recreation Director
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parks and Recreation Board, see Charter §
10.02
§ 93.01 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person shall be within any part of any village park between the hours of
12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. unless specifically authorized in advance by the
Board of Park Trustees of the village, or the Board’s authorized
representative.
(Ord. 82-68, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 PARKS AND RECREATION DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The village shall hire the Parks and Recreation Director and create
this position to fulfill the role as deemed necessary by the Park Board and the
Village Charter.
   (B)   This is necessary in order to ensure the consistent development,
maintenance and operation of parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities and
programs.
(Res. 97-10, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates this section shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. 82-68, passed 11-15-1982)
CHAPTER 94: VILLAGE CEMETERY
Section
   
94.01   Rates for burial spaces
§ 94.01 RATES FOR BURIAL SPACES.
   The rates to be charged for cemetery or burial spaces shall be as follows:
   (A)   Burial spaces:
 
                Sections A, B, C, D, E, G (Non- Sections F, H (Ribboned Area)
                 Ribboned Area)
Village resident $300/single grave               $400/single grave
Nonresident      $475/single grave               $650/single grave
 
   (B)   Fee for deed transfer: $25;
   (C)   Fee for grave opening: $300;
   (D)   Sunday, Saturday or holiday grave opening: $450; and
   (E)   Fee for grave opening for cremation remains: $175.
(Ord. 90-67, passed 12-17-1990; Am. Ord. 99-24, passed 4-19-1999; Am. Ord. 05-
35, passed 7-18-2005; Am. Ord. 09-23, passed 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Dwelling address numbers
   
95.02   Cutting of public streets prohibited
   
95.03   Rates for street and terrace openings; mowing vacant lots
   
95.04   Assessment policy for newly constructed streets
Alleyway Policy
   
95.15   Maintenance of alleyways
   
95.16   Paved alleys
   
95.17   Barricading of alleys
Sidewalks
   
95.30   Sidewalk policy established
   
95.31   Standards
   
95.32   Repair or replacement prior to schedule
   
95.33   Installation where none exist
Snow Removal and Winter Parking Procedures
   
95.45   Snow removal policy; street priority
   
95.46   Winter parking restrictions
   
95.47   Mailbox location
   
95.48   Damage by snow removal crews
   
95.49   Duty to keep sidewalks in repair
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DWELLING ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, DWELLING shall be defined as any
building or portion thereof which is designated for or used for residential
purposes.
   (B)   All dwellings shall contain either attached to the building or on the
premises numbers or letters designating the address of that dwelling.
   (C)   The minimum height of these numbers or letters shall be two and one-
half inches.
   (D)   The numbers or letters shall be kept free of obstruction so that they
are readable from the street on which the dwelling fronts.
   (E)   The Chief of Police shall notify, in writing, by regular U.S. mail or
by personal service the record owner of any dwelling which does not contain a
street address or which street address is not readable from the street or is
not the minimum height, that the proper numbers or letters must be affixed or
the obstruction removed within 30 days of the notice.
(Ord. 84-32, passed 5-21-1984)
§ 95.02 CUTTING OF PUBLIC STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, corporation, public utility or entity shall cut the surface
of any public street or alley within the village without obtaining written
permission from the Village Administrator.
(Ord. 78-64, passed 12-4-1978) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 RATES FOR STREET AND TERRACE OPENINGS; MOWING VACANT LOTS.
   (A)   A fee of$120 shall be charged for a permit to cut into any street
within the village.
   (B)   A fee of$15 shall be charged for a permit to cut into any terrace
within the village.
   (C)   The rates to be charged for mowing vacant lots shall be time plus
materials based on the village’s current equipment rental and labor plus
benefits rates. The rental rates shall include all equipment used to transport
mowing equipment and the mowing equipment.
(Ord. 79-30, passed 5-7-1979; Am. Ord. 90-68, passed 12-17-1990; Am. Ord. 08-
34, passed 7-7-2008)
§ 95.04 ASSESSMENT POLICY FOR NEWLY CONSTRUCTED STREETS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a policy whereby there shall be assessed
against any undeveloped parcel of real estate which abuts a newly constructed
street $50 per each foot which fronts along the street.
   (B)   The assessment shall be for the initial construction cost for the
street, catch basins and other necessary appurtenances.
   (C)   The assessment shall be levied upon each undeveloped parcel upon which
a structure is to be erected.
   (D)   Any corner lot shall be assessed only if the short side of the lot
abuts the new street.
   (E)   The assessment shall be payable to the Director of Finance at the time
the owner makes application for a building certificate.
   (F)   Interpretation and administration of the foregoing policy shall be
consistent with the principle that all property hereafter developed shall bear
a portion of the capital cost of the construction of new streets which is
equitable in relationship to the portion of the cost heretofore borne by
subdividers of property within the village for new streets constructed within
or along new subdivisions and, accordingly, application of this principle
demands that from time to time the $50 per front foot assessment shall be
reviewed by the Council and, if justified, increased or decreased to reflect
the then current costs.
(Ord. 81-23, passed 4-6-1981)
ALLEYWAY POLICY
§ 95.15 MAINTENANCE OF ALLEYWAYS.
   (A)   Undeveloped or unimproved alleys. Determinations on whether or not an
alley is an improved alley shall be at the discretion of the Village
Administrator and Street Superintendent. Before any maintenance activities will
be assumed by the village an alleyway must be constructed as follows.
      (1)   The alley shall be excavated to such a depth as to remove any sod,
organic materials and the like and the final surfaces shall blend into the
surrounding surfaces.
      (2)   The pavement surfaces shall have a minimum width of ten feet and
shall consist either of six inches of compacted ODOT 411 (Stabilized Crushed
Aggregate) or four inches of compacted ODOT 404 (Asphalt Concrete).
      (3)   When asphalt is used, all construction joints shall be sealed with
liquid asphalt.
   (B)   Routine maintenance. Standard maintenance activities shall include
snow removal and grading in both the spring and autumn only on improved alleys.
   (C)   Improved alleys. Improved alleys are those which are surfaced with
asphalt concrete, concrete or stone.
(Ord. 85-14, passed 4-15-1985; Am. Ord. 95-48, passed 7-17-1995)
§ 95.16 PAVED ALLEYS.
   (A)   General. The village will pave only those unimproved and improved
alleyways adjacent to commercially-owned property. Maintenance and resurfacing
will be scheduled as needed.
   (B)   Petitions for paving (residential/industrial). The village will
consider petitions for any unimproved or improved alleyways when 100% of the
adjacent property owners are in agreement to be specially assessed for the
improvements. Once an alleyway is improved in such a way the village will
continue all routine and future maintenance activities. All existing improved,
but not paved, and unimproved alleys upgraded to a paved surface shall be
constructed with the following standards.
      (1)   A minimum width shall be ten feet, and if the existing alley is
less than ten feet, the stone base shall be extended as necessary with six
inches of compacted ODOT 411 (Stabilized Crushed Aggregate).
      (2)   The existing stone base shall be graded and compacted to a smooth
surface.
      (3)   The asphalt surface shall consist of two inches of compacted ODOT
404 (Asphalt Concrete). All construction joints shall be sealed with liquid
asphalt.
      (4)   The edges of pavement surface shall be blended into the surrounding
surfaces with compacted ODOT 411 (Stabilized Crushed Aggregate) to a minimum
width of one foot.
   (C)   Petitions for paying (commercial). The village will agree to pave
alleyways where at least 50% of the lineal footage of the alleyway’s entire
length is commercially owned property and petitions are presented with at least
75% of property owners, also based on lineal footage. The alleys will be
scheduled for paving at the next available time when funds can be duly
appropriated and the work scheduled.
(Ord. 95-48, passed 7-17-1995)
§ 95.17 BARRICADING OF ALLEYS.
   The village realizes that head traffic concerns often can convince adjacent
property owners to close off an alleyway’s access. Such a closure will occur
only if 100% of the adjacent property owners agree to see the alleyway
barricaded off. If the Village Council is presented with such a petition, the
Council will consider to accept and proceed with the requested action. Safety
and community traffic concerns will be considered in any decision.
(Ord. 95-48, passed 7-17-1995)
SIDEWALKS
§ 95.30 SIDEWALK POLICY ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A village sidewalk policy is hereby established.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the Village Engineer, Village
Administrator and Street Superintendent to present to Council, on an annual
basis, and prior to final approval of the budget for the following year, a
recommendation on the scope and location of sidewalk repairs and replacement
for the next fiscal year.
   (C)   Council shall make the final decision on location and total
expenditures for sidewalk repair and replacement.
(Ord. 00-32, passed 7-10-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Construction and repair; sidewalks generally, see R.C. §§ 729.05 et seq.
   Resolution necessary, see R.C. § 729.02
§ 95.31 STANDARDS.
   There shall be objective and measurable criteria established by the Village
Engineer to be used in evaluating sidewalks for replacement or repair. Those
standards shall be kept on file and be available to the public at the offices
of the Village Engineer and Village Administrator.
(Ord. 00-32, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 95.32 REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT PRIOR TO SCHEDULE.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to establish an ongoing and orderly
program for the repair and replacement of the village sidewalks. Should any
property owner request to have a sidewalk replaced or repaired prior to the
schedule established by Council, that owner shall have the option to have the
sidewalk repaired or replaced according to village specifications, at the
owner’s expense.
(Ord. 00-32, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 95.33 INSTALLATION WHERE NONE EXIST.
   The installation of sidewalks where none exist shall be at the sole
discretion of Village Council, to be decided by majority vote on a case-by-case
basis.
(Ord. 00-32, passed 7-10-2000)
SNOW REMOVAL AND WINTER PARKING PROCEDURES
§ 95.45 SNOW REMOVAL POLICY; STREET PRIORITY.
   (A)   Policy. Snow removal of streets within the village corporation limits
will occur according to a policy developed and maintained by the Street
Department.
   (B)   Street priority. Salting of roadways will occur in the following
locations.
      (1)   All primary roads will be salted when conditions warrant use of
salt to reduce dangerous road conditions.
      (2)   Intersections of secondary roads shall be salted when conditions
warrant use of salt to reduce dangerous road conditions.
      (3)   All roads will be salted when weather conditions such as ice storms
cause roadways to become impassable.
(Ord. 97-69, passed 10-20-1997)
§ 95.46 WINTER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. Winter parking restrictions shall be imposed to improve the
abilities of the village Street Department to remove snow from all streets in
the village corporation limits while at the same time reducing the risk of
property damage to village- owned equipment or private property.
   (B)   Restrictions. The following parking restrictions shall be enforced
between November 1 and April 1.
      (1)   There shall be no parking on village streets between the hours of
11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. during periods when snowing, or when Street Department
employees are removing snow that has recently accumulated.
      (2)   Enforcement is to be carried out by the Police Department.
      (3)   For the purpose of this subchapter, VILLAGE STREETS shall be
defined as the paved surface of roadways, alleys, and public parking lots.
   (C)   Exemptions for certain locations. Exemptions shall be made for
locations where off- street private parking is not available, provided vehicles
are moved when snow removal requires it. Owners of vehicles requesting
exemption must annually apply at the Police Department for exemption. Owners
requesting an exemption must provide the make, model, color, and registration
number of each vehicle that is to be exempt, along with a telephone number to
be called when vehicles must be moved. Locations that may be considered for
exemption include:
      (1)   All public parking lots; and
      (2)   On-street parking where no off-street parking is available.
   (D)   Tickets and fines. All vehicles in violation of this section shall be
fined $25. Authority to enforce the winter parking restrictions is established
by this section and the authority established in §§
76.03 and
76.04 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 97-69, passed 10-20-1997; Am. Ord. 10-74, passed 12-6-2010)  Penalty, see
§
95.99
Cross-reference:
   Other parking regulations, see
Chapter 76
§ 95.47 MAILBOX LOCATION.
   (A) The village assumes no responsibility for replacement costs of mailboxes
hit by the plow of a village-owned snowplow during snow removal.
   (B)   Residents should place mailboxes to the specifications as provided by
the United States Postal Service of the village. Due to the fact that snow
removal may not always be able to be accommodated back to the face of the curb
because of encroaching mailboxes, some postal delivery problems may well
result.
(Ord. 97-69, passed 10-20-1997; Am. Ord. 97-86, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 95.48 DAMAGE BY SNOW REMOVAL CREWS.
   (A)   All ruts, plow drags or other damage caused by village-owned snowplows
shall be repaired by the Street Department at the end of the snow removal
season.
   (B)   All damaged plants, bushes, flowers or other foliage installed in the
village right-of-way by the adjacent resident will not be replaced at village
expense.
(Ord. 97-69, passed 10-20-1997)
§ 95.49 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN REPAIR.
   (A)   Owners or occupants of abutting lands shall keep the sidewalk in
repair and free from snow, ice, or any nuisance. Owners or occupants shall have
48 hours after cessation of snow or ice storm that caused accumulation, to
remove same from the sidewalks abutting their lands.
   (B)   Enforcement is to be carried out by the Police Department.
(Ord. 2016-32, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter for which
no other penalty is provided shall be subject to the penalty as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 96: TREES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Village Tree Board
   
96.03   Street tree species to be planted
   
96.04   Spacing, distances
   
96.05   Utilities
   
96.06   Public tree care
   
96.07   Tree topping; removal of stumps
   
96.08   Pruning, corner clearance
   
96.09   Trees in new subdivisions
   
96.10   Abuse or mutilation of trees
   
96.11   Interference with Village Tree Board
Cross-reference:
   Tree Board, see Charter §
10.04
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the village, or to which
the public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land lying
between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways within
the village.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 96.02 VILLAGE TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Creation, establishment and term of office. Pursuant to Charter §
10.04, there is hereby created and established the Village Tree Board. The
appointment and terms of office for members of the Tree Board shall be as
provided in Charter §
10.04. In addition, the Board shall have the right to call in consultants as
they see fit.
   (B)   Compensation. Members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
Commission to study, investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually,
and administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, replanting,
removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other
public areas. The plan will be presented annually to the Village Council and,
upon its acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive
village tree plan. The Commission, when requested by the Village Council shall
consider, investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon any special
matter of question coming within the scope of its work.
   (D)   Operation. The Chairperson of the Commission shall be the Chairperson
of the Village Council Building and Grounds Committee. The Commission shall
make its own rules and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A
majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (E)   Review by Village Council. The Village Council shall have the right to
review the conduct, acts and decisions of the Village Tree Board. Any person
may appeal from any ruling or order of the Village Commission to the Village
Council who may bear the matter and make a final decision.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 96.03 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The list attached to Ord. 85-7 constitutes the official street tree species
for the village. No species other than those included in the list may be
planted as street trees without written permission of the village’s Tree Board.
This list shall be reviewed and updated annually by the Tree Board.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 96.04 SPACING, DISTANCES.
   (A)   Spacing. The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the
three species size classes referred to in the list referenced in § 96.03, and
no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small trees, 25
feet; medium trees, 35 feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except in special
plantings designed or approved by the Tree Board.
   (B)   Distance from curb and sidewalk. The distance trees may be planted
from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three
species size classes referred to in the list referred to in §
96.03 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or
sidewalk than the following: small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet;
and large trees, four feet.
   (C)   Distance from street corners and fireplugs. No street tree shall be
planted closer than 35 feet of any street corner, measured from the point of
nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street tree shall be planted closer
than ten feet to any fireplug.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 2-4-1985; Ord. 2019-64, passed 11- 18-2019)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.05 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species referred to as small trees in the
list referred to in §
96.03 may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line, distribution line or other utility.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 2-4-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.06 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of the public grounds. The
village’s Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or
part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature
is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other
public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other
pest. This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent
property owners providing that the selection and location of the trees is in
accordance with §§
96.03 through
96.05 of this chapter.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 96.07 TREE TOPPING; REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or
village department to top any street tree, park trees or other tree on public
property. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs
larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree
so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or
other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be
exempted from this section at the determination of the village’s Tree Board.
   (B)   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface
of the ground to facilitate landscaping.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 2-4-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.08 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
village shall prune the branches so that the branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk. The owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous
trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the public. The
village shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property
when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a
street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic-control device or
sign.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 2-4-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.09 TREES IN NEW SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Tree Board shall approve the tree plan for any new subdivisions.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 96.10 ABUSE OR MUTILATION OF TREES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter to abuse, destroy or mutilate any
tree, shrub or plant in a public tree lawn or any other public place or to
attach or place any rope or wire (other than one used to support a young or
broken tree), sign, poster, handbill or other thing to or on any tree growing
in a public place, or to allow any gaseous, liquid or solid substance which is
harmful to the trees to come in contact with their roots or leaves. Any person
violating this section shall be prosecuted under the provisions of R.C. §
901.51.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 2-4-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.11 INTERFERENCE WITH VILLAGE TREE BOARD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere
with the village’s Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and
about the planting, cultivation, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any
street trees as authorized in this chapter.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the prevention,
delay or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally protected speech
only.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 2-4-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 97: NOISE
Section
   
97.01   Railroad noise
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 RAILROAD NOISE.
   (A)   The maximum sound pressure levels for railroad operations shall not
exceed the following as measured in accordance with the criteria set forth in
division (B) hereof:
                                         73 decibels at idle
Locomotives on or prior to 12-31-1979    93 decibels at all other throttle
                                         settings
                                         96 decibels moving at any speed
                                         70 decibels at idle
Locomotives completed other after 12-31- 87 decibels at all other throttle
1979                                     settings
                                         90 decibels moving at any speed
Railcars                                 88 decibels up to and including 45 mph
                                         93 decibels at greater than 45 mph
 
   (B)   Maximum sound pressure level for railroad operations shall be measured
as follows.
      (1)   For all locomotives operating under stationary conditions,
measurement shall be by fast meter response at 100 feet from the geometric
center of the locomotive and perpendicular to the centerline of the track.
      (2)   For all locomotives operating under moving conditions, measurement
shall be by fast meter response at 100 feet from the centerline of any track
that exhibits less than a two-degree curve.
      (3)   For all railcar operations, measurement shall be by fast meter
response at 100 feet from the centerline of any section of track that is free
of special trackwork, bridges and trestles, and that exhibits less than a two-
degree curve.
   (C)   Measurement of maximum sound levels for all locomotive and railcar
operations shall be taken in accordance with standards set forth by the
Environmental Protection Agency in 40 C.F.R. part 201.
(Ord. 00-70, passed 10-23-2000) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree for each offense. Each day such violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Where the act charged to be a
violation or the act that is causation of the violation is committed, in whole
or in part, by a person acting as an employee, representative, agent or officer
of the owner or operator of the activity, the operation or maintenance of which
is the causation of the violation, then and in that event, the employee,
representative, agent or officer, as well as the owner or operator, shall be
held to have violated this chapter.
(Ord. 00-70, passed 10-23-2000)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
113.   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Application of chapter
   
110.02   Licenses required to engage in certain businesses; exceptions
   
110.03   Application for license
   
110.04   Issuance of license
   
110.05   Date and duration of license
   
110.06   License not transferable
   
110.07   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.08   Revocation or suspension
   
110.09   Appeal and review
   
110.10   Exemption from license requirement
 
   
110.99   General penalty for Title XI
Statutory reference:
   Municipal licensing power, exceptions, see R.C. Ch. 715: General Powers
   Revocation of licenses for conviction of certain fraud and theft offenses,
see R.C. § 2961.03
§ 110.01 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall control the licensing of the various
trades, businesses and professions regulated by this Business Regulation Code,
except to the extent that such licensing is regulated in subsequent chapters in
this Business Regulation Code.
(Ord. 2021-39, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 110.02 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN BUSINESSES; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses or professions for
which licenses are required by this chapter or by any other ordinance of the
municipality or provision of this code without first applying for and obtaining
a license from the Clerk or other duly authorized issuing authority.
(Ord. 2021-39, passed 5-17-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal licensing power, exceptions, see R.C. §§ 715.27, 715.48 and 715.60
through 715.68
§ 110.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Clerk or other authorized official, in writing,
upon forms to be furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The applicant's full name, address and telephone number and the
full name of each officer, partner or business associate, if applicable;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for the preceding five years;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   If for a vendor, a description of the merchandise, goods or
services to be sold;
      (7)   If a motor vehicle is to be used, a full description of such motor
vehicle, including the make, model, year, color, license number and vehicle
registration (VIN) number of the vehicle; and
      (8)   Such other information concerning the applicant and his or her
business as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the
license desired.
   (B)   Any change in the information required by division (A) of this section
must be reported to the Clerk or other authorized official within 14 days of
the change.
   (C)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing on the basis of the original application, unless otherwise provided.
However, if a request for renewal is not submitted to the Clerk or other
authorized official within 21 days after the date of expiration for the
preceding license, the applicant must fill out an original application.
   (D)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
(Ord. 2021-39, passed 5-17-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of the application for a license, accompanied by the proper
fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the Clerk,
with the written approval of the Mayor or other chief administrative officer,
shall deposit the fee in the general fund of the municipality and issue to the
applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk and Mayor or other
chief administrative officer. If, for any reason, the license is not issued,
this fee less $5 to cover administrative expenses of considering the
application shall be returned to the applicant.
(Ord. 2021-39, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 110.05 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein specified
and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31 of the year
issued. However, at any time after December 1, licenses may be issued for the
next calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full annual fee will be
required of licensees irrespective of the date of issuance of the license.
(Ord. 2021-39, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 110.06 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business and, unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
(Ord. 2021-39, passed 5-17-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the premises the license certificate. Other licensees
shall carry their licenses at all times and, whenever requested by any officer
or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
(Ord. 2021-39, passed 5-17-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be suspended or revoked by the Mayor or other chief
administrative officer at any time for the following reasons:
      (1)   For conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the
time of issuance, would have been valid grounds for its denial;
      (2)   For any misrepresentation of a material fact in the application
discovered after issuance of the license;
      (3)   For any misrepresentation or materially false statement made in the
course of carrying on the trade, business or profession;
      (4)   For violation of any provision of this chapter or other federal,
state or municipal law or ordinance relating to the operation of the business
or enterprise for which the license has been issued; or
      (5)   Upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state or municipal
law or ordinance involving the creation of a nuisance, a breach of the peace,
interference with the rights of property owners, or any other offense
constituting a threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
   (B)   The suspension or revocation shall become effective upon notice served
upon the licensee. The notice shall contain a written summary of the reasons
for the suspension or revocation and a statement concerning the right to appeal
the decision. The notice shall be delivered by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the address given on the licensee's application.
(Ord. 2021-39, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 110.09 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his or her license
has been suspended or revoked, the applicant or licensee shall within ten
business days have the right to appeal to the legislative authority from the
denial, suspension or revocation. Notice of appeal shall be filed, in writing,
with the Clerk or other authorized official who shall fix the time and place
for a hearing which shall be held not later than 21 days thereafter. The Clerk
shall notify the Mayor and all members of the legislative authority of the time
and place of the hearing not less than 24 hours in advance thereof. Three
members of the legislative authority shall constitute a quorum to hear the
appeal. The appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel. If,
after hearing, a majority of the members of the legislative authority present
at the meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the license shall be issued
or fully reinstated as the case may be; otherwise, the order appealed from
shall become final.
(Ord. 2021-39, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 110.10 EXEMPTION FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   Village Council exempts owners, agents or consignees, invited to engage in
the temporary business of selling goods during an Archbold sponsored event from
acquiring a license.
(Ord. 2019-32, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 110.99 GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XI.
    Whoever violates any provision of this title, for which another penalty is
not already provided, shall be fined not more than $500, imprisoned for not
more than six months, or both.
(Ord. 2021-39, passed 5-17-2021)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Registration required
   
111.03   Furnishing of information
   
111.04   Appeal
   
111.05   Revocation of license
   
111.06   Restrictions and enforcement
   
111.07   Orders to be in duplicate
   
111.08   Trespassing in violation of posted signs
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Municipal power to regulate, see R.C. §§ 715.61, 715.63, and 715.64
   Revocation of licenses for conviction of certain fraud and theft offenses,
see R.C. § 2961.03
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLING or SOLICITING, unless expressly provided for otherwise, means
traveling from residence to residence within Archbold, without having a
previous appointment to visit the residence or residences visited for the
purpose of exposing or offering for inspection or sale, goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs or any other property, tangible or intangible, of any
nature whatsoever, or services, or for the purpose of taking or attempting to
take orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, or other
property, tangible or intangible, of any nature whatsoever for future delivery,
or of services to be furnished or performed in the future.
   PEDDLING or SOLICITING does not mean the soliciting of funds or other
property for charitable purposes. The solicitation by a newspaper carrier of
customers for a newspaper which he/she regularly delivers shall not be included
in this definition, nor shall solicitation for public and parochial schools,
and political purposes be included in this definition.
   PEDDLER or SOLICITOR means any person who engages in peddling or soliciting.
(Ord. 2021-35, passed 4-5-2021)
§ 111.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall peddle or solicit within Archbold without first registering
with the Police Department. A separate registration must be made for every
peddler, solicitor, agent or employee soliciting within Archbold. A non-
refundable fee of $30 is charged for each license for all persons soliciting.
Each registration permit shall be specific to the individual registering, and
shall be non-transferrable. Each permit shall expire 90 days from the date of
issuance.
(Ord. 2021-35, passed 4-5-2021) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 FURNISHING OF INFORMATION.
   Each peddler or solicitor shall, prior to the time of commencement of
solicitation furnish the Division of Police with the following information on
forms provided by Archbold:
   (A)   Name and date of birth of applicant;
   (B)   Complete permanent and local address of applicant, phone number and
email address;
   (C)   Name and address of the person, firm, corporation or association for
whom the solicitation is being made together with credentials establishing the
exact relationship;
   (D)   A description of the nature of the business and the goods, services or
wares to be sold or otherwise sufficient to identify the subject matter of the
soliciting in which the applicant will engage;
   (E)   The proposed dates and times of the solicitation and the routes to be
followed in conducting same;
   (F)   The make, model, year, color and license plate number of automobiles
used by the applicant during the period of solicitation within Archbold and the
number on the applicant's driver's license and state of issuance;
   (G)   The applicant's social security number, and a recent 2" x 2"
photograph of the applicant showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in
a clear and distinguishing manner;
   (H)   Evidence will be provided by the applicant as to their good character
and business responsibility that will enable an investigator to evaluate the
applicant. Such evidence may include but not be limited to: Proof of liability
insurance; current background checks; both state and federal issued background
checks. The Police Department may conduct background checks to verify.
   (I)   Applications shall be made at least three business days before the
license is issued to allow time to complete an evaluation by the Police
Department.
   (J)   Such information shall only be valid for six months from the date of
its furnishing to the Division of Police.
(Ord. 2021-35, passed 4-5-2021)
§ 111.04 APPEAL.
   Any person who has applied for a license or registration certificate in
accordance with this chapter and to whom the Police Chief or his or her
designee has, after an investigation, denied a license or registration
certificate, may appeal the decision to the Village Administrator. Such appeal
shall be considered by the Village Administrator within five days, and the
Village Administrator's decision shall be final.
(Ord. 2021-35, passed 4-5-2021)
§ 111.05 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be
revoked by the Village Administrator upon violation by the peddler or solicitor
of:
   (A)   Any provision of this chapter;
   (B)   Any applicable ordinance of the village or any state or federal
criminal law;
   (C)   The licensee has made one or more material misrepresentations of fact
within the application;
   (D)   The licensee has altered the information set forth on the face of the
license or has used the license with knowledge that it has been altered;
   (E)   The licensee has permitted another to use the license;
   (F)   The licensee has entered upon the premises of a residence for the
purpose of proposing a commercial transaction at hours other than those
permitted by the express terms of the license;
   (G)   The licensee has failed or refused to exhibit the license to a law
enforcement officer or at any time when requested while license is engaged in
door-to-door solicitations.
   (H)   In the case of revocation, no fee will be refunded.
(Ord. 2021-35, passed 4-5-2021)
§ 111.06 RESTRICTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Every person to whom this chapter applies shall be governed by the following
rules and regulations:
   (A)   All circulars, samples or other matter shall be handed to an occupant
of the property or left in a secure place on the premises.
   (B)   No person subject to the provisions of this chapter shall peddle or
solicit, except between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. Eastern Standard
Time or Eastern Daylight Time, or on Sundays and/or federal holidays.
   (C)   No peddler or solicitor shall enter or attempt to enter the house,
apartment, or other dwelling unit of any resident in Archbold without an
express invitation from the occupant of the house or apartment.
   (D)   No person subject to the terms of this chapter shall make any false,
fraudulent, misleading or deceptive statement during the course of that
person's soliciting activity within Archbold.
   (E)   No person subject to this chapter shall make any solicitation where
peddlers or solicitors are notified by a sign that soliciting is prohibited as
provided in §
111.06.
   (F)   No peddler or solicitor shall engage in or transact any type of
business or solicitation other than that specified on the registration form.
   (G)   No peddler, solicitor and canvasser shall solicit or peddle in
roadways or public rights-of-ways.
   (H)   Peddler, solicitors and canvasser are required to display their
license issued by the Police Department in a conspicuous manner; either
attached to their person, or carried with them. A peddler or solicitor shall
produce the license for inspection whenever requested by an officer or citizen.
   (I)   No person shall sell or offer for sale goods outdoors (open-air), on
or upon occupied or unoccupied private property, without the proper license and
without submitting, with the application for a license, a written and notarized
statement of authorization from the owner of the property where the sales are
to take place and only if such activity is not in violation with any provision
of the Village Codified Ordinances.
   (J)   It shall be the duty of any Archbold police officer to require any
person seen soliciting or canvassing to be duly licensed and to enforce the
provisions of this chapter against any person found to be violating the same.
(Ord. 2021-35, passed 4-5-2021) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 ORDERS TO BE IN DUPLICATE.
   All orders taken by solicitors wherein payment or deposit is made in advance
of delivery shall be in writing in duplicate, stating the terms thereof, and
the amount in advance. One copy shall be given to the purchaser at the time of
the solicitation.
(Ord. 2021-35, passed 4-5-2021) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 TRESPASSING IN VIOLATION OF POSTED SIGNS.
   No person while engaged in any for-profit solicitation, shall knock at the
door or ring the bell of any home, apartment, apartment building or other
dwelling unit in Archbold upon which is displayed at the entrance a notice that
reads "No Peddlers or Solicitors Allowed", or which otherwise clearly purports
to prohibit peddlers or solicitors on the premises, unless such peddler or
solicitor is, or has been invited upon the premises by the owners, lessee or
occupant thereof.
(Ord. 2021-35, passed 4-5-2021) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and fined $100 for each offense. Each individual solicitation shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   If an offender persists in a violation of this chapter after receiving
a warning or request from a police officer to desist, a violation shall be
punishable by up to $1,000 and/or 30 hours of community service for each such
violation.
(Ord. 2021-35, passed 4-5-2021)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
Cable Television Customer Service Standards
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.011   Video service provider fee
   
112.02   Telephone and office availability
   
112.03   Handicapped access
   
112.04   Employee identification
   
112.05   Installations
   
112.06   Service interruptions and other service problems
   
112.07   Installation and service appointments
   
112.08   Notices and customer communications
   
112.09   Bills
   
112.10   Disconnection/denial of service
   
112.11   Deposits, refunds and credits
   
112.12   Rates, fees and charges
   
112.13   Parental control options
   
112.14   Periodic subscriber survey
   
112.15   Enforcement
   
112.16   Cable officer or cable commission
   
112.17   Rights reserved by the franchise authority
CABLE TELEVISION CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of these requirements, the following words and their
derivations have the meanings defined below. Words not defined are given their
meaning in § 602 of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 522, and, if none, their common
and ordinary meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the
present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the
singular number, and words in the singular number include the plural number.
The words “must” or “shall” are mandatory and the word “may” is permissive.
   CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended by the
Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, and the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., and such legislation
as may amend or supersede it.
   CABLE SERVICE. The one-way transmission of video or other programming
service to subscribers together with any subscriber interaction provided in
connection with the service.
   CABLE SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission paths
and associated signal generation, reception and control equipment that is
designed to provide cable service that includes video programming and that is
provided to multiple subscribers within the franchise area. The term does not
include:
      (1)   A facility that services only to retransmit the television signals
of one or more television broadcast stations;
      (2)   A facility that serves only subscribers in one or more multiple
unit dwellings under common ownership, control or management, unless the
facility uses any public right-of-way;
      (3)   A facility of a common carrier that is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of Title 11 of the Communications Act of 1934, 47
U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., except that such facility will be considered a cable
system to the extent it is used in the transmission of video programming
directly to subscribers; or
      (4)   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility systems.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FRANCHISE. The right to construct, maintain and operate a cable system over,
on or under streets, roads and all other public ways, easements and rights-of-
way within all or specified areas of the franchise area. The term does not
include any license or permit that may be required by other laws, ordinances or
regulations of the franchise area or the privilege of transacting and carrying
on a business within the franchise area or for disturbing the surface of any
street or public thoroughfare.
   FRANCHISE AUTHORITY. The Village of Archbold, Ohio.
   FRANCHISEE. The holder of any valid franchise to provide cable service
within the franchise area.
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. Those service conditions which are within the
control of the franchisee. Those conditions which are not within the control of
the franchisee include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil
disturbances, power outages and severe or unusual weather conditions. Those
conditions which are ordinarily within the control of the franchisee include,
but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view events, rate
increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods, and maintenance or upgrade
of the cable system.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint venture
or organization of any kind and the lawful trustee, successor, assignee,
transferee or personal representative thereof.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The surface, the air space above the surface, and the area
below the surface of any public street, highway, lane, path, alley, sidewalk,
boulevard, drive, bridge, tunnel, park, parkways, waterways or other public
right-of-way including public utility easements or rights-of-way and any
temporary or permanent fixtures or improvements located thereon now or
hereafter held by the franchise authority that shall entitle the franchisee to
the use thereof for the purpose of installing and maintaining a cable system.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who legally receives any one or more of the services
provided by the cable system.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.011 VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE.
   All video service providers who are presently or who commence to provide
video services to any person in the Village of Archbold, Ohio are hereby
assessed a 5% video service provider fee, pursuant to R.C. § 1332.32, based
upon the video service provider's gross revenues, which shall include
advertising revenues as provided by R.C. § 1332.32(B)(2)(g), unless such video
service provider remits a franchise or other fee to the Village pursuant to
agreement or other applicable law or ordinance.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 112.02 TELEPHONE AND OFFICE AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   The franchisee shall provide subscribers a toll-free or local
telephone number for installation, service and complaint calls.
   (B)   The franchisee must have telephone lines, either adequately staffed or
with answering capability, providing at least emergency referral information,
and that are operational 24 hours a day, every day, including weekends and
holidays.
   (C)   Under normal operating conditions and when phones are staffed,
subscriber calls to the franchisee will be answered on average within 30
seconds 90% of the time measured on a quarterly basis; and subscribers will
receive a busy signal 3% of the time or less. Failure to meet these standards,
within a reasonable time, after notice of failure to do so, shall subject the
franchisee to appropriate enforcement actions.
   (D)   (1)   On weekdays, during normal business hours, the franchisee must
have its office(s) located within the 35 miles of at least 90% of the total
subscriber base open and adequately staffed to respond to subscribers in at
least two ways:
         (a)   To accept payments; and
         (b)   To exchange or accept return of franchise-provided equipment.
      (2)   At all times, the franchisee must have local or toll free telephone
lines available and adequately staffed to respond to subscribers in at least
two ways:
         (a)   To schedule and conduct technical calls; and
         (b)   To respond to subscriber inquiries.
   (E)   On Saturdays, the franchisee must have telephone lines and adequate
staff available: at the option of the franchisee either at its office or in the
field to schedule and perform emergency service or emergency technician calls;
and to respond to subscriber inquiries which may be answered by advising the
caller when and to what number to call back during weekdays.
   (F)   The franchise shall notify the franchise authority as promptly as
possible, by any available means including accessing telephones away from the
franchisee’s premises, whenever there is a total interruption of telephone
service which affects the franchisee’s cable system. The franchise authority
will provide the required telephone number to the franchisee on an annual basis
by January 1, or as needed.
   (G)   The franchisee shall have an office accessible to the franchise area
at which it shall be able to respond to subscribers a minimum of 40 hours a
week, during normal operating conditions.
   (H)   The franchisee will provide either an office, an agent or a “drop box”
within 15 miles of 90% of the total subscriber base to receive payments.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.03 HANDICAPPED ACCESS.
   The franchisee shall comply with all rules and regulations applicable to its
operations under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.04 EMPLOYEE IDENTIFICATION.
   All personnel of the franchisee contacting subscribers or potential
subscribers outside the office of the franchisee must be clearly identified as
associated with the franchisee.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.05 INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Standard installation charges will apply to those installations that
are within serviceable addresses and consist of an aerial or underground drop
of no more than 125 feet in length running from the nearest feeder cable of the
cable system to the terminal of the subscriber, using exposed wiring inside the
subscriber’s premises. Installations requiring materials or procedures that
exceed those minimum lengths, or in the case of any underground drop that
involves unforeseen or extraordinary conditions, could be subject to additional
charges, as determined by the franchisee; provided that, such additional
charges shall be fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory, to the extent
applicable law and regulations provide.
   (B)   All installations will be in accordance with FCC rules, including, but
not limited to, appropriate grounding, adjustment of the television set in
order to receive cable service, and the provision of required consumer
information and literature to instruct the subscriber in the use of the cable
services.
   (C)   Under normal operating conditions, if the franchisee cannot perform
standard installations as defined above within seven business days of request
by a subscriber (provided that the schedule or preferences of the person
requesting installation have not been responsible for the delay), the
subscriber may request and is entitled to receive a free standard installation.
If the franchisee fails to provide this free standard installation and the
request was made by the subscriber within 30 days of the installation request,
the franchise authority may direct the franchisee to issue a credit for the
installation. Failure to comply with the franchise authority directive will
subject the franchisee to appropriate enforcement actions. This section does
not apply to the introduction of new products and services when the franchisee
is utilizing a phased introduction.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.06 SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS AND OTHER SERVICE PROBLEMS.
   (A)   The franchisee shall make repairs promptly and interrupt cable service
only if necessary and for the shortest period possible.
   (B)   Under normal operating conditions, the franchisee shall promptly
notify the franchise authority of any “significant service interruption” in the
operation of the cable system. For the purposes of this section, a significant
service interruption in the operation of the cable system shall mean any outage
a duration of at least two continuous hours between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to
10:00 p.m., and four continuous hours between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m., to at least 10% of the subscribers in the area served by the head-end.
The franchise authority will provide the required telephone number to the
franchisee on an annual basis by January 1, or as needed.
   (C)   The franchisee shall exercise its best efforts to limit any
significant service interruption for the purpose of maintaining, repairing or
construction of the cable system. Except in an emergency or other situation
necessitating a more expedited or alternative notification procedure, the
franchisee may schedule a significant service interruption only after the
franchise authority has been given reasonable prior notice of the proposed
interruption.
   (D)   Technicians employed by the franchisee and capable of performing
emergency repairs and maintenance must be available 24 hours a day, including
weekends and holidays.
   (E)   The franchisee shall provide upon request of the franchise authority,
a summary of service calls received by category to the franchise authority. The
definitions used to classify service calls for FCC required reports shall be
used in such reports. The report shall be compiled for the franchise area.
   (F)   Under normal operating conditions, the franchisee will begin repairing
service interruptions promptly and in no event later than 24 hours after the
interruption becomes known (including weekends and holidays) unless the
subscriber requests an appointment later than 24 hours after the interruption.
   (G)   Under normal operating conditions, the franchisee must begin actions
to correct cable service problems other than service interruptions the next
business day after notification by a subscriber of the cable service problem
unless the subscriber requests an appointment at a later date.
   (H)   Under normal operating conditions, service-related subscriber
complaints, if possible, must be resolved within 48 hours (provided that the
schedule or preferences of the person requesting service have not been
responsible for the delay) and in any event, resolution must occur within one
week (provided that the schedule or preferences of the person requesting
service have not been responsible for the delay). A complaint shall be
considered to be resolved when signals received by the subscriber have been
brought into compliance with applicable FCC standards. Those matters requiring
additional maintenance, repair or technical adjustments that necessitate an
excess of one week to reasonably complete, must be finally resolved, if
technically feasible, within 30 days of the initial complaint if the complaint
has been determined to be the fault of the franchisee. The franchise authority
may require reasonable documentation to be provided by the franchisee to
substantiate the additional time to resolve a complaint. The foregoing does not
apply to service interruptions that occur on an intermittent basis.
   (I)   Under normal operating conditions, upon request by the subscriber
within 30 days of the outage, the franchisee shall provide a credit to
subscriber when there is an outage of all channels for a period of six
consecutive hours or more that affects the discrete definable portion of the
franchise area. The credit for such an outage shall equal, at a minimum, the
value of one-thirtieth of subscriber’s current monthly bill, excluding premium,
pay-per-view and special events, for the first six consecutive-hour period and
for each additional six-hour period or portion thereof that the outage
continues.
   (J)   The franchisee shall, upon request, provide information to the
franchise authority, regarding the amount of credits that were issued to
subscribers for loss or degradation of service. The report shall be compiled
for the franchise area.
   (K)   Repeated failure to provide the proper credit for outages shall be
grounds for enforcement as provided by the franchise.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.07 INSTALLATION AND SERVICE APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The “appointment window” alternatives for installations and service
calls that require subscribers’ presence, will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a four-hour scheduled time block during normal business hours. The
schedule time block may be longer if the subscriber consents. (The franchisee
may schedule service calls and other installation activities outside of normal
business hours for the express convenience of the subscriber.) This provision
does not apply to disconnects, service upgrades or downgrades that do not
require access to the subscriber’s premises or to special request orders.
   (B)   Under normal operating conditions, if the franchisee does not arrive
for installations or service calls by appointment within the scheduled four-
hour time frame agreed to by the subscriber, the subscriber may request and is
entitled to receive a free standard installation. If the franchisee fails to
provide such free standard installation, and the request was made by the
subscriber within 30 days of the missed appointment, the franchise authority
may direct the franchisee to issue the credit. Failure to comply with the
franchise authority’s directive will subject the franchisee to appropriate
enforcement actions.
   (C)   Under normal operating conditions, the franchisee may not cancel an
appointment with a subscriber after the close of business on the business day
prior to the scheduled appointment without the subscriber’s consent.
   (D)   If the franchisee’s representative is running late for an appointment
with a subscriber and will not be able to keep the appointment as scheduled,
the franchisee will make an effort to contact the subscriber directly, If,
however, the subscriber is unavailable at the time the contact attempt is made,
the franchisee will attempt a second contact at least one more time during the
previously agreed upon appointment window. The appointment will be rescheduled,
as necessary, at a time which is convenient to the subscriber. Contacting the
subscriber will not necessarily negate the requirement for a free standard
installation.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.08 NOTICES AND CUSTOMER COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   An opportunity for review and comment by the franchise authority
required under this section shall not imply that prior approval of the
franchise authority is required. However, in the event of an error concerning
the franchise authority’s information, the franchisee shall not be in
compliance with notification requirements.
   (B)   (1)   The franchisee shall send an annual written notice to all
subscribers informing them that any complaints or inquiries not satisfactorily
handled by the franchisee may be referred to the franchise authority. The
notification shall be either:
         (a)   A separate document that may be included with a billing
statement; or
         (b)   Included on the portion of the monthly bill that is to be
retained by the subscriber.
      (2)   The franchisee’s telephone number for cable service and the
telephone number for the franchise authority shall be contained in the notice.
The franchise authority will provide the required telephone number to the
franchisee on an annual basis by January 1, or as needed. This notice shall
also fully describe the franchisee’s telephone hours and, when applicable, the
lobby hours and shall include the telephone number(s) available to subscribers
after the franchisee’s normal business hours through which subscribers can
obtain, at a minimum, emergency referral information.
   (C)   The franchisee shall notify affected subscribers of any pricing
changes or additional charges (excluding temporary marketing and sales
discounts or offers) and/or any changes in programming services (including a
scrambling or descrambling of channels, except the descrambling of a channel(s)
for promotional purposes) in a manner consistent with federal law.
   (D)   (1)   The franchisee shall provide written information to subscribers
on each of the following areas at the time of installation of cable service, at
least annually to all affected subscribers, at any time upon request and, for
affected subscribers, at least 30 days prior to making significant changes in
the information required by this section:
         (a)   Products and services offered;
         (b)   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscription to programming and other services and facilities;
         (c)   Installation and service maintenance policies including, when
applicable, information regarding the subscriber’s home wiring rights and
information describing ownership of internal wiring during the period cable
service is provided;
         (d)   Instructions on how to use the cable service;
         (e)   Channel positions of programming offered on the system;
         (f)   Billing and complaint procedures, including the name, address
and telephone number of the franchise authority;
         (g)   The availability of a parental control device;
         (h)   The franchisee’s practices and procedures for protecting against
invasions of privacy;
         (i)   The address and telephone number of the franchisee’s office to
which complaints may be reported; and
         (j)   When applicable, the franchisee’s community unit identifier as
specified by the FCC.
      (2)   In all subscriber communications, the franchisee shall be as clear
and precise as possible.
   (E)   Notices of changes in rates shall indicate the new rate and the amount
the rate has increased or decreased from the current rate in dollars and cents
and percentages. Specific words such as “increase” or “decrease” must be used
to describe the changes (as opposed to less specific terms, such as
“adjustment”).
   (F)   Notices of changes of programming and/or channel locations shall
include a concise description of the new programming and/or channel locations
and the specific dial location, of that programming and/or channel locations.
In addition, should the dial location be affected by the introduction of new
programming and/or channel locations, such information must also be included in
the notice.
   (G)   In order that subscribers are fully apprised of the charges they may
incur, the franchisee will generally be required to note that advertised rates
are subject to additional taxes and fees.
   (H)   In order that subscribers are fully apprised of the charges they may
incur, telephone communications with subscribers that quote rates, fees and/or
other charges shall inform subscribers that the rates, fees and/or charges are
subject to additional taxes and fees.
   (I)   Every notice of termination of cable service shall include all of the
following information:
      (1)   The address of the subscriber whose account is delinquent;
      (2)   Current account balance;
      (3)   The date by which payment is required in order to avoid termination
of cable service; and
      (4)   The telephone number of a representative of the franchisee who can
provide additional information and handle complaints or initiate an
investigation concerning the cable service and charges in question.
   (J)   For informational purposes only, a listing of the franchisee’s
closings or holidays will be provided to the franchise authority annually, by
no later than January 1 and by no later than every anniversary thereafter.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.09 BILLS.
   (A)   Bills must be itemized, in accordance with service or services
purchased by subscribers and related equipment charges as provided by law and
regulations. If, on bills, the franchisee chooses to itemize as a separate line
item franchise fees and/or other governmentally imposed fees attributable to
the total bill, the fees must be shown in accordance with any applicable law
concerning the franchisee’s ability to itemize the fees.
   (B)   Every residential subscriber sending payment directly to the
franchisee shall have at least five business days from the postmarked date of
the initial bill for the delinquent amount for cable service to pay the listed
charges prior to disconnect for non-payment.
   (C)   A specific due date shall be indicated on every subscriber bill that
is current. This provision applies only to active, current accounts not those
accounts pending disconnect with delinquent balances.
   (D)   Any subscriber who, in good faith, disputes all or part of any bill
has the option of withholding the disputed amount without disconnection until
the franchisee has investigated the dispute and has made a determination that
the amount is owed; provided that:
      (1)   The subscriber pays all undisputed charges;
      (2)   The subscriber provides written notification of the dispute to the
franchisee in a timely manner and includes identifying information; and
      (3)   The subscriber cooperates in determining the appropriateness of the
charges in dispute.
   (E)   Subscriber bills from the franchisee shall include the name, address
and telephone number of the franchise authority. The franchise authority will
provide the required information to the franchisee on an annual basis by
January 1, or as needed.
   (F)   The franchisee shall forward, on a monthly basis, a sample bill for
the current billing period to the franchise authority.
   (G)   The franchisee shall forward all regulatory billing inserts and copies
of all other mailings required by governmental authorities to subscribers to
the franchise authority at the time that they are provided to subscribers.
(Copies of notices to subscribers must be forwarded to the franchise authority
pursuant to this section.)
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.10 DISCONNECTION/DENIAL OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall not terminate residential cable service for
nonpayment of a delinquent account unless the franchisee provides initial
notice of the delinquency and impending termination at least five business days
prior to the proposed termination. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid,
to the subscriber to whom the cable service is billed. This notice shall not be
mailed until the twenty-fifth day after the initial bill for cable service was
mailed to the subscriber. The notice of delinquency and impending termination
may be part of a billing statement. This section does not apply to subscribers
disconnected due to checks returned due to insufficient funds.
   (B)   The franchisee shall only terminate cable service on days when the
subscriber can reach a representative of the franchisee either in person or by
telephone. Cable service terminated without good cause must be restored without
charge for the restoration of the cable service. Good cause includes, but is
not limited to, signal leakage, failure to pay, payment by check for which
there are insufficient funds, theft of cable service, abuse of equipment or
cable system personnel or other similar subscriber actions.
   (C)   The franchisee shall furnish and maintain cable services to each
person passed by the cable system who qualifies for service and who makes a
request to receive any programming service. Nothing in this section shall limit
the right of the franchisee to deny cable service to any household or
individual that has a negative credit or service history with the franchisee,
which may include nonpayment of bills or theft or damage to the franchisee’s
equipment, or who has threatened or assaulted employees of the franchisee in
the course of their employment; provided that, in the event cable service is
denied, the franchisee will give notice to the subscriber of the right to
contact the appropriate regulatory authority, providing name, address and phone
number as directed by the franchise authority.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.11 DEPOSITS, REFUNDS AND CREDITS.
   (A)   The franchisee may require refundable deposits for service or
equipment. Upon termination of cable service for any reason, subscribers will
be entitled to receive a refund or credit against amounts owed by the
franchisee equal to the deposit. On all deposits, the franchisee shall pay
simple interest at a rate of ½% per month (6% per year). The interest shall be
accrued and payable upon termination of cable service. Upon termination of
cable service for any reason, subscribers will be entitled to receive a refund
or credit against amounts owed the franchisee equal to the deposit, plus
accumulated interest. The rate may be modified to reflect prevailing market
rates upon approval by the franchise authority which shall not be unreasonably
withheld. The interest shall be accrued on deposits charged to subscribers
after the effective date of the franchise. The franchisee shall not be required
to pay simple interest on deposits received prior to the effective date.
   (B)   Refund checks will be issued promptly within 45 days following the
resolution of the event giving rise to the refund.
   (C)   The franchisee shall mail a check for a refund to any subscriber
disconnecting cable service with an outstanding credit of $3 or more within 45
days of the date cable service is ended, and the subscriber has returned all
equipment owned by the franchisee. The subscriber is entitled to receive a $10
penalty payment, in addition to the total refund due if the refund is not
provided within the 45-day period. Failure to comply with the $10 penalty
provision shall be grounds for appropriate enforcement actions. Refunds will be
provided to subscribers with outstanding credits of less than $3 upon request.
   (D)   Credits for cable service will be issued no later than the subscribers
next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is warranted.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.12 RATES, FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The franchisee shall not, except to the extent permitted by applicable
law, impose any fee or charge on any subscriber for service calls to the
subscriber’s premises to perform any repair or maintenance work related to the
franchisee installed equipment necessary to receive cable service, except for
any such work that was necessitated by a negligent or wrongful act of the
subscriber.
   (B)   The franchisee may hold a subscriber responsible and liable for all
theft, loss or damage to converters or other equipment provided to the
subscriber by the franchisee; provided, however, to the extent it can be shown
by the subscriber with clear and substantial evidence that the actions of the
franchisee, its agents or subcontractor(s) reasonably caused the theft, loss or
damage to franchisee’s equipment, then the subscriber shall have no liability.
   (C)   All charges for residential cable service must be applied on a
nondiscriminatory basis, as provided by applicable law.
   (D)   The franchisee may assess a late charge on delinquent accounts of not
more than 25% providing at least 25 days have elapsed after the due date of the
bill and the subscriber was mailed a written notice of delinquency. No late
charge may be assessed on the amount of a bill in dispute if found in favor of
the subscriber.
   (E)   The franchisee shall be entitled to recover a fee for all checks
returned due to non-sufficient funds.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.13 PARENTAL CONTROL OPTIONS.
   Consistent with applicable law, the franchisee shall provide, free of charge
or for a charge approved by the franchise authority or the FCC, parental
control devices to all subscribers who wish to be capable of deleting
objectionable programming from the cable service entering the subscriber’s
residence.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.14 PERIODIC SUBSCRIBER SURVEY.
   (A)   At least every three years during the term of its franchise, the
franchisee shall conduct a random survey of subscribers within the franchise
area in a form and manner approved by the franchise authority. The franchise
authority’s approval of the form and manner of the franchisee’s proposed survey
shall not be unreasonably withheld and the approval shall be deemed granted if
the franchise authority has not specifically disapproved the proposal in
writing (stating the reasons for the disapproval) within ten business days of
the receipt of the survey proposal from the franchisee. Each questionnaire
shall be prepared and processed in good faith so as to provide reasonably
reliable measures of subscriber satisfaction with:
      (1)   Signal quality;
      (2)   Response to subscriber complaints;
      (3)   Billing practices;
      (4)   Programming services; and
      (5)   Installation practices.
   (B)   The survey shall be conducted in conformity with such requirements,
including supervision and review of survey responses, as the franchise
authority may prescribe. At the option of the franchisee, the franchisee may
satisfy the requirements of this section through a survey conducted by an
independent person approved by the franchise authority who is qualified to
conduct the surveys.
   (C)   Should the franchisee elect to utilize an independent person to
conduct such surveys, the franchise authority shall receive a written copy of
the results of the survey directly from the person who conducted it. The
franchisee shall report, in writing, to the franchise authority what steps
(including, but not limited to, correcting problems, modifying services and/or
practices or expanding services) the franchisee is taking to implement the
findings of the survey.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The franchise authority may make orders and assess reasonable
penalties against the franchisee for violation of any of these customer service
standards. The order(s) may require the franchisee to undertake an activity
pursuant to these standards and may assess a reasonable penalty not to exceed
$300 per day for each day that the franchisee fails to comply with such order
(s). An order of the franchise authority shall be final only after a hearing
before the legislative authority of the franchise authority.
   (B)   The franchise authority may seek injunctive relief or any other
judicial remedy available pursuant to applicable federal or state law in order
to enforce compliance with these standards.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.16 CABLE OFFICER OR CABLE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The franchise authority may delegate the enforcement of these customer
service standards to a cable officer or cable commission established or
designated by the legislative authority of the franchise authority.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the cable officer or cable
commission shall be:
      (1)   (a)   The hearing of complaints of subscribers made in writing to
the franchise authority regarding alleged violation(s) of the customer service
requirements;
         (b)   All reasonable efforts shall be made to resolve any complaint
through informal methods;
         (c)   In the event any complaint can not be informally resolved, a
hearing shall be held with at least ten days written notice to the franchisee
and the complainant;
         (d)   After the hearing findings and conclusions shall be made and
orders may be issued and/or penalties may be assessed, if appropriate;
         (e)   All formal decisions regarding complaints shall be subject to
referral to the legislative authority of the franchise authority which may act
to affirm, overrule or modify the decision or any aspect of the decision within
30 calendar days of the issuance of the decision; and
         (f)   Should the legislative authority not take an action on any
decision referred to it, the decision shall stand as issued.
      (2)   (a)   As required or permitted under applicable federal or state
law, rule or regulations, review of requests for the establishment of or
changes to rates, fees and charges for basic service, equipment and
installation and recommendations for rates, fees and charges shall be presented
to the franchise authority for approval or disapproval.
         (b)   In completing the review(s), the staff of the franchise
authority and/or qualified outside professional assistance may be utilized as
appropriate and authorized by the franchise authority.
         (c)   Except as required or permitted under applicable federal or
state law, rule or regulations, no change in rates, fees or charges for basic
service, equipment or installation shall be deemed approved or disapproved
until after a hearing by the franchise authority and appropriate action has
been taken by the legislative authority of the franchise authority.
      (3)   (a)   Establish a schedule of regular meetings to be held at least
twice per year and hold special meetings as may be reasonable and appropriate.
         (b)   All meetings shall conform with the rules and laws related to
public notification and open meetings as set forth in applicable local, state
or federal codes.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 112.17 RIGHTS RESERVED BY THE FRANCHISE AUTHORITY.
   The franchise authority reserves the right to establish additional,
reasonable consumer service standards from time to time, as may be necessary,
after making a finding of need and after notice and opportunity to be heard
from the franchisee.
(Res. 98-86, passed 11-16-1998)
CHAPTER 113: MOBILE FOOD VEHICLES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Registration required
   
113.03   Application for registration
   
113.04   Furnishing of information
   
113.05   Permit
   
113.06   Public property operation
   
113.07   Visibility triangle
   
113.08   Littering and trash removal
   
113.09   Enforcement and penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms listed here shall have the following meaning when used in this
chapter:
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A business operation or any part thereof that stores,
prepares, packages, serves, vends or otherwise provides food and/or beverages
for human consumption.
   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE. A food establishment that is located upon a vehicle of
any kind, including motorcycles and bicycles, or which is pulled by a vehicle.
This definition includes mobile food kitchens, pushcart vendors, bicycle cart
vendors, mobile food trucks, canteen trucks and coffee trucks and trailers of
any kind.
   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE OPERATOR. Any and all persons associated with the
operation of a mobile food vehicle for which registration has been made to
operate the mobile food vehicle within Archbold.
(Ord. 2021-40, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 113.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No mobile food vehicle shall be operated in Archbold without first
registering with the Engineering/Zoning Department. A separate registration
must be made for each and every mobile food vehicle to be operated within
Archbold. No registration is required for one-time special events on private
property that do not serve food to the general public, and it shall be the sole
responsibility of the private party to verify the safety and licensing of the
mobile food vehicle operator.
(Ord. 2021-40, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 113.03 APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION.
   Registration and permitting is required for all mobile food vehicles that
provide food and services to the general public on public and/or private
property. An application must be filed and shall include the following minimum
requirements:
   (A)   Each mobile food vehicle operator shall, prior to commencing
operations within Archbold, furnish the Engineering/Zoning Department, a fully
executed application for registration to operate a mobile food vehicle within
Archbold; and,
   (B)   Applications for registrations to operate mobile food vehicles will be
accepted by the Engineering/Zoning Department.
(Ord. 2021-40, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 113.04 FURNISHING OF INFORMATION.
   A mobile food vehicle operator, prior to commencing mobile food vehicle
operations within Archbold, shall furnish the Engineering/Zoning Department
with the following documents and information:
   (A)   A current, written certification that the mobile food vehicle has
passed all necessary inspections required by the Archbold Fire Department;
   (B)   A current written certification that the mobile food vehicle operator
and the mobile food vehicle have passed all necessary inspections and are in
full compliance with the requirements of the Fulton County Health Department;
   (C)   Proof of registration with the Archbold Income Tax Division;
   (D)   A current certificate of insurance evidencing general liability
coverage in the minimum amount of $1,000,000;
   (E)   Copy of current/valid state mobile food vendor license (front and
back);
   (F)   Copy of current/valid Fulton County Health Department License, issued
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3717.
   (G)   A plan for electric, water and sewer needs, if situated on public
property; and,
   (H)   Each mobile food vehicle operator approved to deploy on public
property shall also provide information in accordance with §
113.06 or as requested by the Engineering/Zoning Department to ensure the
general welfare and safety of the public.
(Ord. 2021-40, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 113.05 PERMIT.
   (A)   Each mobile food vehicle operator shall, prior to commencing
operations within Archbold, pay an annual, nonrefundable permit fee in the
amount of $100 regardless of when acquired, without proration.
   (B)   Archbold shall, no later than 14 days after receiving (i) a fully
executed application for registration to operate a mobile food vehicle, (ii)
all other required documents and information, and (iii) the annual permit fee,
issue a permit to the mobile food vehicle operator to operate the mobile food
vehicle within Archbold.
   (C)   Mobile food vehicle permits must be on display, on the vehicle, in
full sight for all to see at all times while the mobile food vehicle is
operating within Archbold.
   (D)   Mobile food vehicle permits are specific to the mobile food vehicle
operator and the mobile food vehicle, and are not transferable. Should a change
in ownership of a mobile food vending unit occur at any time, the succeeding
owner must comply with the application, inspection and fee requirements of this
chapter, as well as any application, inspection and fee requirements for a
health license.
   (E)   Mobile food vehicle permits will automatically expire each year on
December 31 regardless of when the permit was acquired.
   (F)   No annual permit fee shall be required of mobile food vehicles or
mobile food vehicle operators owned or compensated by a food establishment
currently operating within the municipal boundary from a fixed location (i.e.,
from owned or leased real property), and in compliance with all other
applicable, local regulations.
(Ord. 2021-40, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 113.06 PUBLIC PROPERTY OPERATION.
   In addition to the permit application provided for in §
113.05 and the fee provided for in §
113.05(a), each mobile food vehicle operator approved to deploy on public
property shall also meet the following minimum requirements and provide the
following information:
   (A)   The applicant shall also deposit, before the license is issued, the
sum of $200 to guarantee the cost of cleaning the premises and removing any
property therefrom after the termination of the event. If the public premises
on which the business is conducted are not cleaned and all merchandise,
property, refuse, and temporary structures are not removed therefrom and
properly disposed of within 48 hours after the termination of the business, the
Parks Director shall immediately cause such work to be done and report the cost
thereof to the Engineering/Zoning Department, who shall deduct the cost and
return any balance of the deposit. The mobile food vehicle operator shall be
liable for any deficiency;
   (B)   A general plan for electrical and water and sewer service, signage,
and parking;
   (C)   No on-street parking locations in the Central Business District can be
utilized without express written permission from the Engineering/Zoning
Department;
   (D)   All parking, lighting, noise, and traffic laws must be followed, and
no additional seating or tables may be utilized;
   (E)   External signs must conform to the Archbold zoning laws; and,
   (F)   Sidewalk operation: The mobile food vehicle operator must maintain a
path that adheres to the American with Disabilities Act (ADA) and is free and
clear for pedestrian traffic, and shall not place additional seating or signage
on the sidewalk.
   (G)   Mobile food vehicle operators operating in a public park must obtain
permission from festival or special event organizers and coordinate with the
Engineering/Zoning Department and Parks Director.
(Ord. 2021-40, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 113.07 VISIBILITY TRIANGLE.
   Each mobile food vehicle must maintain the "visibility triangle" in
accordance with §
152.040 of the Archbold Codified Ordinances.
(Ord. 2021-40, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 113.08 LITTERING AND TRASH REMOVAL.
   Mobile food vehicle operators must keep the sidewalks, roadways and all
other spaces adjacent to their business site or location clean and free of
paper, peelings and other refuse of any kind generated from the operation of
their business. All trash or debris accumulating within 25 feet of any mobile
food vehicle shall be collected by the operator and deposited in a trash
container maintained by the operator in good condition and constructed of a
non-corrodible and watertight material, sufficient to hold the refuse generated
by the business. Such container shall be removed by the operator whenever the
mobile food vehicle moves to another location or at the close of business
daily.
(Ord. 2021-40, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 113.09 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.
   In the case of a failure by any mobile food vehicle operator to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter, such mobile food vehicle operator shall
be in violation and shall be subject to a penalty.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall be enforceable by the Archbold
Police Division.
   (B)   A penalty in the amount of $100 shall be assessed and immediately
payable for failure to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day, or part thereof, for which
a mobile food vehicle operator fails to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter. Any and all penalties are in addition to the annual permit fee.
   (C)   No penalty shall be imposed under this chapter with respect to any
failure if it is shown that such failure is due to reasonable cause and not due
to willful neglect.
   (D)   Upon discovery of the violation, the mobile food vehicle operator
shall be served with notice of violation and demand for penalty in the same
manner as a fine. Upon service with the notice of violation, the mobile food
vehicle operator shall immediately cease operations within Archbold until such
time as the mobile food vehicle operator is issued a valid permit for
operations.
   (E)   No mobile food vehicle operator shall be permitted to operate a mobile
food vehicle within Archbold for any year in which it has been assessed
penalties under this chapter on more than two occasions.
(Ord. 2021-40, passed 5-17-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Criminal damaging or endangering
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct
   
130.03   Unreasonable noise
   
130.04   Resisting arrest
   
130.05   Discharging firearms
   
130.06   Curfew for children under the age of 18
   
130.07   Adult use cannabis operators, adult use cultivators, and adult use
dispensaries prohibited
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING.
   (A)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm to
any property of another without the other person’s consent:
      (1)   Knowingly, by any means; or
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas, poison,
radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material or other inherently
dangerous agency or substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal damaging or
endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved in a violation
of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller, appliance, spare
part or any other equipment or implement used or intended to be used in the
operation of an aircraft and if the violation creates a risk of physical harm
to any person, criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If the property involved in a violation of this
section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller, appliance, spare part or
any other equipment or implement used or intended to be used in the operation
of an aircraft and if the violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm
to any person or if the property involved in a violation of this section is an
occupied aircraft, criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06) (Ord. 82-65, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right- of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11) (Ord. 84-60, passed 11-5-1984)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 UNREASONABLE NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall make, cause or permit to be made or caused any
unnecessary, excessive or offensive noise, which injures or otherwise endangers
the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of other persons with the limits
of the village.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the following shall be presumed to
be unnecessary, excessive or offensive noise and in violation of the provisions
of division (A) above.
      (1)   No person operating or occupying a motor vehicle on a street,
highway, alley park, parking lot or driveway shall operate or permit the
operation of any sound amplification system from within the vehicle so that the
sound is plainly audible at a distance of 50 or more feet from the vehicle.
      (2)   The operation, playing or permitting the operation or playing of
any electronic device or musical instrument which produces, reproduces or
amplifies sound so as to be audible and disturbing to surrounding properties,
particularly between the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
   (C)   Noises resulting from sporting and recreational events authorized by
the village or school and other activities, which have the approval of the
village.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUDIBLE. Any sound that can be heard by a person using his or her normal
faculties.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes but is not limited to automobiles, recreational
vehicles, trucks, with or without trailers, motorcycles, motorized bicycles and
watercraft.
      PERSON. Any person, person’s firm, association, partnership, venture,
corporation or any entity, public or private.
      PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any sound produced by a sound amplification system,
which can be heard at a distance of 50 feet or more. Measurement standards
shall be by the auditory senses, based upon the direct line of sight. Words or
phrases need not be discernible and base reverberations are included.
      PROPERTIES.  An imaginary line along the ground surface, and its vertical
extension, which separates the real property owned or rented by one person from
that owned by another.
      SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM. Any radio, tape player, compact disc player,
loudspeaker or other device used for the playing or amplification of the human
voice or other sound.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section shall be deemed guilty of a minor
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. 82-72, passed 11-15-1982; Am. Ord. 02-42, passed 8-5-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; and
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony of the
fourth degree and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33) (Ord. 82-74, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall shoot, force or throw any substance or object within
the village limits by means of an airgun, blowgun, slingshot, bow, crossbow or
any other similar device.
   (B)    No person, shall, without permission from the proper official,
discharge a firearm of any type within the corporate limits of the village.
   (C)   This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military salute or the
firing of weapons by persons of the nation’s armed forces acting under military
authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials in the proper
enforcement of the law, or to any person in the proper exercise of the right of
self defense, or to any person otherwise lawfully permitted by proper federal,
state or local authorities to discharge a firearm in a manner contrary to the
provisions of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be deemed guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. 82-71, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 CURFEW FOR CHILDREN UNDER THE AGE OF 18.
   (A)   Curfew for children under age 16. It shall be unlawful for any child
under the age of 16 years to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, play or be in a
motor vehicle in, upon or about the public streets, sidewalks and parks, public
buildings and grounds and public places of amusement and entertainment or other
unsupervised places in the village between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. of the following day, village time, unless accompanied by a parent,
guardian or some responsible person over the age of 21 years having the care
and custody of the child.
   (B)   Curfew for children between ages 16 and 18. It shall be unlawful for
any child between the ages 16 and 18 years to loiter, idle, wander, stroll,
play or be in a motor vehicle in, upon or about the public streets, sidewalks
and parks, public buildings and grounds and public places of amusement or
entertainment or other unsupervised places in the village between the hours of
12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, village time, unless
accompanied by a parent, guardian or some responsible person over the age of 21
years having the care and custody of the child.
   (C)   Responsibility of parent or guardian. No parent, guardian or person
charged with the care and custody of any child under the age of 18 shall
knowingly permit the child to violate the provisions of this section or neglect
to restrain or prevent the child from violating the provisions of this section.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by a parent, guardian, or
custodian;
      (3)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by a
parent, guardian, or custodian; or
      (4)   Occupying the sidewalk of the place where the minor resides, or the
sidewalk of a place where the minor has permission from his or her parent or
guardian to be, or the sidewalk of a next-door neighbor not communicating an
objection to a police officer.
      (5)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment; or
         (b)   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious, or
social event.
         (c)   Interstate travel.
(Ord. 72-59, passed 10-2-1972)
§ 130.07 ADULT USE CANNABIS OPERATORS, ADULT USE CULTIVATORS, AND ADULT USE
DISPENSARIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Adult use cannabis operators, adult use cultivators, and adult use
dispensaries as defined by R.C. Chapter 3780, are prohibited from operating
within the village.
   (B)   The growing of cannabis is prohibited on village owned property.
(Ord. 2023-54, passed 12-4-2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
151.   SUBDIVISION AND ENGINEERING REGULATIONS
      
152.   ZONING CODE
      
153.   BUILDING CODE
      
154.   VACANT PROPERTY AND BUILDING REGISTRATION
CHAPTER 150: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Statutory authorization
   
150.02   Finding of fact
   
150.03   Statement of purpose
   
150.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
150.05   Definitions
   
150.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
150.07   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
150.08   Compliance
   
150.09   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
150.10   Interpretation
   
150.11   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
150.20   General standards
   
150.21   Specific standards
   
150.22   Floodways
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.35   Establishment of development permit
   
150.36   Exemption from filing development permit
   
150.37   Flood Damage Prevention Administrator; designation and duties
   
150.38   Appeal Board; variance procedure
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   Article XVIII, § 3, of the Ohio Constitution grants municipalities the legal
authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the health,
safety, and general welfare of its citizens. Therefore, the Council of the
Village of Archbold, State of Ohio, does ordain the following chapter.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 150.02 FINDING OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the village are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   (1)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities and, when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas.
      (2)   Uses that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise
protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 150.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 150.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water hazards or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 150.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Village Administrator's interpretation
of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. Areas of special flood hazard are
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as Zone A, AE, AH, AO,
A1-30 and A99.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 100-year flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP. The official map issued by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency where the areas of special flood hazard have been designated
as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district, or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that, the
enclosure is built in accordance with the applicable design requirements
specified in this chapter for enclosures below the lowest floor.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term does
not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided
into two or more manufactured home lots for rent. This definition shall exclude
any manufactured home park as defined in R.C. § 3733.01, for which the Public
Health Council has exclusive rule making power.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two or more manufactured home lots for sale. This definition shall
exclude any manufactured home park as defined in R.C. § 3733.01, for which the
Public Health Council has exclusive rule making power.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the initial effective date of the village's Flood Insurance Rate
Map (January 4, 1985), and includes any subsequent improvements to the
structures.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a  substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions;
      (2)   Any alteration of a "historic structure"; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure"; or
      (3)   Any improvement to a structure which is considered new
construction.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the standards of this chapter consistent
with the variance conditions herein.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011; Am. Ord. 11-
26, passed 4-4-2011)
§ 150.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the village as identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, including any additional flood hazard areas annexed by the village that
are not identified on the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 150.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard have been identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency in its Flood Insurance Rate Map for the village and
the scientific and engineering report entitled, Flood Insurance Study for
Fulton County. This study with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps dated
September 29, 1989, the village's Flood Insurance Rate Maps dated January 4,
1985, and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be part of this chapter. The maps and Flood Insurance Study are on file at the
Village Municipal Building, 300 North Defiance Street, Archbold, Ohio.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 150.08 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without full compliance with
the terms of this chapter and all other applicable regulations which apply to
uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter, unless specifically exempted from
filing for a development permit as stated in §
150.36.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 150.09 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 150.10 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. Where a provision of this chapter may be in conflict with a
state law, the state law shall take precedence over the ordinance.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 150.11 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the village, any officer or employee
thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damage that
results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 150.20 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following standards are required:
   (A)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effect of buoyancy.
      (2)   All manufactured homes, not otherwise regulated by the Ohio Revised
Code pertaining to manufactured home parks, shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Methods
of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame
ties to ground anchors.
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage; and
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Utilities. The following standards apply to all water supply, sanitary
sewerage and waste disposal systems not otherwise regulated by the Ohio Revised
Code:
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems;
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary, sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
      (3)   Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (D)   Subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
      (2)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
damage; and
      (4)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, shall meet the specific standards of §
150.21(F).
   (E)   Standards in areas of special flood hazard without base flood
elevation data. In all areas of special flood hazard identified as Zone A on
the Flood Insurance Rate Map where base flood elevation data are not available
from any source, the following provisions apply:
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential,
commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to at least two feet above the highest
adjacent natural grade.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)  Penalty, see
§
150.99
§ 150.21 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data have
been provided as set forth in §§
150.07,
150.37(B)(2) or division (F) of this section, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to the level of the base flood elevation;
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
         (a)   Be floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the base
flood elevation. In order to be eligible for lower flood insurance rates, the
structure should be floodproofed at least one foot above the base flood
elevation;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting the standards of this division. The
certification shall be provided to the official, as set forth in §
150.35(C).
   (C)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   A relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing standards may be
granted for accessory structures (e.g., sheds, detached garages) containing 576
square feet or less in gross floor area. The structures must meet the
encroachment provisions of §
150.22(A) and the following additional standards:
         (a)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
         (b)   They shall be designed to have low flood damage potential;
         (c)   They shall be constructed and placed on the building site so as
to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters;
         (d)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation; and
         (e)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be elevated or floodproofed.
   (D)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   The following standards shall apply to all new and substantially
improved manufactured homes not subject to the manufactured home requirements
of R.C. § 3733.01.
         (a)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored in accordance with §
150.20(A)(2).
         (b)   Manufactured homes shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at the base flood
elevation.
      (2)   These standards also apply to recreational vehicles that are
either:
         (a)   Located on sites for 180 days or more; or
         (b)   Are not fully licensed and ready for highway use.
   (E)   Enclosures below the lowest floor. The following standards apply to
all new and substantially improved residential and nonresidential structures
which are elevated to the base flood elevation using pilings, columns or posts.
Fully-enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are useable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must:
      (1)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect; or
      (2)   Must meet or exceed the following criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided; and
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
openings provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (F)   Subdivisions and large developments. In all areas of special flood
hazard where base flood elevation data have not been provided in accordance
with §§
150.07 or
150.37(B)(2), the following standards apply to all subdivision proposals,
including manufactured home subdivisions, and other proposed developments
containing at least 50 lots or five acres (whichever is less):
      (1)   The applicant shall provide base flood elevation data performed in
accordance with standard engineering practices; and
      (2)   If division (F)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
150.20 and
150.21.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)  Penalty, see
§
150.99
§ 150.22 FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Generally. The Flood Insurance Study for Fulton County referenced in §
150.07 identifies a segment within areas of special flood hazard known as the
floodway. Floodways may also be delineated in other sources of flood
information as specified in §
150.37(B)(2). The floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion
potential. The following provisions apply within all delineated floodway areas:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development unless a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis performed in accordance with standard engineering practices
demonstrates that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in
flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge;
      (2)   If division (A)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §
150.21; and
      (3)   Any encroachment within the floodway that would result in an
increase in base flood elevations can only be granted upon the prior approval
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The requests must be submitted by
the Village Administrator to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and must
meet the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (B)   Areas without floodways. In all areas of special flood hazard where
the Flood Insurance Study provides base flood elevation data as set forth in §
150.07, but no floodways have been designated, the following provisions apply.
      (1)   New construction, substantial improvements or other development
(including fill) shall only be permitted if it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   If division (B)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §
150.20.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)  Penalty, see
§
150.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained from the Village Administrator
before construction or development begins within any area of special flood
hazard established in §
150.07. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Village Administrator and may include, but not be limited to: site
specific topographic plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of
the foregoing.
   (B)   The following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor,
including basement, of all proposed structures located in special flood hazard
areas where base flood elevation data are utilized;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
structure will be floodproofed in accordance with §
150.21(B)(1) where base flood elevation data are utilized;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in §
150.21(B)(1) where base flood elevation data are utilized; and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of the proposed development and certification by a
registered professional engineer that the flood carrying capacity of the
watercourse will not be diminished.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 150.36 EXEMPTION FROM FILING DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   An application for a development permit shall not be required for
maintenance work such as roofing, painting and basement sealing, or for small
nonstructural development activities (except for filling and grading) valued at
less than $1,000. Any proposed action exempt from filing for a development
permit is also exempt from the standards of this chapter.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 150.37 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ADMINISTRATOR; DESIGNATION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Village Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and
implement this chapter by granting or denying development permit applications
in accordance with its provisions.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Village Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Permit review.
         (a)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Review all development permits to assure that all necessary
permits have been received from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required. The applicant shall be
responsible for obtaining such permits as required including permits issued by
the Department of the Army under § 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 403, and § 404 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1344; and
         (c)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located within a designated floodway. Floodways are delineated
in the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map or the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the
Flood Insurance Study. Floodways may also be delineated in other sources of
flood information. If the proposed development is located within a designated
floodway, assure that the encroachment provision of §
150.22(A) is met.
      (2)   Use of other base flood elevation and floodway data. Areas of
special flood hazard where base flood elevation data have not been provided by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency in accordance with §
150.07, are designated as Zone A on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map
(or Flood Hazard Boundary Map). Within these areas, the Village Administrator
shall obtain review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and
floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source, including data
obtained under §
150.21(F), in order to administer §§
150.21(A),
150.21(B) and
150.22.
      (3)   Information to be obtained and maintained. Where base flood
elevation data are utilized within areas of special flood hazard on a
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map, regardless of the source of the data, the
following provisions apply:
         (a)   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or substantially
improved structures, and record whether or not the structures contain an
enclosure below the lowest floor;
         (b)   For all new or substantially- improved floodproofed
nonresidential structures:
            1.   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level) to which the structure was floodproofed; and
            2.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in §
150.35(C).
         (c)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Alteration of watercourses.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities and the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources, Division of Water, prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. A watercourse is considered to be altered if any change
occurs within it banks.
         (b)   Maintain engineering docu- mentation required in §
150.35(D) that the flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated portion
of the watercourse will not be diminished.
         (c)   Require that necessary maintenance will be provided for the
altered or relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying
capacity will not be diminished.
      (5)   Interpretation of flood boundaries. Make interpretations, where
needed, as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special
flood hazard (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions). Where a map boundary and field
elevations disagree, the elevations delineated in the flood elevation profile
shall prevail. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
150.38.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 150.38 APPEAL BOARD; VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Appeal Board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board as established by the village shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by the
Village Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
      (3)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the Fulton County Court of Common Pleas,
as provided in R.C. Chapter 2506.
      (4)   In passing upon such applications, the Appeal Board shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         (f)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
      (5)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (A)(4) above and the
purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
      (6)   The Village Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
upon request.
   (B)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in base flood levels would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (3)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (A)(4)(a) through (k) of this
section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (4)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in this chapter,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public as identified in
division (A)(4) of this section, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
      (6)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance will
be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Any
person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined or
imprisoned as provided by the laws of the village. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation. The village shall prosecute any violation
of this chapter in accordance with the penalties stated herein.
(Ord. 98-48, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 2-21-2011)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION AND ENGINEERING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.101   Title
   
151.102   Interpretation and purpose
   
151.103   Policy
   
151.104   Authority
   
151.105   Jurisdiction
   
151.106   Relation to other laws
   
151.107   Engineering Standards Manual
   
151.108   Validity and separability
   
151.109   Saving provision
   
151.110   Adoption and amendments
Administration
   
151.201   General
   
151.202   Variances, exceptions and waiver of conditions
   
151.203   Expirations and extensions
   
151.204   Voided applications
   
151.205   Recording of plat
   
151.206   Revision of plat after approval
   
151.207   Fees
   
151.208   Violations
   
151.209   Appeals
Subdivision Application and Procedure
   
151.301   General
   
151.302   Standard subdivision procedure
   
151.303   Minor subdivision (lot split)
   
151.304   Major subdivision
   
151.305   Replats, vacations and parcel combinations
Plat and Site Design Standards
   
151.401   General
   
151.402   Land suitability
   
151.403   Conformance to applicable regulations
   
151.404   Plat design
   
151.405   Blocks
   
151.406   Lots
   
151.407   Street and circulation system design
   
151.408   Street names
   
151.409   Easements
   
151.410   Non-residential subdivisions design standards
Streets and Sidewalks
   
151.501   General
   
151.502   Conformity to development plans and zoning
   
151.503   Official street design standards
   
151.504   Horizontal alignment
   
151.505   Vertical alignment
   
151.506   Intersection design standards
   
151.507   Street width
   
151.508   Street subgrade
   
151.509   Street stone and asphalt base course
   
151.510   Street intermediate and surface course
   
151.511   Street curbs and gutters
   
151.512   Driveways
   
151.513   Sidewalks
   
151.514   Street and walkway lighting
   
151.515   Monuments and pins
   
151.516   Culverts and bridges
   
151.517   Street and alley vacations, narrowing and change of name
Utility and Environmental Design Standards
   
151.601   General
   
151.602   Water supply
   
151.603   Sanitary sewers
   
151.604   Storm sewers
   
151.605   Flood areas and storm drainage ditches
   
151.606   Fire protection
   
151.607   Electric, gas and communications
   
151.608   Oversize and offsite improvements
   
151.609   Public sites, open space and recreation
   
151.610   Soil erosion
Improvement Construction Requirements
   
151.701   General
   
151.702   Improvement and cost information
    
151.703   Performance guarantee for improvements installation and maintenance
   
151.704   Temporary improvements
   
151.705   Time extension
   
151.706   Failure to complete improvements
   
151.707   Progressive installation
   
151.708   Deferral or waiver of required improvements
   
151.709   Inspection of improvements
   
151.710   Completion of work and reduction of security
   
151.711   Acceptance of improvements for public use and maintenance
   
151.712   As-built plans
Appendix
   
151.801   Definitions
   
151.802   Statements and Forms
   
151.803   Applicable checklists
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.101 TITLE.
   These rules, regulations, and standards shall be officially known as the
"Subdivision & Engineering Regulations of Archbold, Ohio," and shall
hereinafter be referred to as "these Regulations."
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.102 INTERPRETATION AND PURPOSE.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these Regulations
shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the protection of the
public health, safety, and welfare of the Village of Archbold. These
Regulations are intended to:
   (A)   Establish standards for logical, sound, and economical development.
   (B)   Secure safety from fire, flood, and other danger; to prevent
population congestion and overcrowding of the land; to provide orderly
expansion and extension of community services and facilities at minimum cost
and maximum convenience.
   (C)   Provide for the proper arrangement of streets and highways in relation
to those existing or planned, and to provide for the most beneficial
relationship between use of land, buildings, traffic, and pedestrian movements
that encourage innovative layout and designs to afford citizens choices in
housing and design, and to protect and preserve significant common open space
areas.
   (D)   Improve quality of life through the protection of the environment,
including the prevention of air, water, light, and noise pollution, the
prevention of soil erosion, and the preservation of natural beauty and
topography.
   (E)   Ensure appropriate surveying of land, preparing and recording of
plats, and the equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing uniform
procedures and standards for observance by both the municipality and
developers.
   (F)   Ensure that land subdivision and development are in accordance with
the official Thoroughfare Plan of Archbold and the Archbold Zoning Code, and be
properly related to the Archbold Comprehensive Plan, adopted April 5, 2021.
 
Note
The Archbold Zoning code can be found under
Chapter 152 of the Village of Archbold Codified Ordinances.
 
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.103 POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of this municipality to consider a subdivision of
land within its corporation limits and its subsequent development as subject to
this municipality for orderly, planned, safe, and efficient community
development.
   (B)   A proposed subdivision shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes and shall not be subdivided until adequate
facilities and improvements such as drainage, water, sewerage, and public open
space are provided, or a performance bond is filed to assure that the required
improvements will be made by the subdivider.
   (C)   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
in accordance with the proposals shown in the official Thoroughfare Plan, the
Zoning Code, the Comprehensive Plan, and the Capital Improvements Program. It
is also intended that these Regulations shall supplement and facilitate the
enforcement of the provisions and standards contained in the aforementioned
documents under this section.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.104 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Archbold Planning Commission derives its legal authority in the
matter of regulating the subdivision and improvement of land from the
following:
      (1)   The Ohio Revised Code including, but not limited to, the statutes
contained in Chapters 711 and 713.
      (2)   The Village of Archbold Charter including, but not limited to, §
10.03.
   (B)   Whenever any provision of these Regulations refers to or cites a
section of the Ohio Revised Code (as amended) and that section is later amended
or superseded, these Regulations shall be deemed amended to comply with the
updated section of the Ohio Revised Code applicable to these Regulations.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.105 JURISDICTION.
   These Regulations shall apply to all land, subdivisions of land, and land
development within the corporation limits of the Village of Archbold, Ohio.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.106 RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   The provisions of these Regulations shall supplement the laws of the
State of Ohio, the Fulton County Land Transfer Requirements, other ordinances
adopted by Archbold Council, and the rules and regulations enforced under such
law or ordinance relating to the purpose and scope of these Regulations.
   (B)   No subdivision plat shall be approved for recording until the
requirements of these Regulations have been met and certification thereof has
been endorsed upon the plat by the appropriate reviewing authority.
   (C)   Whenever the requirements of these Regulations vary from the
requirements of other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, or ordinances, the
most restrictive or that imposing the highest standard shall govern. These
Regulations shall be interpreted as the minimum requirements.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.107 ENGINEERING STANDARDS MANUAL.
   The Archbold Engineering Standards Manual offers guidance, minimum
standards, and acceptable procedures for the design of streets, drainage, and
the location of public and quasi-public utilities. These standards are
frequently referenced herein, and they represent the controlling requirements
for surveys, storm drainage design requirements, pavement and roadway design,
utilities, construction drawing standards, plat/improvement review fees, and
inspection fees.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.108 VALIDITY AND SEPARABILITY.
   If any clause, provision, or portion of these Regulations shall be held
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect validity or legality of these Regulations as a whole or any
part thereof, other than the part deemed invalid. These Regulations shall not
interfere with other applicable laws, regulations, deed restrictions, covenant,
or other private agreement, or with restrictive covenants running with the land
to which the municipality is a party.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.109 SAVING PROVISION.
   These Regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations as approved by
the Archbold Planning Commission; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or
altering any penalty accruing or about to accrue; or as affecting the liability
of any person, firm or corporation; or as waiving any right of the village
under any section or provision existing at the time of adoption these
Regulations; or, as vacating or annulling any rights adopted by any person,
firm or corporation by lawful action of this municipality except as shall be
expressly provided for in these Regulations.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.110 ADOPTION AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The adoption of, and amendments to, these Regulations may be initiated
by the Planning Commission or Village Council per R.C. Chapter 711. If
initiated by Council, such adoption or amendment shall be referred to the
Commission for review. After receiving recommendations thereon, the Commission
shall hold a public hearing in accordance with the provisions set forth in the
Archbold Zoning Code.
Adopted by the Village of Archbold Council on             
Resolution #             
These Regulations will become effective             
   (B)   Henceforth, any other regulations previously adopted by the Planning
Commission shall be deemed to be repealed. These Regulations shall in no way
affect any subdivision having received preliminary plan approval prior to the
effective date of these Regulations or any amendment thereto, provided that no
changes to the approved preliminary plan are introduced by the subdivider.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may amend, supplement, or change these
Regulations in accordance with R.C. Chapter 711. However, the Commission may
only amend, supplement, or change regulations requiring the actual construction
of improvements or the posting of performance guarantees after review and
adoption by Council. If the amendment is approved by the Commission, Village
Council may adopt the amendment by a majority vote; or, if such amendment is
not approved by the Commission, it shall require a vote of five Village Council
members for adoption.
   (D)   The Village Engineer may, as necessary, update and revise the Archbold
Engineering Standards Manual on file at the Engineering Department to maintain
consistency with current best practices for construction materials
specifications and applicable rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.201 GENERAL.
   These Regulations, having been adopted by the Archbold Council and Planning
Commission according to statutory requirements, shall be administered and
enforced by the Village Engineer and Planning Director, with the assistance of
other government agencies and legal counsel. Discretionary, conflicting, or
disputed aspects of these Regulations shall be interpreted by the Village
Engineer and, in the event of their absence, the Planning Director.
Table 1   Review Bodies | Summary of Responsibilities
Procedure Village Planning   Board of Zoning Planning Village  Per Section
          Council Commission Appeals         Director Engineer
Table 1   Review Bodies | Summary of Responsibilities
Procedure     Village Planning   Board of Zoning Planning Village  Per Section
              Council Commission Appeals         Director Engineer
Zoning Code                                                        §
Text and/or   H | D   H | R      X               R        X        152.006
Map Amendment
Planned
Development   X       X          X               R        R        §
Pre-Submittal                                                      152.035
Meeting
Planned                                                            §
Development   H | D   H | R      X               R        R        152.035
Final Plan
Minor         X       A          X               R        R | D    §
Subdivision                                                        151.303
Replat        A       M | D      X               R        R        §
                                                                   151.305
Major
Subdivision                                                        §
Pre-          X       X          X               R        R        151.304
Application
Sketch
Major
Subdivision   A       M | D      X               R        R        §
Preliminary                                                        151.304
Plat
Major                                                              §
Subdivision   M | D   M | R      X               R        R        151.304
Final Plat
Subdivision   X       H | D      X               R        R        §
Variance                                                           151.202
Minor Site    X       X          X               R | D    R | D    §
Plan                                                               152.121
Major Site    X       H | D      X               R        R        §
Plan                                                               152.122
Conditional   X       H | D      X               R        X        §
Use                                                                152.143
Zoning        X       X          H | D           R        X        §
Variance                                                           152.134
Appeal to
Planning      X       X          H | D           R*       X        §
Director                                                           152.133
Decision
Zoning Permit X       X          A               R | D    X        §
                                                                   152.151
 
Public Meeting Required = M             * The Planning Director shall forward
Public Hearing Required = H             all records of their decisions to the
Entity Review & Recommendation Required BZA, including any staff report or
= R                                     summary that provides a history of
Entity To Make Decision = D             actions and decisions made in relation
Hear & Decide Appeal = A                to the appealed action.
No Intervention Necessary = X
 
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.202 VARIANCES, EXCEPTIONS AND WAIVER OF CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Should any exceptional topographic or other physical conditions be
present in any facet of a proposed major or minor subdivision, or site plan,
and should the Planning Commission find that extraordinary and unnecessary
hardship may result from the strict application of these Regulations or that
the purposes of these Regulations may be served to a greater extent by an
alternative proposal, the Commission may approve variances, exceptions, and/or
a waiver of condition(s) provided that they will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety or welfare of other properties.
   (B)   Such variances shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and
purpose of these Regulations, applicable land use plans, and zoning ordinances
where they exist, per §
152.134 of the Village of Archbold Zoning Code.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.203 EXPIRATIONS AND EXTENSIONS.
   Failure to comply with the stated time limitations of these Regulations
shall result in the expiration of the application and associated approvals.
Before expiration, the applicant may provide a letter stating why their project
cannot meet the pre-established timeframe. The applicant is solely responsible
for knowing expiration dates and meeting or extending them in accordance with
these Regulations. The Commission and Planning Director shall have no duty,
obligation, or responsibility to remind or notify the applicant of approaching
expiration dates.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.204 VOIDED APPLICATIONS.
   An application shall become void and have no rights, standing, or status
under these Regulations upon expiration, withdrawal, or disapproval accepted by
the applicant or confirmed by appeal.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.205 RECORDING OF PLAT.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be recorded by the Fulton County Recorder
or have any validity until said plat has received a final approval in the
manner prescribed in these Regulations.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.206 REVISION OF PLAT AFTER APPROVAL.
   No change, modification, or revision shall be made on any plat of a
subdivision after approval has been given by the Village Engineer, and endorsed
in writing on the plat, unless said plat is first resubmitted to the Village
Engineer.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.207 FEES.
   Village Council may establish a schedule of fees, charges, expenses, and
collection procedures for the administration of these Regulations. Until all
applicable fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in full, no action shall
be taken on any application or appeal. The subdivider shall be solely
responsible for the submittal of additional fees to other local agencies having
jurisdiction over proposed improvements including, but not limited to, storm
and drainage improvements, and water and sanitary sewage facilities.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.208 VIOLATIONS.
   Whoever willfully violates any rule or regulation set forth in these
Regulations or fails to comply with any order issued pursuant thereto, shall
forfeit and pay no more than the maximum amount allowed by R.C. § 711.102. This
sum may be recovered with costs in a civil action brought in any court with
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.209 APPEALS.
   Any person who believes that they have been aggrieved by these Regulations
or the actions of the Planning Commission has the right to appeal as allowed by
R.C. § 711.09.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND PROCEDURE
§ 151.301 GENERAL.
   The purpose of this section is to establish the procedure for review and
approval of subdivisions, as authorized under R.C. Chapter 711. The procedure
is intended to provide orderly and expeditious processing of such applications.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.302 STANDARD SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Before any land is subdivided, the owner of the property or their
authorized agent shall apply for and secure approval of the proposed
subdivision in accordance with the following procedures:
      (1)   Minor subdivision (lot split). Minor subdivision applications shall
be processed by the Planning Director and Village Engineer. Minor subdivision
approval requires the submission of a Village of Archbold Minor Subdivision
Application, a survey plat including a legal description of the parcel to be
split, and the legal description of the residual parcel if it is to be
transferred.
      (2)   Major subdivision (platted). Major subdivision applications require
Planning Commission and Village Council approval. The approval process for a
major development includes four principal steps: submit a sketch plan for
review by the Village Engineer; submit a preliminary plat for Commission
approval; submit preliminary construction plans to the Village Engineer and
complete planned improvements; finally, submit a final plat for review by the
Commission and Village Council.
   (B)   In addition to the general procedures described above, the Fulton
County Auditor and the Fulton County Engineer have adopted Conveyance Standards
effective August 24, 2016 (or subsequent amendment thereto). This policy was
adopted pursuant to R.C. § 319.203 and sets forth requirements for all parcel
splits and land transfers. All surveys and legal descriptions shall meet all
the requirements of the Archbold Engineering Standards Manual and the Fulton
County Conveyance Standards.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.303 MINOR SUBDIVISION (LOT SPLIT).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the minor subdivision review process is to
ensure compliance with these Regulations while allowing for the small-scale
subdivision of land without the formalities of platting approval procedure in
circumstances where pre-existing development has substantially resolved issues
concerning the adequacy and integration of street access, fire protection
fixtures, and sewer and water systems.
   (B)   Conditions for minor subdivision approval.
Approval without a plat of a minor subdivision (lot split) may be granted by
the Village Engineer if the proposed division of the tract meets all the
following conditions:
      (1)   The subdivision would result in no more than five lots, with each
subdivided lot being up to, and including, five acres in size, after the
original tract has been completely subdivided.
 
Note
Per R.C. § 711.133, lot splits greater than five acres up to, and including, 20
acres, located along an existing public street and not requiring the opening,
widening, or extension of any street or road shall not qualify as a subdivision
under R.C. § 711.001(B)(1)(a). These splits shall be referred to as "exempted
lot splits" for the purpose of this section and shall not count as a subdivision
from an original tract. Exempted lot splits shall still require engineer
approval set forth in this section.
 
      (2)   Each of the newly created lots are located along an existing public
improved and dedicated street right-of-way, and would not involve the opening,
widening, or extension of any public or private street or road, nor the
integration of any access easement created within the parcel or other means of
access.
      (3)   The subdivision adheres to the standards set by these Regulations
and the applicable zoning regulations, including dimensional requirements,
described in the Village of Archbold Zoning Code.
      (4)   The property has been surveyed, and a survey drawing, legal
description, minor subdivision application, and any other necessary
documentation have been submitted to the Village Engineer.
      (5)   The newly created lot(s) would not create undue hardship on
neighboring properties (e.g., complications that impact existing utility,
access, and drainage easements).
      (6)   Said minor subdivision is in harmony with the Village Thoroughfare
Plan.
   (C)   Minor subdivision procedure. Applicants are strongly encouraged to
meet with the Village Engineer prior to submitting a minor subdivision
application and its associated materials. This meeting may ensure that the
applicant is made aware of the purpose of these Regulations and additional
standards such as those required by other regulations, such as the Village
Zoning Code, Thoroughfare Plan, and floodplain regulations. At this meeting,
the Village Engineer and other village entities may informally assess the
proposed subdivision's adherence to existing regulations and the Comprehensive
Plan. The following must be provided when applying for a minor subdivision (lot
split):
      (1)   A minor subdivision application, available at the Village of
Archbold Engineering Department, shall be filed by the landowner or their
designated representative. The applicant shall include a survey depicting the
lines and dimensions for all proposed lots and bearing the signature and seal
of a professional surveyor registered in the State of Ohio. The application and
survey shall be accompanied by a deed with the legal description, appropriate
fees, and evidence of compliance with these Regulations and other applicable
requirements.
 
Note
The legal description shall be recorded as part of the deed conveyance. The
survey drawing and legal description must conform to the minimum standards for
boundary surveys under OAC 4733-37 and meet the standards of these Regulations
and the Fulton County Land Transfer Policy. Areas within the 100-year
floodplain and within floodways, as determined from flood studies or by scaling
from mapping provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), shall
be delineated.
 
      (2)   After the subdivision proposal has been approved by the necessary
departments with review authority, the conveyance (deed) and a copy of the
survey drawing shall be reviewed by the Village Engineer for its conformity
with these Regulations. Within 14 calendar days, the Village Engineer shall
stamp and sign the legal description within the deed document used for
transfer, "approved; no plat required" if the subdivision in question meets all
requirements as specified in division (B) of this section of these Regulations.
      (3)   The deed shall then be recorded with the Fulton County Recorder,
after which the newly created lot(s) will become a legal lot(s) of record. Lot
split requests shall expire if not recorded within one year following Village
Engineer approval. Incomplete or deficient proposals shall be disapproved, and
the Village Engineer shall notify the subdivider of the reasons for said
disapproval.
   (D)   Parcel additions. A parcel addition occurs when a portion of an
existing lot is split and combined with another existing lot. Parcel additions
fall under the requirements of this section of these Regulations and the
resulting parcel must meet the conditions required for minor subdivision
approval, additionally requiring the following:
      (1)   A completed minor subdivision application, survey drawing, and
legal description shall be submitted to the Village Engineer.
      (2)   The parcel addition shall only be approved if the property
conveyance expressly states an intention to combine the split piece of land
with the adjacent parcel.
   (E)   Exempted lot splits. Exempted lot splits are not considered a minor
subdivision, meaning that they do not count as a subdivision from an original
tract of land. Exempted lot splits shall, however, still meet the requirements
listed in this division (E) and R.C. § 711.133. Exempted lot split requests
shall expire if not recorded within one year following Village Engineer
approval. Incomplete or deficient proposals shall be disapproved, and the
Village Engineer shall notify the subdivider of the reasons for said
disapproval.
      (1)   The sale or exchange of parcel(s) of less than five acres between
adjoining or adjacent lot owners may qualify as exempted lot splits. Such
splits shall be considered exempt given the following circumstances:
         (a)   The proposed exempted lot split, including the remainder of the
original tract, is not contrary to any other applicable regulations, including
but not limited to the requirements found in the Village Zoning Code and the
Village Thoroughfare Plan.
         (b)   Deeds for said exempted lot splits shall include the following
covenant notation prior to approval:
"The herein described x.xx acres shall not constitute an independent building
site separate from the Grantees' adjacent parcel unless approved by the Village
Engineer as such in accordance with applicable Subdivision Regulations."
      (2)   The creation of parcel(s) five acres or more in size may qualify as
exempt lot splits. Such splits shall be considered exempt given the following
circumstances:
         (a)   It can be clearly demonstrated that the parcel(s) has direct
frontage on an existing public road and does not create any new access of
easement.
         (b)   The proposed exempted lot split is not contrary to any other
applicable regulations,
including but not limited to the requirements found in the Village Zoning Code
and the Village Thoroughfare Plan.
         (c)   The proposed exempted lot split shall meet the width-to-depth
ratio prescribed by these regulations.
   (F)   Minor subdivision appeals. An applicant whose minor subdivision
proposal is subject to disapproval may, within 60 calendar days of the date of
disapproval, request in writing an appeal to the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.304 MAJOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the major subdivision review process is to
ensure compliance with these Regulations while promoting the appropriate
development of the village as described in this section.
   (B)   Conditions for major subdivision approval. Any subdivision not meeting
the requirements for minor subdivision approval and/or involving any of the
following shall be subject to the procedures and requirements set forth by
these Regulations for major subdivision approval:
      (1)   Results in the creation of more than five lots, inclusive, after
the tract of record has been completely subdivided.
      (2)   Includes the opening, widening, or extension of a street or
streets.
      (3)   Results in the division or allocation of land as open space for
common use by owners, occupants, or leaseholders.
      (4)   Divides land to create easements for the purpose of extending and/
or maintaining public sewer, water, storm drainage, and/or other public
facilities.
   (C)   Major subdivision procedure.
      (1)   Step 1: Pre-Application & Sketch Plan. 
         (a)   Before preparing and submitting the preliminary plat to the
Planning Commission, the applicant or their engineer shall consult with the
Village Engineer while the proposed plat is in sketch form. The applicant is
required to submit a sketch plan to the Village Engineer, legibly drawn at a
suitable scale and containing the following information:
            1.   The proposed subdivision in relation to existing community
facilities, thoroughfares, and other transportation modes, shopping centers,
manufacturing establishments, residential developments, and existing natural
and manmade features.
            2.   The layout and approximate dimensions (width, depth, length,
area) of streets, lots, and any non-residential sites (commercial,
manufacturing, educational facilities, or recreational uses) within the
proposed subdivision.
            3.   The location of utilities in the proposed subdivision, if
available, or the locations of the nearest sources for water and public
facilities for the disposal of sewage and stormwater management and dedicated
areas.
            4.   The proposed name of the subdivision and proposed street
names, which shall not duplicate or closely approximate the name of any other
subdivision in the county.
            5.   The scale and title of the subdivision, a north arrow, and the
date.
            6.   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the property
owner and developer.
         (b)   After an informal meeting with the developer to discuss the
proposed sketch plan, the Village Engineer shall, in writing, provide
recommendations and commentary regarding the
sketch plan within 30 calendar days from the date the sketch was received.
      (2)   Step 2: Preliminary Plat. Following the submittal and review of the
sketch plan, the subdivider shall apply for preliminary plat approval. To
properly plan for and develop a subdivision, the subdivider or their agent
shall comply with the general principles of design and minimum requirements for
the layout of subdivisions described in these Regulations, and in every case
shall pursue the following procedure:
         (a)   Prepare and submit. The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary
plat of the proposed subdivision. The preliminary plat, in conjunction with any
associated documentation, the preliminary plat application, and its associated
fee(s) (refer to the Village of Archbold Fee Schedule) shall be filed with the
Village Engineer for processing, review, and scheduling. Copies of said
preliminary plat will be disbursed by the Engineer to the applicable
administrative officials governing zoning, building, engineering, public works,
and/or fire, for the review of all items within their jurisdiction.
 
Note
Please refer to §
151.803 of these Regulations for a checklist of required preliminary plat
contents.
 
         (b)   Staff and Planning Commission review. The Planning Commission
shall meet to review the preliminary plat to confirm that it meets the
standards set forth in the Comprehensive Plan, Thoroughfare Plan, Zoning
Ordinance, and these Regulations.
         (c)   Planning Commission decision. 
            1.   Upon receipt of departmental recommendations required under
staff and Planning Commission review, the Commission shall tentatively approve
or disapprove the preliminary plat, or approve it with modifications and note,
in writing, any changes that will be required.
            2.   One copy of the preliminary plat will be returned to the
subdivider with tentative approval or disapproval provided in writing. Similar
copies will be reviewed by the Engineer and applicable review parties. The
approval of the preliminary plat by the Commission is to be considered only as
an approval of the layout, with the understanding that the Village Engineer,
and other applicable departments, may modify any engineering or construction
details proposed by the subdivider, whenever required for the protection of the
public interest.
         (d)   Preliminary plat submission timeline. Preliminary plats shall be
filed at least 20 calendar days prior to the next regularly scheduled Planning
Commission meeting. The preliminary plat shall be considered officially filed
after it is examined by the Commission and is found to be in full compliance
with the formal provisions of these Regulations. The Commission shall act on
the preliminary plat within 45 calendar days after filing unless such time is
extended by agreement with the subdivider or their agent.
         (e)   Preliminary plat expiration.
            1.   A preliminary plat is valid for two years from the date of
approval by the Planning Commission, and it is the responsibility of the
developer to ensure compliance with said timeline. A time extension may be
requested in writing and granted administratively. Preliminary approval shall
confer upon the subdivider the right and guarantee that the general terms and
conditions under which the preliminary approval was granted will not be
affected by any changes and/or amendments to these Regulations within the time
frame described in this section.
            2.   Any preliminary plat that expires preceding an update to the
Subdivision Regulations or Zoning Code is subject to the updated requirements
if/when it is submitted. Preliminary plats that have been approved for a time
extension preceding said updates may meet the requirements of the previously
established regulations.
         (f)   Preliminary plat appeals.
            1.   If the Planning Commission disapproves the application for a
preliminary plat, the applicant may appeal the decision to Village Council
within 30 calendar days of the Commission's decision. The applicant shall file
a written appeal of said decision with the Clerk of the Commission. Upon
receiving the written appeal of the Commission's decision, the Clerk of the
Commission shall transmit the written appeal with all documents and materials
related to the appealed decision or determination to Village Council.
            2.   Village Council shall hold a public hearing to hear the appeal
and shall decide on the appeal. The Clerk of Council shall notify the appellant
in writing of Village Council's decision. A decision or determination shall not
be reversed or modified unless there is competent, material, and substantial
evidence in the record that the decision or determination fails to comply with
either the procedural or substantive requirements of these Regulations.
      (3)   Step 3: Preliminary Construction Plans. 
         (a)   The developer shall submit preliminary construction plans to the
Village Engineer for review and tentative approval prior to the creation and
submittal of detailed construction drawings. The review of said preliminary
plans does not constitute a formal subdivision review. With the submission of
the preliminary plans, the applicant waives any rights to an approval under
R.C. §
711.10 until such time as application is made for preliminary subdivision plat
review and is submitted to the Planning Commission for approval. Construction
plans, at a minimum, shall include street, storm sewer, erosion control, and
detention/retention plans.
 
Note
Please refer to §§
151.701 through
151.712 and the Village of Archbold Engineering Standards Manual for specific
requirements regarding the construction and installation of improvements.
 
         (b)   Construction of planned improvements. Prior to the submission of
a final plat, the applicant's engineer must complete the final design and
construction of planned improvements to a point as agreed upon by the Village
Engineer or furnish a performance guarantee for the ultimate installation of
said improvements. The requirements, approval, and length of term for the
performance guarantee shall be determined by the Village Engineer. Said
improvements must conform to the approved preliminary plat.
      (4)   Step 4: Final Plat.
         (a)   Once the preliminary plat and planned improvements for the
proposed subdivision have been approved, and the construction of planned
improvements have been completed to the point determined by the applicant shall
submit a final plat and its associated application materials for review and
approval by the Planning Commission and Village Council.
 
Note
Please refer to §
151.803 of these Regulations for a checklist of required final plat contents.
 
         (b)   The applicant shall provide at least two original drawings of
the final plat, one electronic copy and one or more hard copies. The material
upon which the drawings are made shall be Mylar or equal and measuring not more
than 24 inches by 36 inches.
         (c)   The final plat, its associated application materials, and fee(s)
(refer to the Village of Archbold Fee Schedule) shall be submitted within two
years after approval of the preliminary plat; otherwise, approval of the
preliminary plat will become null and void unless an extension is granted by
the Commission. The final plat shall have incorporated all changes required by
the Commission in the preliminary plat and construction plan. If no changes are
necessary, the final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat. The final plat
and the supplementary information shall be prepared by a qualified registered
engineer or surveyor.
         (d)   Additional information may be required for final plat approval.
If a zoning change or similar is required, certification from the Village
Planning Director or other responsible review party shall be necessary to
ensure that the change has been approved and is in effect.
         (e)   Planning Commission review.
            1.   An application for approval of the final plat shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission at least 20 calendar days before a
regularly scheduled meeting. The applicant shall submit all fees as applicable
for a final plat prior to the hearing date.
            2.   The final plat application shall be submitted within two years
after approval of the preliminary plat; otherwise, approval of the preliminary
plat will become null and void unless an extension is granted by the Village
Engineer.
            3.   If the final plat, as reviewed by the Planning Commission at a
regularly scheduled meeting, conforms to the provisions of these Regulations
and other applicable rules and requirements, and is consistent with the
preliminary plat with such changes as required by the Commission, and if
satisfactory provision is made regarding site improvements, the Commission
shall provide a written recommendation regarding final plat approval or
disapproval within 30 calendar days following the meeting during which the
final plat is reviewed.
            4.   If the Commission fails to act upon the final plat within 30
calendar days after said meeting, or at a later time as the applicant may agree
to, the plat shall be considered approved.
            5.   Approval of the final plat shall be indicated in writing on
the original drawing by the signature of the Chairman of the Commission.
Reasons for disapproval of a final plat shall be stated in the records of the
Commission.
         (f)   Village Council action.
            1.   Following Planning Commission recommendation for approval, the
final plat shall be reviewed and approved or disapproved by Village Council at
a public meeting. The Commission shall provide its recommendation, in writing,
along with all associated application materials, to the Clerk of Council within
30 calendar days following the receipt of the recommendation.
            2.   If approval is given by Village Council, the plat and any
appropriate documents shall be signed by the Mayor and Clerk of Council upon
passage of the acceptance legislation by Village Council.
            3.   All drawings shall be returned to the Commission after
approval by Village Council. The Commission shall provide written notification
to the applicant of the action by Village Council within ten calendar days
after the public meeting.
         (g)   Statements and signatures to be affixed on the plat. Specific
statements and signatures of approval as described in these Regulations shall
be affixed on the subdivision plat.
 
Note
Please refer to §
151.802 of these Regulations to review the necessary statements and signatures
required to be affixed to the final plat.
 
         (h)   Signing, recordation and transmittal of copies of final plat.
            1.   When a final plat has been approved and all conditions for
approval have been satisfied, the designated representative of the Planning
Commission shall return the original drawing to the applicant.
            2.   The Commission shall, within 60 calendar days of Village
Council approval, submit a copy of the approved plat for processing by the
Village Engineer, Village Council, the Administrator, the Wastewater
Department, and the Water Treatment Department.
            3.   After receiving the original drawing, the applicant shall
secure the necessary signatures from the Fulton County Auditor and file the
final plat with the Fulton County Recorder. The applicant shall supply a copy
of the recorded plat to the Village Engineer.
         (i)   Final plat appeals. Within 60 calendar days following the
receipt of Village Council disapproval of the final plat proposal, the
applicant may file a petition with the Fulton County Court of Common Pleas, per
R.C. § 711.09(C).
         (j)   Final plat amendments and revisions. Procedures and requirements
for changing a final plat previously approved by the Planning Commission
(signed, unsigned, recorded, or unrecorded) shall be specified by the
Commission in keeping with the spirit, intent, and purpose of these
Regulations. Amendment of the preliminary plat, if one was submitted
previously, may be required before or concurrent with amendment of the final
plat. A fee to consider a plat amendment may be required, the amount specified
by the Commission. No change, modification, or revision shall be made in any
plat after approval has been given by the Commission and endorsed in writing on
the plat unless said plat is first resubmitted to the Commission.
         (k)   Final plat expiration. The subdivider shall record the approved
final plat within one year of Village Council approval; otherwise, the final
plat approval shall expire and become void.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.305 REPLATS, VACATIONS AND PARCEL COMBINATIONS.
   (A)   Replats. A replat shall be required for any changes made to any lot
within a previously recorded plat. Any change to streets or lots in a platted
subdivision is subject to the standards of §
151.304 of these Regulations. An updated plat, a copy of the current lot and
street configuration, a replat application and its associated fees, and any
other pertinent information requested by the Village Engineer shall be
submitted. A preliminary plat shall not be required if changes to improvements
or the street configuration are not included in the proposal.
   (B)   Vacations. Proposals of subdivision vacation or abandonments shall
meet the requirements of R.C. §§ 711.17 through 711.39. Provisions for the
subdivision of land for use by utility companies shall be considered based on
the special conditions present in each case.
   (C)   Parcel combinations. A request concerning the combination of whole
existing tax parcels may be pursued through the Fulton County Auditor's Office.
An applicant may complete a Combination Request Form and submit said form
directly to the Auditor.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
PLAT AND SITE DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.401 GENERAL.
   This section shall guide and control the way streets, lots, rights-of-way,
and other easements of a subdivision are arranged within its boundaries. These
design controls shall help ensure the provision of convenient and safe streets,
the creation of usable lots, the provision of space for public utilities, and
the reservation of land for recreational uses. The planning of attractive and
functional neighborhoods shall be promoted, minimizing the undesirable features
of unplanned, haphazard growth. Additionally, this section shall provide
standards applicable to the creation of site plans and un-platted developments.
All detailed design drawings for a subdivision or site plan shall be signed and
stamped by a licensed Ohio Professional Engineer.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.402 LAND SUITABILITY.
   (A)   If the Village Engineer finds that a proposed subdivision is
unsuitable for development due to poor drainage, flood hazard, topography,
inadequate water supply, landslip potential, unstable subsurface conditions due
to underground mining or other reasons, and other such conditions which may
endanger health, life, safety, or property, the subdivision shall not be
approved unless an acceptable solution is provided. If any reviewing agencies
determine that the land should not be developed due to circumstances that
conflict with current rules and regulations, the Planning Commission shall not
approve the subdivision unless adequate methods for solving the problems are
provided by the applicant.
   (B)   In all cases, sites that are located wholly within the 100-year
floodplain will be regarded as not being suitable for subdivision development,
and development shall not be permitted. When only portions of a development
site are located within a 100-year floodplain, areas outside of the 100-year
floodplain may be improved, subdivided, and developed; areas inside the 100-
year floodplain should be set aside as open space or places for leisure
activity. For major subdivisions, a written statement shall be required by the
Planning Commission describing characteristics of the development site, such as
bedrock geology and soils, topography, flood prone areas, existing vegetation,
structures and road networks, visual features, and past and present use of the
site.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.403 CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the requirements established in these Regulations, all
development plans shall be consistent with the following:
   (A)   All applicable elements of the Village of Archbold Municipal Code of
Ordinances.
   (B)   Any regulation of the State or Fulton County Health Department, and/or
appropriate state agencies.
   (C)   The rules of the Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) if the
subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state highway per R.C. §
5511.01.
   (D)   The rules and regulations outlined by the Village of Archbold Water
and Wastewater Departments.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.404 PLAT DESIGN.
   (A)   Subdivision design shall take into consideration the Village
Comprehensive Plan and shall be based on a site analysis. To the greatest
extent feasible, development shall be located to preserve the natural features
of the site, to avoid areas of environmental sensitivity, and to minimize
negative impacts upon and alterations to natural features.
   (B)   The following areas shall be preserved as undeveloped open space, to
the extent consistent with the reasonable utilization of land, and in
accordance with the following state and federal regulations:
      (1)   Unique and/or fragile areas, including wetlands, as may be defined
in the Federal Water Pollution Act, as amended, and in the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency's standards.
      (2)   Land in the floodplain as identified and mapped using the Federal
Emergency Management Agency's Flood Hazard Boundary Maps.
      (3)   Steep slopes more than 15% unless appropriate engineering measures
concerning slope stability, erosion, and resident safety are considered.
      (4)   Habitats of endangered wildlife, as identified on federal and state
lists.
      (5)   Historically and culturally significant structures and sites, as
listed on the National Register of Historical Places.
      (6)   Land located within 300 feet of an existing oil or gas well.
   (C)   Development shall be laid out to avoid adversely affecting groundwater
and aquifer recharge; to reduce cut and fill; to avoid unnecessary impervious
cover; to prevent flooding; to provide adequate access to lots and sites; and
to mitigate adverse effects of noise, odor, traffic, drainage, and utilities on
neighboring properties. The placement of buildings in residential development
shall take into consideration land topography, building height, orientation,
and drainage.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.405 BLOCKS.
   (A)   The street layout of the subdivision shall generally conform to the
Archbold Thoroughfare Plan, which exhibits the most advantageous development of
adjoining areas and the entire neighborhood. Subdivision blocks shall meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions or unless, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, such extension
is not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the
subdivision as existing or the most advantageous future development of adjacent
tracts.
      (2)   Cul-de-sacs of up to 700 linear feet will be approved where
necessitated by topography or where, in the judgment of the Commission, they
are appropriate for the development type.
      (3)   Permanent dead-end streets shall not be permitted.
      (4)   Intersections involving junctions of more than two streets shall be
avoided.
      (5)   Proposed streets shall intersect with one another as nearly at
right angles as topography and other limiting factors of good design permit.
The angle of intersection between any street and an arterial street or
collector street shall not be less than 80 degrees as measured from the
centerline of each street. All other streets shall not intersect at an angle
less than 70 degrees.
      (6)   The minimum tangent roadway centerline distance from an
intersection shall be 75 feet before a horizontal curve may begin.
      (7)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted and recorded half-
width street or alley adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, the other half-
width of such street or alley shall be platted.
      (8)   Alleys or service drives may be platted in commercial and
industrial areas if no other provisions are made for adequate access to parking
and loading spaces. To provide safe access to residential lots located on
freeways, expressways, and arterials, the alleys may be platted in the rear of
such lots or service drives using such means suggested in this section. Alleys
may also be appropriate in traditionally designed neighborhoods that provide
private drives to serve rear-loaded garages.
      (9)   If intended for residential use, lands abutting limited access
highways, arterials, and railroads shall be platted to create attractive lots
for such use by cushioning the impact of heavy traffic on such thoroughfares
and minimizing the interference of traffic. In each specific case, the
subdivider shall take into consideration topography, existing physical
conditions, the character of the existing and contemplated development, and
other pertinent factors that may apply. Additional solutions may also be
considered when a subdivision contains a petroleum or natural gas pipeline, or
other utility easements. The subdivider may accomplish this objective in
several ways, particularly those described as follows:
         (a)   Plat the lots abutting such traffic ways at very generous depths
and provide vehicular access to them by means of either alleys or service
drives in the rear or provide a frontage access road next to the highway.
         (b)   Front the lots on a minor street that parallels the highway,
arterial, or railroad at a
generous lot depth, rather than on the major thoroughfare. Private driveways in
this case would connect with the minor street.
         (c)   Plat a collector street more or less parallel with the highway
or railroad, with a depth of 600 to 1,000 feet, from which loop streets would
extend toward the highway or railroad, the ends of which giving access to the
lots abutting the highway or railroad to the rear.
         (d)   Use landscaping, fencing, mounds, or other appropriate buffers
of sufficient depth and height to mitigate the impacts of abutting major
thoroughfares and railroads.
      (10)   Temporary dead-end streets, due to a phased development schedule,
future planned connection, or other similar reason, shall be permitted where
necessary for the subdivision design provided that a temporary turnaround shall
be constructed when lots front on such temporary dead-end streets. The extra
width, in said case, shall be the same as that required for permanent
turnarounds, provided that such extra width in excess of the street right-of-
way shall be vacated upon the extension of the street.
      (11)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of
lots of appropriate depth. Single tier lots may be permissible to accommodate
stormwater detention areas, common green spaces, etc.
      (12)   The lengths of blocks shall be appropriate for the locality and
the type of development under the direction of the Planning Commission. Blocks
shall not be less than 500 feet nor exceed 1,400 feet.
      (13)   The Commission may require a mid-block crosswalk or pedestrian way
with a minimum of ten feet in width to be constructed across any block that is
over 900 feet in length to provide proper access to schools, recreational
areas, shopping centers, and other facilities.
      (14)   The number of intersecting streets along freeways, expressways,
and arterials shall be held to
a minimum. Wherever practical, blocks along such traffic ways shall be not less
than 1,000 feet in length unless otherwise approved by the Commission.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.406 LOTS.
   The following regulations shall govern the design and layout of lots. The
requirements of this section, including the dimensional requirements listed in
Table 2, shall apply to lots created via both minor subdivision and major
subdivision approval. The following shall apply:
   (A)   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will
provide satisfactory building sites, properly related to the topography and
character of surrounding development.
   (B)   All lots shall conform to or exceed the zoning requirements for the
district in which they are located and the use for which they are intended.
   (C)   Each lot shall front on a public street.
   (D)   All side lot lines shall be at a right angle to street lines and
radial to curved street lines, except where the Planning Commission determines
that a deviation from this rule would provide a better layout.
   (E)   Lots with double frontage shall be avoided except where the Planning
Commission decides that the separation of residential development from arterial
and collector streets is essential.
   (F)   Driveway access to buildings on the lot shall be via a dedicated
public street or a private street meeting the public street standards.
   (G)   The maximum average depth of any lot shall not be greater than 2.5
times its average width.
   (H)   All newly created parcels shall maintain their minimum frontage to the
front yard setback line of the parcel.
Table 2   Dimensional Requirements | Lots
Development Type Minimum Lot Width (Feet) Minimum Lot Area (Square Feet)
Table 2   Dimensional Requirements | Lots
Development Type           Minimum Lot Width (Feet) Minimum Lot Area (Square
                                                    Feet)
R-2
Low Density Residential
Single-Family              80                       10,000
Two & Three Family         120                      7,500
All Other Residential Uses 150                      1 Acre
R-3
Medium Density Residential
Single-Family Attached     25                       N/A
Single-Family Detached     60                       N/A
Two & Three Family         90                       N/A
Multi-Family               120                      N/A
All Other Residential Uses 150                      1 Acre
MH
Manufactured Home Park     N/A                      4 Acres
CBD
Central Business District
Core                       N/A                      N/A
Transition                 N/A                      N/A
Gateway                    50                       N/A
B-2
Highway & General Business 130                      18,000
M-1
Restricted Industrial      200                      1 Acre
M-2
General Industrial         200                      1 Acre
S-1
Special Use                250                      3 Acres
A-1
Agricultural
Residential                150                      1 Acre Per Dwelling
All Other Uses             250                      3 Acres
 
For additional lot information, refer to §§
152.032 and
152.033 of the Archbold Zoning Code.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.407 STREET AND CIRCULATION SYSTEM DESIGN.
   (A)   Access management. The following standards shall guide the arrangement
of street networks to promote proper connectivity:
      (1)   Access points are subject to the standards of the Archbold Access
Management Regulations.
      (2)   Access from all types of subdivisions to arterial and collector
streets shall be provided by streets or driveways serving all lots or
developments within the subdivision.
      (3)   Streets or driveways serving commercial and industrial developments
and their accessory parking areas shall connect with arterial or collector
streets so as not to generate traffic on local or residential streets.
      (4)   Where a subdivision adjoins an arterial street, a marginal access
street shall be designed if the subdivision design is such that residential
lots would require direct vehicular access onto the arterial street.
      (5)   Access points to streets from lots within the subdivision shall not
be located nearer than the standards specified in the Archbold Access
Management Regulations.
      (6)   Driveways for agricultural operations and temporary purposes are
exempt from this section.
   (B)   Right-of-way.
      (1)   Street right-of-way widths shall conform to the following minimums
listed in Table 3:
Table 3   Road Classification | Minimum Right-of-Way Width
FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION MINIMUM RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH
Table 3   Road Classification | Minimum Right-of-Way Width
FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION MINIMUM RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH
ARTERIAL STREETS          100 feet
MAJOR COLLECTOR STREETS   100 feet
MINOR COLLECTOR STREETS   60 feet*†
LOCAL STREETS             60 feet**†
ALLEYS                    30 feet
*100 feet may be required if the street is the continuation of a township or
county road.
**50 feet may be approved upon review by the Village Engineer under
extenuating circumstances.
†Wider right-of-way widths may be required for boulevard streets or streets
with a barrier along the centerline.
 
      (2)   The right-of-way width of a new street that is a continuation of an
existing street shall not be continued at a width less than that of the
existing street.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.408 STREET NAMES.
   The following requirements shall apply to street naming:
   (A)   Both public and private street name signs, as approved by the Village
Engineer and the Planning Commission, shall be erected at all intersections at
the expense of the subdivider.
   (B)   Names of new streets shall not duplicate or nearly duplicate those of
existing or platted streets in the village, irrespective of the use of the
suffix.
   (C)   Sign design shall conform to village requirements.
   (D)   Whenever a new street is constructed along the approximate alignment
or extension of an existing street, its name shall be the same as that of the
existing one.
   (E)   Whenever a street alignment changes direction more than 75 degrees
without a return to the
original alignment within 500 feet, then the name of the street shall be
changed at the point of intersection of the curve. Exemptions from this
requirement may be granted by the Village Engineer.
   (F)   When a cul-de-sac street serves not more than three lots, at the
discretion of the Village Engineer, the name of the intersecting street shall
apply to the cul-de-sac.
   (G)   The Planning Director shall assign addresses, conforming to their
street numbering system, for all public and private streets.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.409 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utility line easements shall be located outside of the road right-of-
way. Utility easements may also be located along the front line or centered on
the rear or side lot line as necessary for utility lines. Such utility
easements shall be of a width specified in the Archbold Engineering Standards
Manual. Easements may also be provided to give every lot access to adjacent
parks or other public grounds, and such easements shall not be less than ten
feet in width.
   (B)   Recommendations regarding the proposed layout of all utility company
easements shall be sought from the utility companies serving the area. It shall
be
the responsibility of the subdivider to submit copies of the preliminary plan
to all appropriate public utility companies.
   (C)   Easements shall be provided for storm drainage purposes. Such
easements shall conform substantially with the lines of any natural water
course, channels, streams, or creeks which traverse the subdivision or for any
new channel which is established to replace an existing natural water course,
channel, stream, or creek. Such easements shall be of sufficient width to
provide adequate area for maintenance consistent with the requirements of the
Archbold Engineering Standards Manual. The plat shall specify the entity or
person responsible for maintenance of stormwater facilities.
   (D)   Whenever possible, the utilities shall be placed underground according
to the standards of the appropriate utility company.
   (E)   The location of mailboxes and similar structures in the right-of-way
of a public or private street shall be constructed so as not to create a hazard
to the public and shall be constructed pursuant to the standards set by the
Ohio Department of Transportation and the United States Postal Service.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.410 NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   In addition to the standards described in these Regulations, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission that
the proposed streets, parcels, blocks, and lot patterns are specifically
adapted to the intended use(s) and consider other uses in the vicinity.
   (B)   Proposed non-residential parcels shall be suitable in area and
dimensions to be complimentary with the types of proposed and existing
residential development.
   (C)   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas from
potential nuisance
caused by a proposed non-residential subdivision, including the provision of
additional depth of parcels backing up on existing or potential residential
development, and provisions for a permanently landscaped buffer strip when
necessary.
   (D)   Blocks intended for non-residential subdivisions shall be designed
specifically for such purposes and shall include adequate provisions for
parking, loading, and delivery services. Such blocks shall not be less than 250
feet in width and not less than 500 feet in length.
   (E)   Lots intended for non-residential uses shall be specifically noted and
designed for such purposes and shall have adequate provisions for off-street
parking, setbacks, and loading and unloading areas per the Archbold Zoning
Code.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 151.501 GENERAL.
   These Regulations shall control the manner in which the road system is
arranged to:
   (A)   Permit the safe, efficient, and orderly movement of traffic in
anticipation of the needs of the present and future population.
   (B)   Have a simple and logical pattern.
   (C)   Discourage through-traffic in the interior of a subdivision.
   (D)   Include some extensions to the boundaries of the development to
provide circulation to existing and future neighborhoods as needed.
   (E)   Respect natural features and topography.
   (F)   Present an attractive streetscape.
   (G)   Meet the requirements described in the Archbold Engineering Standards
Manual.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.502 CONFORMITY TO DEVELOPMENT PLANS AND ZONING.
   The arrangement, character, width, and location of all thoroughfares or
extensions thereof shall conform to the Archbold Thoroughfare Plan.
Thoroughfares not contained in the plan shall conform to the Planning
Commission's recommendation based upon the design standards described in this
section. Such a street or highway must be suitably improved as required by
these Regulations or guaranteed as such with a performance bond.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.503 OFFICIAL STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The design and improvement standards for arterial streets, major
collectors, minor collectors, local streets, cul-de-sacs, and dead-end streets
are contained in the Archbold Engineering Standards Manual and the Archbold
Thoroughfare Plan and are described in this section.
      (2)   The subdivision shall provide, within the boundaries of the
subdivision plat, the necessary right-of-way for the widening, continuance, or
alignment of streets in conformity with the Archbold Thoroughfare Plan.
Thoroughfares not shown in the Archbold Thoroughfare Plan shall conform to the
design standards of these Regulations.
      (3)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, and location of all
streets shall be considered in their relationship to other existing and planned
streets, to topographical conditions, and to public convenience and safety.
   (B)   Alleys.
      (1)   The design and improvement standards for alleys contained in the
Archbold Engineering Standards Manual are the minimum standards for all alleys.
      (2)   Alleys may be permitted as a continuation of an existing dedicated
or platted alley.
      (3)   The minimum pavement width of alleys shall be 16 feet.
   (C)   Arterials.
      (1)   The design and improvement standards for collector streets
contained in the Archbold Engineering Standards Manual are the minimum
standards for all arterial streets.
      (2)   If a standard contained herein conflicts with the Major
Thoroughfare Plan, the Major Thoroughfare Plan shall control.
   (D)   Collector streets.
      (1)   The design and improvement standards for collector streets
contained in the Archbold Engineering Standards Manual are the minimum
standards for all collector streets.
      (2)   If a standard contained herein conflicts with the Major
Thoroughfare Plan, the Major Thoroughfare Plan shall control.
   (E)   Cul-de-sacs, local, and loop-type streets.
      (1)   The design and improvement standards for cul-de-sacs, local, and
loop-type contained in the Archbold Engineering Standards Manual are the
minimum standards for all alleys.
      (2)   The minimum cul-de-sac radius shall be 37 feet from the center to
the edge of pavement in residential subdivisions.
      (3)   The minimum cul-de-sac radius shall be 72 feet from the center to
the edge of pavement in commercial and industrial districts.
   (F)   Dead-end streets. Permanent dead-end streets shall not be permitted.
Temporary dead-end streets may be permitted if the dead-end street is part of a
future street continuation plan and if a temporary turnaround is provided.
   (G)   Half-streets.
      (1)   The dedication of right-of-way for half-streets shall not be
permitted.
      (2)   Where a dedicated or platted half-street exists adjacent to the
tract being subdivided, the other half of the right-of-way shall be platted.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.504 HORIZONTAL ALIGNMENT.
   (A)   The stopping sight distance and the horizontal sight distance shall be
used with the ODOT Location and Design Manual to obtain the minimum radius
allowed between street tangents.
   (B)   The minimum distance between reverse horizontal curves shall be 100
feet for local streets and 200 feet for collector and arterial streets.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.505 VERTICAL ALIGNMENT.
   (A)   The minimum street grade is 0.5%, and the maximum street grade is
3.5%.
   (B)   Pavement and gutter grades shall be established on the intersection
plans or details at the following locations:
      (1)   At the end of all radii.
      (2)   At high and low points within the radii.
      (3)   At the intersection of pavement centerlines.
      (4)   At any point it is necessary to clarify drainage.
   (C)   All changes in grade shall be connected by vertical curves. Vertical
curve lengths shall be 50 feet. Shorter vertical curve lengths may be allowed
for temporary transitions.
   (D)   Streets shall be constructed to allow drainage from the front of the
lots to the curbs. Streets should not be constructed with excessive cut through
the topography that results in steep grades sloping to the curbs.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.506 INTERSECTION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   For general rules regarding street layout, refer to §
151.405: Blocks.
   (B)   At street intersections, the minimum required curb radius is listed in
Table 4 below:
 
Table 4   Road Intersection | Minimum Radius to Back of Curb
INTERSECTION BY CLASSIFICATION MIN. RADIUS TO BACK OF CURB
LOCAL - LOCAL STREETS          30 feet
LOCAL - COLLECTOR STREETS      35 feet
COLLECTOR - COLLECTOR STREETS  40 feet*
COLLECTOR - ARTERIAL STREETS   50 feet*
*Larger radii and/or tapers shall be used at intersections if the number of
truck traffic movements warrant a larger intersection.
 
   (C)   At street intersections, the property line corners shall be rounded by
an arc, the radius of which shall be 20 feet.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.507 STREET WIDTH.
   (A)   The minimum street width for all streets shall be 24 feet measured
from edge to edge of its pavement. The street width may require adjustment if
the new street connects to an existing street with a wider or narrower width.
   (B)   Additional street width for on-street parking shall be ten feet per
side.
   (C)   The minimum street width for streets that require a turn lane, or a
two-way left turn lane shall be 36 feet measured from edge to edge of its
pavement.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.508 STREET SUBGRADE.
   (A)   Subgrade stabilization fabric shall be placed between the pavement
structure and the street
subgrade for all streets except alleys and temporary turnarounds and pavement
transitions.
   (B)   If required by the Village Engineer, a structural geogrid base
reinforcement shall be installed between the pavement structure and the street
subgrade instead of the subgrade stabilization fabric.
   (C)   The Village Engineer may require geotechnical investigations of the
roadway subgrade to determine whether cement or lime stabilization shall be
required. For new roadway construction, geotechnical investigations shall be
required.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.509 STREET STONE AND ASPHALT BASE COURSE.
   Subdivision pavement sections shall include a stone and an asphalt concrete
base per ODOT Items 301 and 304. Subgrade preparation shall conform to the
Archbold Engineering Standards. The minimum thicknesses of stone base and
asphalt concrete base are shown in Table 5:
 
Table 5   Street Pavement | Base Minimum Requirements
STREET TYPE AGGREGATE BASE ODOT ITEM ASPHALT CONCRETE BASE ODOT ITEM
LOCAL       8 inches       304       3 inches              301
COLLECTOR   8 inches       304       4½ inches            301
ARTERIAL    10 inches      304       5 ½ inches           301 or 302
 
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.510 STREET INTERMEDIATE AND SURFACE COURSE.
   Subdivision pavement sections shall include an intermediate and a surface
asphalt course. The minimum thicknesses of intermediate and surface asphalt
concrete layers are shown in Table 6:
 
Table 6   Street Pavement | Surface Minimum Requirements
STREET TYPE ASPHALT CONCRETE INTERMEDIATE ASPHALT CONCRETE SURFACE ODOT ITEM
LOCAL       2 inches                      1 ½ inches              441
COLLECTOR   2 inches                      1 ½ inches              441 or 442
ARTERIAL    2 inches                      1 ½ inches              442
 
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.511 STREET CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   All streets shall be improved with a modified ODOT Type 2 concrete
curb and gutter per the details listed in the Archbold Engineering Standards
Manual.
   (B)   Temporary turnarounds and temporary pavement transitions do not
require curb and gutters.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.512 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Where driveways are required, they shall be constructed in conformance
with the following requirements, as described in the Archbold Engineering
Standards Manual:
      (1)   The Typical Type 2 driveway shall be installed for residential
lots.
      (2)   The Typical Type 1, Type 3, or Type 4 driveway shall be installed
for commercial and industrial lots and for alley approaches.
   (B)   Within the street right-of-way, residential driveways shall be
Portland cement concrete pavement with a thickness of six inches. Commercial,
industrial, and alley driveways shall be Portland cement concrete pavement a
minimum of eight inches within the street right-of-way.
   (C)   The minimum driveway width shall be ten feet.
   (D)   Driveways within the right-of-way shall have a maximum grade of 8%.
Commercial and industrial driveways should have a maximum grade of 4%.
   (E)   Driveways shall be located at least three feet from the side lot line.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.513 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Residential subdivisions. Sidewalks shall be required on one side of
local streets and on both sides of arterial and collector streets in all
residential subdivisions. In certain instances of increased pedestrian traffic
(e.g.: schools, parks, etc.), or where sidewalks already exist on both sides of
the street, the Village Engineer may require deviation from the above stated.
   (B)   Nonresidential subdivisions. Public sidewalks shall be required for
industrial and commercial lots, subject to the approval of the Planning
Commission. Special consideration shall be given to areas where potentially
heavy pedestrian traffic may develop, such as schools, hospitals, churches,
parks, and similar types of uses.
   (C)   Construction standards. All sidewalks shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards contained in the Archbold Engineering Standards
Manual. Concrete sidewalks shall be constructed in conformance with the
Archbold Engineering Standards Manual, described as follows:
      (1)   Concrete sidewalks along arterial streets shall have a minimum
width of five feet.
      (2)   Wider sidewalks may be required along all streets to match wider
existing sidewalk widths and near sites that generate large numbers of
pedestrians.
      (3)   Sidewalks shall be located within the right-of-way, typically one
foot from the right-of-way line, or within a dedicated sidewalk easement.
      (4)   Sidewalks shall have a transverse slope of one-fourth inch per foot
except at driveways where the transverse slope may match the driveway slope.
      (5)   Where the street edge of the sidewalk is less than seven and a half
feet from the back of curb of the street, the first five feet of sidewalk in
each direction from the driveway shall be six inches thick.
      (6)   The longitudinal slope of sidewalks shall not exceed three-fourth
inch per foot.
      (7)   ADA ramps with curb drops shall be provided at all intersections.
      (8)   Sidewalks shall be installed by the village after 75% of the lots
in a plat have been developed. The village shall collect fees as lots are sold
pursuant to an agreement created between the village and the developer prior to
final plat approval.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.514 STREET AND WALKWAY LIGHTING.
   The Planning Commission shall require the subdivider to install streetlights
in accordance with standards and specifications provided by the local electric
utility company in each residential subdivision. Such lights shall be located
at each street intersection within the subdivision and at other locations
deemed necessary by the local electric utility company. Streetlights shall be
designed with appropriate lamps and reflectors to minimize light pollution.
Streetlights and posts may be of the decorative type at the owner's expense.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.515 MONUMENTS AND PINS.
   (A)   Boundary monuments. The surveyor shall set boundary monuments so that,
upon completion of the survey, each corner of the subdivision is physically
marked. The boundary monuments shall be 39 inches long, with ¾-inch reinforcing
iron rods set in the center of a six-by-six by 48 inches concrete encasement.
   (B)   Iron pins. The surveyor shall set iron pins at all lot corners, at the
P.C. and the P.T. of all lot line curves, and at other points as necessary to
establish all lines of the plat. These iron pins shall be 30 inches long, with
¾-inch reinforcing iron rods. Reinforcing rods shall be identified with a
durable marker bearing the surveyor's Ohio registration number and name or
company name.
   (C)   Street monumentation.
      (1)   For local and collector streets, the surveyor shall set monuments
at street intersections, quarter corners, point of beginning and end of curves,
and other locations as determined by the village according to the Archbold
Survey Monument Rod Standard Construction Detail.
      (2)   For arterial streets, the surveyor shall set iron pins in monument
box assemblies at street intersections, quarter corners, point of beginning and
end of curves, and other locations as determined by the village according to
the Archbold Survey Monument Assembly Standard Construction Detail.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.516 CULVERTS AND BRIDGES.
   Culverts and bridges shall meet the following requirements:
   (A)   Where natural drainage channels cross any street right-of-way, the
subdivision shall contain satisfactory bridges or culverts.
   (B)   The length, cover, and capacity of street culverts shall be approved
by the Village Engineer.
   (C)   Depending on existing drainage conditions, head walls and/or rip-rap
may be required as directed by the Village Engineer.
   (D)   The minimum diameter of a culvert pipe shall be 12 inches.
   (E)   The culvert pipe material shall be ASTM C76 concrete pipe or ASTM
D3034 SDR-25/ASTM F679 46 psi PVC pipe.
   (F)   Driveway culverts shall only be allowed to serve the subdivision lots
that front an existing street with existing open ditch roadside drainage.
   (G)   Driveway culverts shall be laid to maintain the grade line of the open
ditch.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.517 STREET AND ALLEY VACATIONS, NARROWING AND CHANGE OF NAME.
   The vacation, narrowing, or name change of streets and alleys in the village
shall follow the standards and procedures outlined in R.C. Chapter 723.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
UTILITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.601 GENERAL.
   Careful thought and consideration shall be given regarding how to best
preserve and enhance existing plant material and other natural features of the
site when designing building sites, roadways, and other improvements. A
professional engineer, licensed in Ohio, shall design any plans for water
supply, and storm and sanitary sewers. Storm drainage improvements shall be
designed in accordance with the Archbold Engineering Standards Manual. Water
supply and sanitary sewers shall be designed in accordance with the 10-State
Standards (GLUMRB) and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.602 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   The subdivision shall be provided with a complete water distribution
system meeting the requirements of the Ohio EPA, the Great Lakes Recommended
Standards for Water Works, and the village.
   (B)   Water supply lines shall be extended across the entire length of all
the streets and shall serve the entire subdivision. The Village Engineer may
allow sections of subdivision streets to be constructed without a water supply
line if adjacent lots can be served from another street, and if circulation
through the water system can be maintained.
   (C)   Each lot shall be provided with a connection to the water distribution
system. For residential lots that are located on the opposite side of the
street from the water main, the subdivider shall install water services to
those lots. For residential lots that are located on the same side of the
street as the water main, the Village of Archbold Water Department shall
install the water services.
   (D)   The following shall also regulate water services in subdivisions:
      (1)   Water service connections shall be sized based upon the water
fixture demand. The minimum size for a water service shall be one inch in
diameter, Type K copper.
      (2)   Residential water services should be installed eight feet west or
north of the center of each lot. Water services may be moved to avoid other
utilities or to align with the building's water service, if known.
      (3)   Water services shall be installed to the street right-of-way line
or to the outside edge of a utility easement that parallels the street right-
of-way, whichever length is greater.
      (4)   Two- and three-family dwelling units shall have a separate water
service installed for each dwelling unit.
      (5)   Water mains should be installed within the street right-of-way and
should be installed approximately three to five feet from the right-of-way
line. Where practical, water mains should be installed on the north or east
side of a subdivision street.
      (6)   Water valves shall be provided at water main intersections and
spaced a maximum of 500 feet apart. Where the water system supplies widely
scattered customers, the maximum spacing between water valves may be increased
to 800 feet if approved by the Village Engineer.
      (7)   The subdivider shall supply a certificate of approval from the
appropriate state agency to the village.
      (8)   Water mains and services shall be designed with a minimum depth of
five feet to the top of the pipe. Water mains and services, if approved by the
Village Engineer, may be designed with a minimum depth of four feet to the top
of pipe for short distances to be constructed over a storm or sanitary sewer
main with adequate clearance.
   (E)   For additional requirements and standards regarding the water supply,
refer to the Archbold Engineering Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.603 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   Each lot shall be provided with a connection to the sanitary sewer
system. Sanitary sewers shall be installed to adequately serve all lots,
including lateral connections to the sanitary sewer mains.
   (B)   The following requirements shall also regulate sanitary sewer
installation:
      (1)   Sanitary sewers shall meet the requirements of the Ohio EPA, the
Great Lakes Recommended Standards for Wastewater Facilities, and the village.
      (2)   Combination sanitary sewers and storm sewers are prohibited.
      (3)   Roof drains, foundation drains, and other clean water connections
to the sanitary sewer are prohibited.
      (4)   Residential sanitary sewer leads should be installed eight feet
east or south of the center of each lot.
      (5)   Sanitary sewer leads shall be installed five feet past the street
right-of-way line, or five feet beyond the outside edge of a utility easement
that parallels the street right-of-way, whichever length is greater.
      (6)   Sanitary sewer leads may connect to a sanitary sewer manhole.
      (7)   Two- and three-family dwelling units shall have a separate sanitary
sewer lead installed for each dwelling unit. These leads may be installed near
the center of each dwelling unit.
      (8)   Sanitary sewer mains should be installed within the street right-
of-way.
      (9)   Sanitary sewer mains should be installed between the curb and the
proposed/future sidewalk.
      (10)   Where practical, sanitary sewer mains should be installed on the
south or west side of a subdivision street.
      (11)   The subdivider shall supply a certificate of approval from the
appropriate state agency to the village.
   (C)   For additional requirements and standards regarding the sanitary
sewers, refer to the Archbold Engineering Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.604 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   A study of the drainage pattern of areas contiguous to development
must be conducted. Stormwater drainage design should begin with the designer
verifying with the Village Engineer the limits of the drainage basin in which
the proposed development is located and the location of the nearest adequate
outlet.
   (B)   The following requirements shall also regulate storm sewer
installation:
      (1)   The minimum size of a storm sewer main shall be 12 inches in
diameter.
      (2)   Provisions shall be made to accommodate runoff from upstream areas
without diversion onto neighboring properties.
      (3)   Tributary flows having a direct effect on the storm drainage of the
proposed site shall be determined and included in the design capacities of the
storm drainage system of the development.
      (4)   A map depicting the drainage patterns of the surrounding basin
shall be submitted with the drainage system design. The map shall show the
limits of the contributing watershed, broken down into areas contributing to
each drainage inlet point.
      (5)   Complete drainage calculations, including detention/retention,
shall be provided for the full planned development. Detention/retention areas
may be constructed in phases; the final stormwater management design shall be
considered in the initial design.
   (C)   Each lot shall be provided with a connection to the storm sewer
system. The following connection requirements shall apply:
      (1)   The minimum size for a storm sewer lead is six inches in diameter.
      (2)   Residential storm sewer leads should be installed at least eight
feet from the east or south property line. Storm sewer leads may be moved to
avoid other utilities, connect a tile from the lot to the storm sewer main, or
to align with the building's storm service, if known.
      (3)   Storm sewer leads shall be installed five feet beyond the street
right-of-way line, or five feet beyond the outside edge of a utility easement
that parallels the street right-of-way, whichever length is greater.
      (4)   Residential storm sewer leads may connect to a catch basin in the
curb and gutter of the street.
      (5)   Storm sewer leads may connect to a storm sewer manhole.
      (6)   Two- and three-family dwelling units shall have a separate storm
sewer lead installed for each dwelling unit.
      (7)   Storm sewer mains should be installed between the curb and the
proposed/future sidewalk. Ohio EPA regulations concerning separation between
storm sewers and watermains shall be met.
      (8)   Where practical, storm sewer mains should be installed on the north
or east side of a subdivision street.
      (9)   As required by the Village Engineer, other storm sewers and
sanitary sewers shall be removed within the street right-of-way or replaced
with new pipe within the street right-of-way.
      (10)   Underdrains shall be installed along the edge of pavements and on
both sides of all streets in the subdivision.
      (11)   The subdivider shall apply for an Ohio EPA NPDES General
Stormwater Permit for Construction Activities and supply a copy of the permit
to the village.
   (D)   For additional requirements and standards regarding the storm sewers,
refer to the Archbold Engineering Standards Manual and Archbold Stormwater
Regulations.
   (E)   Developers may submit stormwater management plans that deviate from
the above standards. These plans may incorporate newer trends and designs that
are contrary to traditional stormwater management practices but provide a more
attractive and effective landscape. The Village Engineer may require additional
information and real-world examples supporting the feasibility of said plan.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.605 FLOOD AREAS AND STORM DRAINAGE DITCHES.
   (A)   All subdivisions shall comply with current village floodplain
regulations and all other applicable local, state, and federal regulations.
Appropriate measures shall be taken to elevate buildings to the required
levels.
   (B)   A proposed subdivision may be denied if access to the subdivision is
periodically blocked by floodwaters.
   (C)   Flood control or storm drainage facilities shall be provided as
follows:
      (1)   Access to flood control or storm drainage ditches and channels
shall be provided by easements of not less than 20 feet in width, located on
one side of the flood control or drainage ditch, channel or similar facilities.
      (2)   Flood control or storm drainage easements containing underground
facilities shall have a minimum width of 20 feet.
      (3)   Whenever a flood control or storm drainage ditch or channel has a
depth of five feet or more, or a bank slope of two feet horizontal to one foot
vertical or steeper, a four-foot-tall masonry wall or a four-foot-tall chain
link fence may be required by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.606 FIRE PROTECTION.
   The following shall regulate fire protection measures:
   (A)   Fire hydrants with control valves meeting the requirements of the
village shall be provided in all subdivisions.
   (B)   Fire hydrants shall be spaced at a maximum of 400 feet apart.
   (C)   Fire hydrants shall be installed at all street intersections, at the
ends of cul-de-sacs, and at the ends of dead-end water mains. Hydrants should
be located near property lines where practical.
   (D)   The minimum size of a water main serving any fire hydrant shall not be
less than eight inches in diameter.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.607 ELECTRIC, GAS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Electric service and communication services shall be provided within
each subdivision. The following requirements shall apply:
      (1)   Electric, communication, and street lighting conduits, cables, and
wires shall be installed underground. When a development is constructed along
an existing street with aerial service lines, such utilities shall be installed
underground from the street to the building.
      (2)   Electric and communication services shall be installed in easements
with a minimum width of ten feet and outside of the street right-of-way.
      (3)   Electric conduits shall be installed crossing under the street near
property lines to carry the electric service from the electric easement on one
side of the street to the other side.
   (B)   Gas mains and service lines may be required where available. The
following gas main and service line requirements shall apply:
      (1)   Gas mains may be installed within the street right-of-way.
      (2)   Where practical, gas mains should be installed on the same side of
the street as sanitary sewer mains and two to four feet from the right-of-way
line.
   (C)   For additional requirements and standards regarding electric, gas, and
communications, refer to the Archbold Engineering Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.608 OVERSIZE AND OFFSITE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Where the village determines that the design and construction of
utilities, pavements, and/or other improvements are integral to the orderly
development of adjacent properties or the development of an efficient,
adequately designed utility or pavement network for service to the area in
which the subdivision is located, the village shall require the developer to
oversize the improvement in design and construction, and/or require the
construction of extensions from improvements to be constructed in the
subdivision, so as to provide service to property beyond the subdivision
boundary.
   (B)   If required by the village, sanitary sewer, and/or water mains shall
be oversized to serve future developments. The cost difference between the
oversized pipe size and the minimum pipe size required shall be paid by the
village. Such costs shall be determined by the Village Engineer.
   (C)   If required by the village, storm sewer mains shall be oversized to
serve future developments. The subdivider shall pay for their portion of the
oversized storm sewer based on the percentage of the area of the subdivision
being served by the storm sewer main compared to the planned total area that
the oversized storm sewer will serve in the future. Such costs shall be
determined by the Village Engineer.
   (D)   If streets or utilities are not available at the boundary of a
proposed subdivision, the subdivider may be required, prior to approval of the
final plat, to obtain the necessary easements or rights-of-way and to construct
and pay for such extensions.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.609 PUBLIC SITES, OPEN SPACE AND RECREATION.
   To the greatest extent possible, the natural features and character of land
must be preserved. Due regard shall be shown for all natural features such as
large trees, natural groves, and similar community assets that will add
attractiveness and value to the property, if preserved. The preservation of
drainage and natural stream channels must be considered by the subdivider, and
the dedication and provision of adequate barriers where appropriate, shall be
required.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.610 SOIL EROSION.
   In the development of a subdivision, the developer shall provide for soil
erosion and sedimentation control. Sediment control shall follow the standards
and specifications in Rainwater and Land Development: Ohio's Standards for
Stormwater Management, Land Development and Urban Stream Protection, Third
Edition (2006) or as later amended, by the Department of Natural Resources,
Division of Soil and Water Conservation. In addition, the subdivider or
developer shall comply with all the applicable requirements for soil erosion
and sedimentation control per the requirements of the Village of Archbold,
Fulton County Soil and Water Conservation District, the Ohio EPA, and all other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
IMPROVEMENT CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.701 GENERAL.
   The following rules establish the minimum requirements for the installation
of improvements in subdivisions within the village. Improvements shall be
designed in accordance with the Archbold Engineering Standards Manual.
Improvements shall be installed under the supervision and inspection of the
Village Engineer.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.702 IMPROVEMENT AND COST INFORMATION.
   (A)   Before the Planning Commission signs the final plat, the subdivider or
developer shall complete, to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer in
accordance with other appropriate agencies, all pavement, sanitary, waterline
and storm drainage improvements, sidewalk, seeding, mulching, monuments,
landscape requirements, and other public improvements, including lot
improvements on individual lots, as described on the approved construction
plans and as certified on the final plat, or, the subdivider or developer shall
insure their completion with a performance guarantee acceptable to the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   All required improvements shall be made by the subdivider or developer
at their expense, and construction cost estimates for various materials and
labor shall be provided. The construction cost estimate shall be in the form of
an executed construction contract with the contractor of those improvements,
or, if not available, the Village Engineer will estimate the construction costs
of the improvements.
   (C)   The subdivider or developer shall dedicate public improvements to the
village, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the dedicated property
and public improvements.
   (D)   The subdivider or developer shall secure approval of the construction
plans from the village and execute a plat license agreement with the village
prior to the start of construction on a form provided by the village.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.703 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE FOR IMPROVEMENTS INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   To guarantee the construction of the required improvements prior to the
approval and recording of the final plat, the subdivider or developer shall be
required to provide a performance guarantee in one or a combination of the
following arrangements:
   (A)   Performance bond or certified check. The subdivider or developer shall
post a bond, executed by a surety company or a certified check equal to the
estimated cost, plus 10% of the required improvements. The Planning Commission
shall approve the guarantee. Said bond or check shall guarantee construction of
the improvements according to the plans and specifications approved by the
village. The term of the bond or check shall not exceed two years. The format
and language will be provided by the village. The Planning Commission may grant
an extension where due cause can be shown.
   (B)   Deposit. The subdivider or developer may make a deposit with the
Financial Director, with a responsible escrow agent, or with a trust company.
The deposit shall be money or negotiable bonds in an amount equal to the
estimated cost, plus 15% of the required improvements. An agreement may be
executed to provide payments to the contractor or the subdivider from the
deposit as the work progresses and as approved by the Planning Commission. The
escrow agreement format and language shall substantially conform to a template
provided by the village.
   (C)   Maintenance bond. Upon completion of the improvements and acceptance
by the village, a maintenance bond for a two-year period commencing with the
village’s final inspection date in an amount of 50% of said improvement cost
shall be provided to the Village Engineer by the subdivider or developer or the
developer's contractor. The maintenance bond format and language shall
substantially conform to a template provided by the village.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.704 TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENTS.
   The applicant shall build and pay for all temporary improvements required by
the Planning Commission and shall maintain those temporary improvements for the
period specified by the Commission. Prior to construction of any temporary
facility or improvement, the subdivider or developer shall file a separate
performance guarantee in an amount equal to the estimated cost of the temporary
facilities, which shall ensure that the temporary facilities will be properly
constructed, maintained, and removed.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.705 TIME EXTENSION.
   If the construction or installation of any improvements or facility, for
which a guarantee has been made by the subdivider or developer in the form of a
performance bond, certified check, or cash deposit, is not completed within two
years from the date of final approval of the plat, the subdivider or developer
may request that the Planning Commission grant an extension of six months
provided that the subdivider or developer can show reasonable cause for said
time extension. The request shall be accompanied by a revised cost estimate of
the construction to be completed and construction completion schedule. The
guarantee shall be extended according to the revised completion schedule.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.706 FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS.
   In case the subdivider or developer fails to complete the required public
improvements within such time period as required by the conditions or
guarantees as outlined above, the Planning Commission may proceed to have such
work completed and reimburse the village for the cost thereof by appropriating
the performance bond, cash deposit, certified check, or by drawing upon the
letter of credit, or shall take the necessary steps to require performance by
the bonding company.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.707 PROGRESSIVE INSTALLATION.
   (A)   After the preliminary construction plans of a proposed subdivision
have been approved by the Planning Commission, the subdivider or developer may
improve a part of the entire area and submit a final plat for that improved
portion to the Commission for approval.
   (B)   Whenever it is deemed necessary by the Planning Commission to defer
the construction of any improvement, the subdivider or developer shall pay his
or her share of the costs of the future improvements to the village, as
determined by the Village Engineer, prior to the signing of the final plat by
the Commission. The subdivider or developer may provide a separate performance
bond or cash deposit for the completion of the deferred improvements upon
demand by the village.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.708 DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may defer or waive, at the time of final plat
approval and subject to appropriate conditions, the provision of any or all
public improvements as, in its judgment, are not contrary to the pursuit of
public health, safety, or welfare, or which are inappropriate because of the
inadequate or nonexistence of connecting facilities. Any determination to defer
or waive the provision of certain public improvements must be expressly made on
the record.
   (B)   Whenever it is deemed necessary by the Planning Commission to defer
the construction of any improvement, the subdivider shall pay his or her share
of the costs of the future improvements, as determined by the Village Engineer,
to the village prior to the signing of the final subdivision plat by the
Planning Commission. The developer may provide a separate performance bond,
cash deposit or irrevocable letter of credit for the completion of the deferred
improvements upon demand of the county.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.709 INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The Village Engineer and any other appropriate agency may provide for
the inspection of required improvements during construction and shall ensure
their satisfactory completion. The subdivider or developer shall pay inspection
fees and shall notify proper administrative officials at least 48 hours prior
to the start of construction. With work requiring periodic inspections, an
inspection schedule shall be agreed upon and finalized by the subdivider or
developer and the village inspectors before any work begins.
   (B)   The Village Engineer shall charge a fee to the subdivider or developer
to cover the cost of reviewing the construction plans, the preliminary and
final plats, and construction inspection and testing.
   (C)   Construction inspection shall be performed by the Village Engineer, or
its designated inspector and the subdivider or developer shall pay an amount
equal to 2% of the estimated cost of construction (including contingencies) of
all improvements to be connected to village utilities, as verified by the
Village Engineer, for the village to provide part-time services.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.710 COMPLETION OF WORK AND REDUCTION OF SECURITY.
   As required improvements are completed, the Planning Commission may reduce
the amount of the performance bond, cash deposit, or irrevocable letter of
credit. The amount released shall be the approved cost of the work completed
less cash reserve/ retainage. Said cash reserve/retainage will be released upon
final acceptance and completion of all improvements and acceptance of
maintenance bonds and all required closeout documents.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.711 ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS FOR PUBLIC USE AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The subdivider or developer shall have properly constructed and
maintained all required improvements at the time they request approval from the
Commission. Upon completion of all improvements, including all punch list
items, maintenance bonds, waivers, and other required closeout documents, the
Village Engineer will perform an inspection for acceptance. After the
inspection, the Village Engineer will do one of the following:
      (1)   Issue a letter to the developer or contractor listing items of work
necessary to accomplish satisfactory completion of the improvements; and/or,
      (2)   Issue a letter to the subdivider or developer accepting the
improvements and releasing the performance guarantee.
   (B)   A maintenance bond shall assure maintenance and repair. The subdivider
or developer shall also remedy impacts (ex: erosion) caused by actions of
utility companies installing utilities for the plat and shall restore all
improvements before the end of the maintenance period.
   (C)   At the end of the maintenance period, after the subdivider or
developer and/or the developer's contractor has restored all improvements to
the acceptable condition, the Village Engineer shall perform a final
inspection. After the inspection, the Village Engineer will do one of the
following:
      (1)   Issue a letter to the subdivider or developer and/or the
developer's contractor releasing the maintenance bond.
      (2)   Issue a letter to the subdivider or developer and/or the
developer's contractor listing items or work necessary to complete before the
release of the maintenance bond.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.712 AS-BUILT PLANS.
   The property owner or developer shall, within 60 days after the completion
of construction, submit one set of electronic plans in CAD and PDF formats
titled "As-Built" to the Village Engineer. The owner or developer's engineer
shall certify the completion of the work is in accordance with the approved
plans. If any changes to the approved plans occur, a list of these deviations
shall be included with the certification.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
APPENDIX
§ 151.801 DEFINITIONS.
801.01 Interpretation of terms.
Certain words used in these Regulations shall be interpreted as follows:
   1   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, corporation, or an individual.
   2    The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular.
   3   The word "shall" is a mandatory require- ment, the word "may" is a
permissive requirement, and the word "should" is a preferred requirement.
   4   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, designed or
arranged to be used or occupied".
   5   The word "lot" includes the words "plot" or "parcel".
801.2 Glossary
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
Annexation: Procedure for placing unincorporated property into a village or
city.
Applicant: Unless otherwise specified, an owner of a property or an agent for
the owner, including a subdivider, developer, attorney, or similar
representative, who has filed an application for development review.
Block: A piece or parcel of land surrounded by public highways, public streets,
streams, or parks, and the like, or a combination thereof.
Building: A structure designed to be used as a place of occupancy, storage, or
shelter.
Central Sewage Treatment: Wastewater treatment provided by county, city,
village, or public utility, including sewers and treatment plants.
Clerk of Council: The Clerk of Council of the Village of Archbold.
Comprehensive Plan: The Comprehensive Plan of the Village of Archbold, Ohio.
The Comprehensive Plan (which may consist of several maps, data, and the like)
or any portion thereof, made, and adopted by the Planning Commission, and which
shows the general location and extent of physical facilities including major
streets and main thoroughfares, parks, schools and other public open spaces,
and public building sites.
County: Fulton County, State of Ohio.
Dedication: The conveyance of private land, either in fee simple or as an
easement, for public use.
Developer: Any individual, subdivider, firm, association, syndicate,
partnership, corporation, trust, or other legal entity commencing proceedings
under these Regulations to subdivide land for themself or another.
Driveway: A private way, other than a street or alley, that provides access to
one lot of record for the use of vehicles and pedestrians.
Easement: A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation, or
persons, of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
Final Plat: The final map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plan of
subdivision is presented to Village Council for approval, and which, if
approved, will be submitted to the Recorder of Fulton County, Ohio.
Grade: The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to a
sign, building, or other structure being measured.
Grading: Earth disturbing activity such as excavation, stripping, cutting,
filling, stockpiling, or any combination thereof.
Improvements: Street pavement, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, waterlines, gas
lines, sewer lines, storm drains, streetlights, electric facilities, flood
control and drainage facilities, utility lines, landscaping, and
other related matters, whether public or private, normally associated with the
development of raw land into building sites.
Lot: A parcel of land intended for transfer of ownership or building
development, having its full frontage subject to the application of these
Regulations.
Lot Types
Buffer Lot: A lot on a plat across the end of a street proposed to be extended
by future platting or a lot along the length of a street where only part of the
width has been dedicated, retained by the owner but conditionally dedicated on
the plat for street purposes when the street is extended or widened.
Corner Lot: A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets. A lot
abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a corner lot if
straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot lines to the
foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
Flag Lot: A lot whose only frontage on a public street is through a narrow
strip of land which is generally wide enough to accommodate a driveway, but too
narrow to accommodate any structures. The narrow strip of land is referred to
as the panhandle.
Interior Lot: A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage on a street.
Reversed Frontage Lot: A reversed frontage lot is a double frontage lot that is
designed to be developed with the rear yard abutting a major street. The
primary means of ingress and egress are provided on a minor street. A reversed
frontage lot may also be a corner lot.
Through Lot: A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than one
street. Through lots abutting two streets may be referred to as double frontage
lots.
Major Subdivision: A division of a parcel of land that requires a record plat
to be approved by Village Council.
Manufactured Home Park: Any site or tract of land under single ownership, upon
which three or more residential manufactured homes are parked, either free of
charge or for revenue purposes. This includes any roadway, building, structure,
vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the facilities of
such park.
Mayor: The Mayor of the Village of Archbold.
Minor Subdivision (Lot Split): A division of a parcel of land that does not
require a record plat to be approved by the Archbold Planning Commission as
specified in R.C. § 711.131.
Monuments: Permanent concrete or iron markers used to establish all lines of
the plat of a subdivision, including all lot corners, and points of change in
street alignment.
Municipality: The Village of Archbold, Fulton County, State of Ohio.
Official Map: The map established by the Archbold Planning Commission, showing
the streets, highways and parks theretofore laid out, adopted and established
by law and any amendments thereto adopted by the Council and the Commission, or
additions thereto resulting from the approval of subdivision plats by the
Planning Commission and the subsequent filing of such approved plats.
Official Thoroughfare Plan: The officially adopted plan designating a system of
principal or major streets for traffic intercommunication.
Open Space: An area open to the sky, which may be on the same lot as a
building. The area may include - along with the natural environmental features
- swimming pools, tennis courts, or any other recreational facilities that the
Planning Commission deems permissive. Streets and structures for habitation
shall not be included.
Owner: Any individual, firm association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust, or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under these Regulations.
Parcel Addition: A portion of land that is split from its parent parcel and
combined with an existing adjacent parcel.
Parking Space, Off-Street: For these Regulations, an off-street parking space
shall be an area adequate for parking an automobile with room for opening doors
on both sides, and with properly related access to a public street or alley and
maneuvering room but shall be located totally outside of any street or alley
right-of-way.
Performance Bond or Surety Bond: An agreement by a subdivider or developer,
adequately secured with the county, for the estimated construction cost,
guaranteeing the completion of physical improvements according to plans and
specifications within the timeframe listed in the subdivider's agreement.
Planned Unit Development (PUD): An area of land in which residences and/or
related commercial and industrial facilities are accommodated in a pre-planned
environment under more flexible lot dimension standards than the restrictions
that would normally apply under these Regulations. The procedure for approval
of such development contains requirements in addition to those of the standard
subdivision, such as building design principles and landscaping plans.
Planning Commission: The Planning Commission for the Village of Archbold; also
referred to as the "Commission".
Planning Director: The Planning Director for the Village of Archbold.
Plat: A map graphically indicating a proposed land subdivision or re-
subdivision prepared in a form suitable for filing for record, with necessary
affidavits, dedications and acceptances, and with  complete bearings and
dimensions of all lines defining lots, blocks, streets, alleys, public areas,
and other dimensions of land.
Preliminary Plan (Plat): The preliminary map, drawing or chart indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision.
Public Hearing: A regular or special meeting open to the public and advertised
in advance in the local printed media or as otherwise required by statute,
concerning proposed ordinances, amendments or other official village business
requiring public participation and input.
Public Meeting: A regular or special meeting of Village Council or the Planning
Commission open for public attendance.
Public Way: An alley, avenue, boulevard, bridge, channel, ditch, easement,
expressway, freeway, highway, land, parkway, right-of-way, road, sidewalk,
street, subway, tunnel, viaduct, walk, or other ways in which the general
public or public entity has a right, or which are dedicated, whether improved
or not.
Replat: A reconfiguration of lots and/or further subdivision of lots in a
recorded plat. It may include all or any part of a previously recorded plat.
Right-of-Way: A strip of land taken or dedicated for public access. In addition
to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips, sidewalks,
lighting, and drainage facilities, and may include special features (required
by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaping,
viaducts, and bridges.
Setback: The distance between the street right-of-way line and the front line
of a building or any projection thereof, excluding uncovered steps.
Sidewalk: The portion of the road right-of-way outside of the roadway which is
improved for the use of pedestrian traffic.
Solicitor: The Solicitor or legal advisor of the Village of Archbold.
Thoroughfares: Alleys, Highways & Streets
Alley or Service Drive: A passage or way affording generally a secondary means
of vehicular access to abutting properties and not intended for general traffic
circulation.
Arterial Highway, Arterial Street, Major Thoroughfare or Major Street: A
principal or heavy traffic street of considerable continuity. Is used primarily
as a traffic artery for intercommunication among large areas. Driveways should
not be permitted access to these thoroughfares.
Collector or Local Street: A street that carries traffic from minor streets to
arterial or major streets, including the principal entrance streets of a
residential development and streets for circulation within such a development.
Cul-De-Sac/Dead-End Street: A minor street with only one outlet.
Marginal Access Street: A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to an
arterial street, and which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
Minor Street: Any street, not a highway, primary, or secondary thoroughfare,
parkway, or local or collector street, and intended to serve and to provide
access exclusively to the properties abutting thereon.
Private Street: A street which has not been duly accepted by the village for
public use.
Public Street: A street which has been dedicated and accepted by the village
for public use.
Street: A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, or
however otherwise designated.
Street Width: The shortest distance between the lines delineating the right-of-
way of a street.
Subdivider: Any individual, firm association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing proceedings under these
Regulations to affect a subdivision of land hereunder for themself or for
another.
Subdivision: The improvements of one or more parcels of land of residential,
commercial or industrial structures or groups of structures involving the
division or allocation of land for the opening, widening or extension of any
street or streets, except private streets serving industrial structures; the
division or allocation of land as open spaces for common use by owners,
occupants or lease holders or as easements for the extension and maintenance of
public sewer, water, storm drainage or other public facilities.
Surveyor: Any person registered to practice professional surveying by the State
Board of Registration as specified in R.C. §
4733.14.
Treasurer: The Treasurer of the Village of Archbold, Ohio.
Variance: A modification of the terms of these Regulations where such variance
will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions
peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a
literal enforcement of these Regulations would result in unnecessary and undue
hardship.
Village: The Village of Archbold, Ohio.
Village Council: The municipal council (legislative authority) of the Village
of Archbold.
Village Engineer: The Engineer of the Village of Archbold.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.802 STATEMENTS AND FORMS.
802.1 Statements to be Affixed to the Final Plat.
The following statements shall be affixed to a final subdivision plat:
   DESCRIPTION
Being a parcel of land situated in the          Quarter, Section      ,
Township           , Range        , Village of Archbold, Township of German,
County of Fulton, Ohio. Containing          acres and being the same tract as
conveyed to                      and described in the deed recorded in Deed
Book           , Fulton County, Ohio, and being more particularly described as
follows:
 
(Legal Description)
 
   OWNER'S CERTIFICATION
I/We, the undersigned                              , the owner(s) of the land
shown on this plat, do hereby assent to and adopt this subdivision and
acknowledge that the same was made at my/our request and do hereby dedicate to
public use streets, alleys, and public areas as shown on the plat. I/We hereby
adopt the subdivision of lots         to       , inclusive, and do hereby
accept this plat.
We further declare that we will improve this subdivision in accordance with the
Improvement Plan as approved by the Village of Archbold, or as amended.
      Owner:                                                       Witness:
                                              
   ACKNOWLEDGMENT
      State of Ohio,
      County of Fulton, ss:
On this        day of                    (Month),         (Year), before me
personally appeared                                                and
acknowledged the signing of this plat to be their free act and deed for the
purposes herein mentioned. Witness my hand and seal the day and year above
written.
      Notary Public in and for Fulton County, Ohio:
                                                             
      My Commission Expires
                                                         (Stamp)
   CERTIFICATE OF SURVEYOR
I do hereby certify that during                       (Month)               
(Year), that this survey shown on the attached plat was prepared under my
supervision and that it and the information, courses, and distances as shown
are correct to the best of my knowledge, subdividing lots number          
through         . Distances are given in feet and decimal parts thereof.
Monuments marked for plat corners are marked by thus                     , and
monuments marked for property corners are marked thus              , have been
set at each change in direction of the boundary of the plat, unless previously
found.
      By:
                                                                          
(Stamp)
      Date:                                      
   PLANNING COMMISSION
We, the Planning Commission of the Village of Archbold, County of Fulton, State
of Ohio, do hereby approve this plat on this            day of
                      (Month),            (Year).
      Planning Commission President:
                                                   
      Planning Commission Secretary:
                                                   
   VILLAGE COUNCIL
This is to certify that this plat was approved and accepted by the Village
Council of the Village of Archbold, Fulton County, Ohio, as per resolution
passed on the           day of                 (Month),                 (Year).
      Mayor:                                                   
      Clerk:                                                    
   AUDITOR
      Certified for transfer this            day of                     
(Month),              (Year).
      Fulton County Auditor:                                               
   RECORDER
Received for record at              o'clock and recorded this          day of
                (Month),          (Year) and recorded in Volume            ,
Page            .
      Fulton County Recorder:                                         
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 151.803 APPLICABLE CHECKLISTS.
803.1 Preliminary Plat Contents Checklist
 
Preliminary Plat General Information
 
   1)   Proposed name of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or closely
approximate the name of any other subdivision in the County.
   2)   Location by section, range, and township.
   3)   Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the owner/subdivider, and
professional engineer and registered surveyor who prepared the plat, and
appropriate registration numbers and seals.
   4)   Date of survey.
   5)   Scale of the plat and north point.
 
Preliminary Plat Graphic Information
 
   1)   Boundary lines and approximate acreage.
   2)   Names of adjacent subdivisions, owners of adjoining parcels of non-
subdivided land, and the location of their boundary lines.
   3)   Locations, widths, and names of existing streets; railroad rights-of-
way; easements; parks; permanent buildings; corporation and township lines; the
location of wooded areas and other significant topographic and natural section
lines; features within 200 feet of the plat.
   4)   Location, names, and width of proposed streets and easements.
   5)   Existing sewers, water lines, culverts and other underground
structures, and power transmission poles and lines within and adjacent to the
tract.
   6)   Existing contours at an interval of not greater than 2 feet if the
slope of the ground is 15 percent or less; and not greater than 5 feet where
the slope is more than 15 percent.
   7)   Location and dimensions of all proposed utility and sewer lines.
   8)   Layout, number, and dimensions of each lot. When a lot is located on a
curved street or when side lot lines are not at 90-degree angles, the width at
the property lines shall be shown.
   9)   Location of buildings and their setback lines with dimensions. Corner
lots and double frontage lots fronting upon a public street must include the
direction each building is facing.
   10)   Parcels of land in acres to be reserved for public use or to be
reserved by covenant from residents of the subdivision.
   11)   A vicinity map at a scale of not less than 2,000 feet to the inch
shall be shown on, or accompany, the preliminary plat. This map shall show all
existing subdivisions, roads, and tract lines and the nearest existing
thoroughfares. It shall also show the most advantageous connections between the
roads in the proposed subdivision and those of the neighboring areas.
 
Preliminary Plat Supplementary Information
 
   1)   Statement of proposed use of lots, including type and number of
residential, commercial, or industrial units.
   2)   Zoning classification(s) of the tract.
   3)   For commercial and industrial development, the location, dimensions,
and approximate grade of proposed parking and loading areas, alleys, pedestrian
walks, streets, and the points of vehicular ingress and egress to the
development.
   4)   Description of proposed covenants and restrictions.
803.2 Final Plat Contents Checklist
 
Final Plat General Information
 
   1)   Name of the subdivision.
   2)   Location by section, range, and town of the subdivision.
   3)   Date of creation.
   4)   North point, scale, and acreage.
   5)   Names and addresses of the subdivider(s) and professional engineer and/
or registered surveyor who prepared the plat, and appropriate registration
numbers and seals.
   6)   Restrictions and covenants which the subdivider intends to impose by
the final plat.
   7)   Certification by a registered surveyor to the effect that the plat
represents a survey made by them and that the monuments shown thereon exist as
located and that all dimensional details are correct.
   8)   Notarized acknowledgment by the owner or owners of the adoption of the
plat, and the dedication of streets and other public areas.
 
Final Plat Graphic Information
 
   1)   Plat boundaries, based on accurate traverse, with angular and lineal
dimensions. All dimensions, both linear and angular shall be determined by an
accurate control survey in the field, which must balance and close within the
limit of 1 to 10,000.
   2)   Bearings and distances to nearest established street lines or other
recognized permanent monuments.
   3)   Radii, internal angles, points of curvatures, tangent bearings, lengths
of arcs, and lengths and bearings of chords of all applicable streets within
the plat area.
   4)   All easements and rights-of-way provided for public services or
utilities.
   5)   All lot numbers and lines with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths. When lots are located on a curve, the lot width at the building
setback line shall be shown.
   6)   Accurate location and description of all monuments and pins.
   7)   Accurate outlines of areas to be dedicated or reserved for public use,
or any area to be reserved for the common use of all property owners. The use
and accurate boundary locations shall be shown for each parcel of land to be
dedicated.
 
Final Plat Supplementary Information
 
   1)   Statement of proposed use of lots, including type and number of
residential, commercial, or industrial units.
   2)   Zoning classification(s) of the tract.
   3)   For commercial and industrial development, the location, dimensions,
and approximate grade of proposed parking and loading areas, alleys, pedestrian
walks, streets, and the points of vehicular ingress and egress to the
development.
(Ord. 2024-16, passed 2-19-2024)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions and Interpretations
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   Intent and purpose
   
152.003   Compliance required
   
152.004   Interpretation and conflict
   
152.005   Relationship to the Comprehensive Plan
   
152.006   Amendment to zoning provisions
   
152.007   Transitional rules
   
152.008   Severability
Districts and Maps
   
152.020   Division into districts
   
152.021   District map adopted
   
152.022   Interpretation of boundary lines
Zoning District Regulations
   
152.030   Permitted and conditional uses
   
152.031   Master use table
   
152.032   Residential - setback, area and height requirements
   
152.033   Non-residential - setback, height and area requirements
   
152.034   Height regulation exceptions
   
152.035   Planned Development District
Development Standards
   
152.040   Minimum landscape requirements
   
152.041   Architectural design standards
   
152.042   Fences and planting screens
   
152.043   Dumpster enclosure
   
152.044   Architectural projections
   
152.045   Special setback requirements
   
152.046   Traffic visibility across corner lots
   
152.047   Off-street parking requirements
   
152.048   Parking spaces required
   
152.049   Special parking provisions
   
152.050   Off-street loading requirements
Supplemental Regulations
   
152.060   Nonconforming uses and structures
   
152.061   Accessory dwelling units
   
152.062   Accessory structures and uses
   
152.063   Adult business establishments
   
152.064   Conversion of existing dwellings
   
152.065   Dish antennas and nonmobile antennas
   
152.066   Garage sales
   
152.067   Home occupations
   
152.068   Medical marijuana cultivators, processors and dispensaries
   
152.069   Open storage and display of material and equipment
   
152.070   Outdoor wood burning furnace
   
152.071   Performance requirements for commercial and industrial uses
   
152.072   Recreational vehicles and equipment
   
152.073   Solar energy generation
   
152.074   Swimming pools
   
152.075   Telecommunication towers
   
152.076   Temporary buildings and storage
   
152.077   Wind energy generation
Demolition of Buildings and Structures
   
152.080   Demolition
Property Maintenance Standards
   
152.090   Residential maintenance responsibilities
   
152.091   Commercial and industrial maintenance responsibilities
Signs
   
152.100   Signs regulated
   
152.101   Sign definitions
   
152.102   Sign general requirements
   
152.103   Sign regulations by type
   
152.104   Setback requirements
   
152.105   Special yard provisions
   
152.106   Illumination
   
152.107   Master sign plan (multi-tenant)
   
152.108   Sign permit required
   
152.109   Sign exemptions
Site Plan Review
   
152.120   Site plan required
   
152.121   Minor site plan review
   
152.122   Major site plan review
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
152.130   Organization
   
152.131   Powers and duties
   
152.132   Hearings and procedures
   
152.133   Appeals to interpretation
   
152.134   Variances
   
152.135   Decision of the Board
Planning Commission
   
152.140   Organization
   
152.141   Powers and duties
   
152.142   Procedures for zoning change
   
152.143   Conditional use
   
152.144   Nonconforming uses
   
152.145   Procedures for hearings
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.150   Zoning Inspector
   
152.151   Zoning permit required
   
152.152   Application and issuance of zoning permit
   
152.153   Flood damage prevention provisions
   
152.154   Fee for development review and zoning permits
   
152.155   Enforcement
   
152.156   Violations; affected parties
Definitions
   
152.170   Definitions
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
§ 152.001 SHORT TITLE.
    This chapter shall be known and cited as the Archbold Zoning Code (Code),
as amended.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
    This chapter is for the purposes of promoting the public health, safety,
comfort, and general welfare; and, to encourage orderly and efficient land use
within Archbold where current and future utilities and public services are
located consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.003 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The regulations set forth by this chapter shall be the minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and
no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered unless in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located except as provided for in §
152.060, Nonconforming Uses.
   (C)   Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this Code.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.004 INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT.
    Provisions of this Code are declared to be the minimum requirements. The
provisions of this Code, in their interpretation and application are adopted
for the protection of the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Highest standard or requirement applies. Where a provision of this
Code varies from another in this Code, the most restrictive requirement or
regulation shall govern. The Zoning Inspector shall determine which Code
provision sets the highest standard.
   (C)   Requirements versus guidelines. The use of the word "shall," "must,"
"required," or similar directive terms, mean provisions of this Code are
mandatory. The use of the word "should," "encouraged," "may," or similar terms,
mean the provisions are recommended.
   (D)   Interpretation by Zoning Inspector. Words, uses and technical
standards shall comply with §
152.170, Definitions.
   (E)   Resolution of conflict. Where a code interpretation may have
significant policy implications, the Zoning Inspector may refer the request
directly to the Board of Zoning Appeals for review and interpretation.
      (1)   A copy of the Board's interpretation shall be transmitted to the
Planning Commission and Council.
      (2)   Interpretations on file. Archbold shall keep on file, in the Zoning
Inspector's office, a record of all code interpretations which shall become the
official interpretation until such time as the zoning code is amended.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.005 RELATIONSHIP TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   This Code implements the Archbold Comprehensive Plan. Except as otherwise
required by applicable state or federal law, all provisions of this Code shall
be construed as in conformity with the Comprehensive Plan, including any
Comprehensive Plan elements, public facility master plans, thoroughfare plans,
future annexations and other future plans as amended
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.006 AMENDMENT TO ZONING PROVISIONS.
   Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare, or good zoning
practices require, the Council may, by ordinance, after receipt of
recommendation thereon from the Planning Commission, and subject to the
procedures provided by law, amend, supplement, or change the regulations,
district boundaries or classification of property, now or hereafter established
by this chapter or amendments thereof. It shall be the duty of the Commission
to submit its recommendations regarding all applications or proposals for
amendments or supplements to the Council.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.007 TRANSITIONAL RULES.
   (A)   Continuation of permits and approvals. Any approval or permit issued
for a building, development or use or property prior to the effective date of
this Zoning Code, shall continue to be valid according to the terms of the
ordinance(s) under which such approval or permit was granted.
      (1)   If such building, development or use of property has not been
completed, it may be completed in conformance with the issued permit and other
applicable permits and conditions.
      (2)   If such building, development or use of property has not been
started or substantially completed at the time that the issued permit expires
it shall become invalid.
   (B)   Pending applications.
      (1)   Any type of land development application which has been officially
filed and accepted as complete with the Zoning Inspector prior to the effective
date of this chapter or any amendment thereto, may continue to be processed
under the zoning rules and regulations in effect at the time the application
was submitted.
      (2)   The application approval process for such applications must be
completed within one year of the filing date.
   (C)   If the application approval process is not completed within one year,
the specified time may be extended by the Board of Zoning Appeals for just
cause or due to delays in approvals due to external agencies; the municipality
or unforeseen disasters.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.008 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section or specific provision of this chapter, or any regulating
district boundary established herein, is found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be unconstitutional, invalid, or otherwise unenforceable for
any reason, such decision shall not affect the validity or enforceability of
the chapter as a whole, or any part thereof, other than the part so declared to
be unconstitutional, invalid, or otherwise unenforceable. All other sections
and provisions within this Code shall not be affected.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
DISTRICTS AND MAPS
§ 152.020 DIVISION INTO DISTRICTS.
   The municipality is hereby divided into zoning districts under five general
land use categories, which shall be known as: Agriculture, Civic and
Institutional, Residential, Commercial (Business) and Industrial.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.021 DISTRICT MAP ADOPTED.
   The Official Zoning District Map shall be the final authority as to the
current zoning status of land and water area, buildings, and other structures.
   (A)   Boundaries of zoning districts, official map. The district map and
other information shown thereon are adopted as part of this Code.
   (B)   Effective date of amendments. Amendments to the Official Zoning
District Map shall become effective after final adoption of the chapter. No
changes of any nature shall be made to the official zoning map or matter shown
thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this Code.
   (C)   Zoning upon annexation. All territory hereafter annexed into the
municipality shall automatically be zoned as the district, which represents its
intended use. Owners of the proposed annexed property shall recommend
appropriate zoning classification before final acceptance by Council of the
area to be annexed. A 30-day public hearing notice prior to Council approval of
a proposed annexation will be sent to Planning Commission and property owners
within 200 feet of the proposed annexation.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.022 INTERPRETATION OF BOUNDARY LINES.
   (A)   The district boundary lines on the map, shall follow centerlines of
thoroughfares, railroads, or lot lines. In the case of unsubdivided property,
the district boundary lines will be determined using the scale appearing on the
zoning district map or by property lot lines and dimensions.
   (B)   Whenever any street, alley, or other public right-of-way is vacated by
official action of Council, the zoning district adjoining each side of such
street, alley, or public right-of-way shall be automatically extended to the
center of such vacation.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 152.030 PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES.
   The permitted and conditional uses for each district are shown in the master
use table, the interpretation of uses provided in the § 152.031 shall be as
defined in § 152.170, Definitions.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.031 MASTER USE TABLE.
Zoning Uses Residential Districts Non-Residential Districts
            R2 R3 MH              CBD B-2 M-1 M-2 S-1 A-1
Zoning Uses                     Residential Districts Non-Residential Districts
                                R2 R3 MH              CBD B-2 M-1 M-2 S-1 A-1
A. Residential Uses
Single-Family Dwelling          P  P                                      P
Single-Family Dwelling,            P                  P
Attached (Townhome)
Two and Three-Family Dwelling   C  P                  P
Mixed Use - Residential                               P   C
Multi-Family Residential           C                  P   C
Accessory Dwelling Unit         P  P                  C   C   C           P
Manufactured Home                     P
Manufactured Home Park                P
Mobile Home                           P
Group Home                      C  C                  C
Residential Care Facility          C                                  P
Home Occupation                 P  P                  P   C               P
Tourist Home (Vacation Rental)     P                  P   C
B. Public and Institutional Uses
Airport, public                                                       C
Cemetery                        C                                     C
Club                                                  C   P
Community Services                 C                  P   P           P
Community Gardens               P  P  P               C   C           P
Cultural Center                                       P   P           P   C
Daycare Center                     C                  P   P           C
Emergency Services              P                     C   P   P   P   P
Essential Services              P  P  P               P   P   P   P   P   P
Hospital                                                  P           P
Non-Commercial Recreational     C  C                                  P
Facility
Parks and Open Space            P                     P   P           P   P
Public Services Facility        C                     C   C   P   P   C   P
House of Worship                   C                                  P
School, Preschool-Kindergarten- P  P                  C   C           P   P
Secondary
School, College or Vocational                         C   P   C   C   P
Solar Energy Generation, Solar                                        P   C
Farm
Wind Energy Generation, Large                                         P   C
Scale
C. Commercial Uses
Adult Business Establishment                                      C
Animal Grooming and Boarding                          C   P               P
Craft Manufacturing with Retail                       C   P               C
Sales
Automotive Sales and Repair                               P   P   C
Bed and Breakfast Inn              C                  P   P
Business Services                                         P   P       P
Commercial Entertainment                                  C
Facility
Commercial Recreation Facility                            C   P           C
Commercial or Public Parking                          C   P   P   P   P
Lot
Drive-Through Service                                 C   P   P
Gas Station, Service Station                              P   P
Hotels and Motels                                     C   P
Heavy Equipment Sales and                                 C   P   P
Service
Medical Office/Clinic                                     P   P
Mortuary                                              P   P
Personal Services                                     P   P
Professional and Administrative                       P   P   C       P
Offices
Restaurants and Bars                                  P   P   C
Retail Sales                                          P   P   C
Self-Service Storage,                                             C
Commercial
Small box retail                                          C
Specialty Foods and Bakeries,                         P   P               C
Retail
Veterinary Clinic                                         P   P           C
D. Industrial and Employment Uses
Agriculture                                                               P
Auction Yard                                                  P   P       C
Construction Supplies, Sales                              C   P   P
and Storage
Cryptocurrency Mining                                         C   C
Food Processing                                               C   P       C
Manufacturing, Restricted                                     P   P
Manufacturing, General                                            P
Plant Cultivation                                                 C   C   P
Research and Testing                                          P   P
Transportation, Terminals, and                                    P
Storage
E. Accessory Uses
Accessory Uses, Incidental to   P  P  P               P   P   P   P       P
Use
Outdoor Wood Burning Furnace                                              C
Solar Energy Generation,        P  P  P               P   P   P   P   P   P
Accessory
Telecommunication Towers                                  C   C   C   C   C
Wind Energy Generation,         P  C                          P   P   P   P
Accessory
 
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022; Am. Ord. 2023-57, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 152.032 RESIDENTIAL - SETBACK, AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   "R-2" Low Density Residential. For relatively low-density residential
development which has public water and sewer available.
 
"R-2" SETBACK, AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
R-2       Minimum per Lot (feet) Maximu m Minimum Setback (feet)   Maximu m
Type      Width Area per  Area   Lot      Front Rear Either Sum of Height
                Dwellin g        Coverage            Side   Sides
Single-   80    10,000    N/A    60%      30    30   10     25     35
Family
Two and
Three-    120   7,500     N/A    65%      30    30   10     25     35
Family
All Other 150   N/A       1 acre 65%      40    40   30     60     45
Uses
 
 
MINIMUM FLOOR AREA DWELLING UNIT (SQUARE FEET)
    Single-Family Two and Three-Family Dwelling Units
R-2               1-Bedroom 2-Bedroom 3+ Bedrooms
    1,000         650       800       1,000
 
   (B)   "R-3" Medium Density Residential. For medium density residential
development which has ready access to most community facilities. Public water
and sewer facilities are required.
"R-3" SETBACK, AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
R-3  Minimum per Lot      Maximu m Minimum Setback (feet)
     (feet)               Lot                                      Maximu m
Type Width Area per  Area Coverage Front * Rear Either Side Sum of Height
           Dwellin g                                        Sides
"R-3" SETBACK, AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
R-3       Minimum per Lot (feet) Maximu m Minimum Setback (feet)     Maximu m
Type      Width Area per  Area   Lot      Front * Rear Either Sum of Height
                Dwellin g        Coverage              Side   Sides
Single-
Family -  25    2,500     N/A    70%      30      15   0      0      35
Attached
Single-
Family    60    7,500     N/A    60%      30      25   6      15     35
Detached
Two-
Three-    90    5,500     N/A    65%      30      25   10     25     35
Family
Multi-    120   4,000     N/A    70%      30      25   15     30     45
Family
All Other 150   N/A       1 acre 65%      30      40   20     40     45
Uses
* In existing neighborhoods where front setbacks are less than 30 feet on
both sides the proposed building should be no closer than the setback average
within a 100-foot range on either side.
 
 
MINIMUM FLOOR AREA DWELLING UNIT (SQUARE FEET)
    Single-Family Two and Three-Family Dwelling Units
R-3               Studio 1-Bedroom 2-Bedroom 3+ Bedrooms
    1,000         400    650       800       1,000
 
   (C)   "MH" Manufactured Home Park. The MH Manufactured Home Park District is
established to define areas suitable for the placement of manufactured housing
and mobile homes in an organized cluster development.
 
"MH" SETBACK, AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
                Minimum per Lot  Minimum per Unit (feet)
   Minimum Park (feet)                                                 Maximu m
MH Area                                    Separation    Separation    Height
                Area  Width      Unit Size from Property Between Units
                                           Line
   4 acres      3,000 40         320 sf    50            30            14
 
      (1)   Except as permitted in §
152.061, no manufactured home less than 22 feet in width, trailer, or similar
portable residential structure, whether left to remain on wheels or set on a
fixed foundation, shall be permitted for habitation in the municipality, except
in a manufactured home park.
      (2)   A manufactured home park shall contain a minimum of four acres and
have a minimum of 250 feet frontage.
      (3)   Shall provide public water and public sanitary sewer. Storm water
drainage and/or retention shall also be provided, as directed by the Municipal
Engineer.
      (4)   All manufactured home spaces shall abut upon a paved surface
driveway of not less than 20 feet in width, which shall have unobstructed
access to a private or public street.
      (5)   Recreation area required. A safe, usable, developed recreation area
shall be located in each manufactured home park and shall not be less than 10%
of the gross area of the tract.
      (6)   All manufactured home parks shall comply with Chapter 4781 of the
Ohio Revised Code and any other applicable local, state, and federal rules and
regulations codes and regulations.
      (7)   Manufactured home parks shall be effectively screened on all sides
by means of walls or fences except where the area is sufficiently removed from
other urban uses. Walls or fences shall be a minimum of six feet in height. In
lieu of such wall or fence, a strip of land not less than ten feet in width and
planted and maintained with a hedge or dense plantings not less than four feet
in height may be substituted.
      (8)   All manufactured homes must be properly skirted with vinyl, metal,
concrete, or other similar material.
      (9)   Each manufactured home park must be managed by an operator licensed
in accordance with Chapter 4781 of Ohio Revised Code. The operator must
establish rules governing the operation and maintenance of the manufactured
home park and assume responsibility for enforcement of those rules. These rules
must be conspicuously posted or provided to each occupant as they initially
enter the park.
      (10)   All new mobile or manufactured homes placed in a manufactured home
park shall be required to obtain a zoning permit.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.033 NON-RESIDENTIAL - SETBACK, HEIGHT AND AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   "CBD" Central Business District. The CBD District accommodates a mix
of commercial services, retail, entertainment, civic and residential uses which
may be mixed vertically or horizontally. Commercial uses that create foot
traffic and activity in the core are prioritized.
      (1)   Single-family residential within the CBD Core existing prior to the
adoption of this Code may continue as a legal nonconforming use or structure
subject to the R-3 Zoning District regulations.
 
"CBD" SETBACK, AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
           Minimum per Lot                    Minimum Setback (feet)
           (feet)           Maximu m Front                           Maximu m
CBD                         Lot      Build to         Either Sum of  Height
Location   Width     AreaCoverage Zone        ReSide   Both
                                                             Sides
Core          N   N/A 100%     0-10     0       0      0       45
Transition    N   N/A 85%      5-15     10      0      0       45
Gateway
(Striker   50        N/A 60%      10-30    10      5      15      45
Street)
 
   CBD SETBACK MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/52725326b13d207db8f79c50ff9a044526be2f85/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2359.png]
 
 
MINIMUM FLOOR AREA DWELLING UNIT (SQUARE FEET)
    Single-Family Two and Three-Family and Multi-Family Dwelling Units
CBD               Studio 1-Bedroom 2-Bedroom 3+ Bedrooms
    900           400    600       800       900
 
 
CBD - NEW CONSTRUCTION COMMERCIAL DESIGN STANDARDS
Minimum 1st Floor Height                  14 feet
Ground Floor Façade Transparency         60%
Minimum Building Frontage within Build to 50%
Zone
a.   Along N. Defiance Street within the CBD a minimum of 50% must be
located at 0' Build to Line
b.   New construction in the CBD shall be compatible with the massing, size
and scale of existing structures and architectural features.
 
   (B)   "B-2" Highway and General Business. Areas along major highways or
thoroughfares which provide sales and services oriented to highway travelers;
or general businesses including sale and services for automotive, general
commercial, office uses, personal services and the like.
 
"B-2" SETBACK, AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
    Minimum per Lot              Minimum Setback (feet)
    (feet)           Maximum Lot                               Maximu m Height
B-2 Width    Area Coverage    Front Rear Side Side Adjacent
                                                 to R.O.W.
    130   18,000     65%         30    20   10   20            45
Note: Development closer to the right-of-way encouraged.
 
   (C)   "M-1" Restricted Industrial. For areas that contain heavy commercial
and light industrial uses with restricted manufacturing operations, research
facilities and offices that have limited to no impact on adjacent areas and
contribute to job creation.
 
"M-1" SETBACK, AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
    Minimum per Lot (feet) Maximum Lot Minimum Setback (feet) Maximum Height
M-1 Width    Area       Coverage    Front Rear Sides
    200   1 acre           65%         50    40   30          45
 
   (D)   "M-2" General Industrial. For areas that generate employment
opportunities but may be incompatible with residential and commercial uses and
require access to transportation networks.
 
"M-2" SETBACK, AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
    Minimum per Lot (feet) Maximum Lot Minimum Setback (feet) Maximum Height
M-2 Width    Area       Coverage    Front Rear Sides
    200   1 acre           65%         50    40   30          45
 
   (E)   "S-1" Special Use. The Special Use (S-1) district is for areas, which
are large public or semipublic uses that are not for profit or public
facilities that provide services to the general community or are assets to the
community. These uses include, religious and civic uses, cultural facilities,
parks and open space, and public utilities and services.
 
"S-1" SETBACK, AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
    Minimum per Lot              Minimum Setback (feet)
    (feet)           Maximum Lot                                    Maximum
S-1 Width    Area Coverage    Front Rear Either Side Sum of Both Height
                                                        Sides
    250   3 acres    50%         60    60   40          90          45
 
   (F)   "A-1" Agricultural.
 
"A-1" SETBACK, AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
            Minimum Lot          Maximum  Minimum Setback (feet)        Maximum
A-1         Lot Width Lot Area   Lot      Front Rear Either Sum of Both Height
                                 Coverage            Side   Sides
Residential 150       1 acre per 40%      60    60   25     60          35
                      dwelling
All Other   250       3 acres    30%      60    60   50     100         45
Uses
 
 
MINIMUM FLOOR AREA PER UNIT (SQUARE FEET)
Single-Family Residential 900
 
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.034 HEIGHT REGULATION EXCEPTIONS.
   The height regulations prescribed herein under § 152.032 and § 152.033
Residential and Non-Residential Basic Setback, Area, and Height Requirements,
shall not apply to telecommunication and transmission towers, belfries,
monuments, water and fire towers, cooling towers, ornamental towers and spires,
chimneys, elevator bulkheads, flagpoles and roof appurtenances designed to hide
rooftop mechanical equipment.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.035 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The Planned Development (PD) District is intended to
encourage innovative land planning and site design concepts that support
quality of life, economic development, and ingenuity as an alternative to
conventional zoning. The PD District provisions are intended to:
      (1)   Encourage superior and imaginative design and function in
developments.
      (2)   Provide greater flexibility that integrates development of
residential and/or non- residential land uses allowing for more efficient use
of lands.
      (3)   Allow alternative development patterns that respects wetlands,
floodplains, forests and other uniquely sensitive or challenged lands.
      (4)   Promotes quality design that respects surrounding established land
uses and character and respects and takes advantage of a site's natural and
manufactured features including historic sites, agriculture, and waterways.
      (5)   Encourage the provision of usable common open space and natural
amenities
      (6)   Enable greater review of design characteristics to ensure that the
development project is properly integrated into with adjacent development.
   (B)   Permitted uses. In addition to zoning districts established elsewhere
in this code, a Planned Development District shall be established and
designated on the zoning map, upon approval by Council. There are no
specifically prescribed uses which are permitted within the boundaries of a
Planned Development. The developer shall be responsible for preparation of a
list of permitted uses within the specific PD District to be considered as part
of the zoning application. Planned Development District permitted uses shall be
compatible with surrounding zoning district and uses.
   (C)   Prohibited uses. Uses expressly prohibited as part of any PD District
are as follows:
      (1)   Adult business establishments;
      (2)   Manufactured home;
      (3)   Manufactured home park.
   (D)   General requirements. The PD District designation may be applied
within any existing zoning district with the limitations described herein:
      (1)   The proposed PD shall be designed to provide for the unified
development of the area in accordance with the spirit and purpose of the
Comprehensive Plan and the land uses and zoning districts adjacent to said
proposal.
      (2)   Minimum design and construction standards for streets and alleys
shall meet the requirements adopted in the subdivision regulations or other
policies on record.
      (3)   PD District containing commercial or industrial land uses must
provide a statement of compliance with §
152.072, Performance Requirements for Commercial and Industrial Uses.
      (4)   The basis for review and approval of a PD application shall be the
PD Narrative and Development Master Plan Map (Development Plan), which shall be
adopted as a part of the ordinance for rezoning in conformance with the
requirements described in the regulations.
   (E)   Development standards. The following standards represent broad
parameters under which all PD developments must comply:
      (1)   Development layout and design. The design and layout of all planned
developments shall display excellence in design by carefully considering
significant and sensitive site features, such as topography, natural drainage
patterns, roadway access and circulation, surrounding land uses, and general
public welfare to result in desirable land development. Council may require
landscaped buffers to screen site features.
      (2)   Front, side, and rear setback standards for perimeter lots. All
lots located along the perimeter of the PD shall have minimum front, side, and
rear setbacks equal to those that would normally be specified in the zoning
district prevailing at the time of application for PD approval.
      (3)   Off-street parking and loading facilities. For all land uses
located within the PD, the parking and loading standards in § 152.050 shall
apply.
      (4)   Multi-modal connectivity. There shall be internal and external
pedestrian and bicycle connectivity, which may include sidewalks, multi-use
paths, striped bicycle lanes and the like.
   (F)   Residential and Mixed Use (PD) development standards. In addition to
the general development standards described in division (D) above, PDs with a
residential component shall meet the following development standards:
      (1)   Clustering residential development. Clustering residential density
is encouraged to provide required common open space and protect the natural
landscape.
         (a)   To achieve a clustering of residential development and to
provide the required common open space, the lot area, width, and setback
requirements for residential lots need to accommodate a variety of structural
patterns, clustering designs, and housing types.
         (b)   Perimeter lots fronting rights-of-way or adjacent development,
shall be similar in size and scale to provide for visual compatibility of
development(s) and transition area(s) into the PD District.
      (2)   Residential dwelling types. Along with clustering residential
development density, a PD may include a mixture of dwelling types, including
single-family detached, two-family, zero lot-line, and multi-family dwelling
units, provided the maximum heights defined do not exceed the adjacent zoning
district and provide a stepped transition in height when adjacent to existing
development.
      (3)   Connecting to adjacent development. Where there are existing roads
and sidewalks adjacent to a PD District the development shall connect to the
existing roadway and sidewalk network.
      (4)   Required open space. A minimum of 20% of the land developed for
residential purposes in a residential or mixed-use PD shall be developed to
provide for usable common open space and recreation. This required amount of
common space shall be under one ownership, and provisions shall be established
for maintenance and care. The legal articles relating to any organization of
property owners in the development charged with such open space maintenance
shall be submitted to the municipality. Council may require as a condition of
final approval, any evidence deemed necessary to document that the required
common space will remain in its stated condition as long as the development
exists.
   (G)   Planned development district approval process. The PD Narrative and
Development Plan shall serve as the basis for review and approval of all site
plans, subdivision plats and permits within the PD District.
      (1)   Pre-submittal meeting. Prior to submitting a PD application, the
applicant shall meet with the Zoning Inspector and Engineer to review the
existing zoning classification, proposed development pattern, compatibility of
the development with adjacent uses and procedures for establishment of a PD
District.
      (2)   Master plan and rezoning application procedures. The application
accompanied by the Narrative and Development Plan shall be processed as a zone
change in accordance with §
152.142. The applicant may process the site plan or subdivision plat, if
applicable, concurrently.
      (3)   Submittal requirements. In addition to the items required for any
concurrent applications, the following shall be included as part of the
narrative and development plan:
         (a)   The name of the project, location map, developer, engineer, and
existing zoning.
         (b)   A list of permitted conditionally permitted, and accessory uses
allowed in each area of the development.
         (c)   A copy of proposed deed restrictions.
         (d)   A survey and legal description of the proposed development site,
showing dimensions and bearings of the property lines; area in acres,
topography, and existing features of the development site, including major
wooded areas, streets, easements, utility lines, and existing land uses.
         (e)   The location, general dimensions, setback requirements and
building types for the proposed development.
         (f)   Conceptual drawings of sewer and water facilities, as well as
street and drainage systems.
         (g)   A table indicating acreage devoted to various development types.
         (h)   Conceptual landscaping plan for all buffers and other common
areas.
         (i)   Architectural guidelines to apply throughout the development.
         (j)   A traffic, bicycle and pedestrian circulation plan shall show
the location and design of all entrances and exits to the site, circulation
drives, and parking areas, showing the number of proposed parking spaces.
         (k)   Additional reasonable requirements concerning protection of
adjacent properties, ingress-egress control, setback requirements lighting,
signs, traffic counts, and drives may be set by the Planning Commission or
Council.
         (l)   A description of the expected timing of the development.
         (m)   A traffic impact study, economic impact analysis, environmental
review or other relevant studies may also be required at the discretion of the
municipal Engineer
   (H)   Review and approval of Planned Development District. Application for
approval of a planned development, together with the submittal requirements,
shall be in accordance with §
152.142, Procedures for Zone Change and §
152.121, Major Site Plan Review. Final consideration of rejection or approval
of a PD District by Council shall include the Planning Commission's
recommendation and shall require a majority of the full membership of Council.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 152.040 MINIMUM LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential landscape requirements. Residential lots 4,000 square feet
or larger shall contain a minimum of 10% gross landscape area.
   (B)   Screening abutting residential. For non-residential uses abutting a
residential use screening, shall be provided, and maintained in good condition
as a precondition to any and every non- residential use of such abutting
property.
      (1)   Landscape material used for screening shall be installed so that
within three years it shall mature to a minimum of five feet.
      (2)   Opaque fencing or walls may be used in lieu of landscape screening
at a minimum height of five feet using decorative or compatible materials.
   (C)   Non-residential landscape requirements.
      (1)   Ten-foot minimum landscape strip shall be provided adjacent to all
rights-of-way.
         (a)   Shade trees shall be planted within the landscape strip along
major streets and highways and shall be spaced no less than 40 feet apart.
         (b)   Tree species and planting specifications shall be in accordance
with § 151.205 of the Subdivision Regulations, Street Trees.
         (c)   In lieu of the ten-foot landscape strip other landscape and
hardscape requirements may be substituted in the CBD as part of an approved
site plan.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum five- foot side and rear landscape area
from the property line, which shall be curbed if adjacent to paved areas or
used as stormwater retention or detention with approval of the Engineer.
      (3)   A minimum five-foot landscape area, planted with decorative trees,
shrubs, flowers, or other plant materials shall be planted adjacent to all
buildings.
   (D)   Landscaping shall be installed along the perimeter of stormwater
retention and detention areas and shall use native plants that perform well in
moist environments to create natural a littoral edge.
      (1)   Parking lots. A minimum of 6% of all parking lots shall be
landscaped.
      (2)   Trees.
         (a)   For parking lots containing 18 or more parking spaces a tree
island, the length of adjacent parking spaces, shall be provided at no less
than ten parking stall intervals.
         (b)   Parking lot trees shall be shade tree species to diminish heat
island effects.
      (3)   Screening and landscaping. Off-street parking areas for more than
five vehicles shall be effectively screened on each side which adjoins premises
situated in any "R" District, or institutional premises, by a fence or hedge as
determined by the Zoning Inspector (due consideration shall be given to
adjacent property owners).
   (E)   All trees shall be a minimum of eight feet tall and two and a half
inch caliper at time of planting.
   (F)   A zoning permit shall not be issued without an approved landscape
plan, where required.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.041 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Buildings with blank wall surfaces abutting rights-of-way shall
incorporate architectural elements, changes in wall texture or windows to break
up the mass and create visual interest.
      (1)   The use of landscaping or other techniques may be approved by the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   All mechanical equipment (including rooftop) must be screened from
view.
   (C)   All entrances must be clearly defined and shall include one of the
following:
      (1)   A minimum one-foot canopy, portico, or roof overhang.
      (2)   Architectural details such as moldings, tile work, display windows
or other features.
      (3)   A combination of site amenities such as planters, benches, or trash
cans; or
      (4)   Any equivalent technique to define entryways as approved by the
Planning Commission.
   (D)   Permitted building materials shall be compatible with adjacent
properties and a minimum of 33% of the building shall include one or more of
these materials:
      (1)   Brick or stone.
      (2)   Wood (excluding wood sheeting).
      (3)   Split faced or textured masonry.
      (4)   Exterior insulation and finish systems (EIFS) or equivalent
product.
      (5)   Other building finishes and materials may be approved by the
Planning Commission if they are compatible with adjacent properties.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.042 FENCES AND PLANTING SCREENS.
   (A)   Fences, plant material and similar screening devices up to three feet
in height are permitted in yards fronting on the public street. No planting
shall be permitted in the public right-of-way without prior approval of the
Street Superintendent and the Administrator.
   (B)   Fences up to six feet in height are permitted in rear and side
setbacks and may be placed along the side property line to the front of the
house, unless it is on a corner lot or dual frontage lot in which case §
152.045 shall control.
      (1)   The Zoning Inspector may allow a height increase within the rear
and side yard of up to 18 inches in cases of unique topography or adjacent
uses.
   (C)   Planted screens of any height are permitted in rear and side setbacks
and may be placed along the side property line to the front of the building,
unless the building is on a corner lot, in which case §
152.045 shall control.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.043 DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE.
   Solid fencing or a wall shall be installed around any trash dumpsters or
receptacles to provide year-round visual screening for the purpose of
effectively shielding those units, and shall meet the following minimum
standards:
   (A)   Screening shall be a minimum height of six feet.
   (B)   All four sides of the dumpster must be screened.
   (C)   The screen should incorporate access to the dumpster by using a wooden
fence or another opaque device to serve as a gate.
   (D)   Fencing and/or screening around dumpsters shall be maintained in good
condition and free of any advertisement.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.044 ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTIONS.
   (A)   Open structures such as porches, canopies, balconies, platforms,
decks, carports, covered patios, and similar architectural projections shall be
considered a part of the building to which attached and shall not project into
the required minimum front, side, or rear setback.
   (B)   Roof overhangs, inclusive of eave spouts and gutters, shall not
project more than two feet beyond the structure and may project into the front,
side, or rear setback.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.045 SPECIAL SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Corner lots. In all "R" Districts, lots having frontage on more than
one street shall provide the required setback along the major traveled street
and meet two-thirds of the front yard setback requirements on the other street.
   (B)   Dual frontage lots.
      (1)   Lots that have frontage on a street both in the rear and the front,
inclusive of parcels under single ownership used for a single primary use,
shall provide the required rear setback along the designated rear frontage.
      (2)   Fences within the rear setback shall not exceed three feet.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.046 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY ACROSS CORNER LOTS.
   In any district on any corner lot, no fence, structure, or planting shall be
erected or maintained within 30 feet of the "corner" at a height between two
and one-half feet or more, and ten feet above curb or street grade so as not to
interfere with traffic visibility across the corner. Where an alley intersects
a street, the above ruling shall apply. Corner, for the purpose of the
preceding sentence, shall mean the point of intersection of the edge of
pavement of the adjacent streets or alleys extended to meet each other at right
angles.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.047 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. In all districts in connection with every
industrial, business, institutional, residential, or other use, there shall be
provided, at any time any building or structure is erected or is enlarged or
altered in any way which would provide for habitation by an increased number of
people, the number of off-street parking spaces for automobiles set forth in §
152.048 in accordance with the following requirements:
   (B)   Parking stall dimensions.
 
Parking Stall Type  Width                          Length  Drive Aisle Width
Parallel (180°)    8 feet                         22 feet 13 feet
Perpendicular (90°)9 feet                         18 feet 24 feet
Angled (45°)       9 feet (measured line to line) 18 feet 12 feet (one-way)
                                                           22 feet (two-way)
 
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.048 PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Parking and bicycle parking requirements.
 
Uses Parking Spaces Required Bicycle Parking
Uses                                   Parking Spaces Required                                                      Bicycle
                                                                                                                    Parking
RESIDENTIAL
Dwellings, including 1, 2 and 3        Two for each dwelling unit                                                   None
families
                                       -   One for each studio or one-bedroom apartment                          One per
Multi-family (per unit)                -   Two for each dwelling unit with two or more bedrooms and one guest    five
                                       parking spot for every five dwelling units                                   dwelling
                                                                                                                   units
Group home or residential care         One for every two sleeping rooms or suite and one guest space for every four None
facility                               sleeping rooms
PUBLIC AND INSTITUTIONAL
Club                                   One for each five members                                                    None
                                                                                                                    One per
House of Worship                       One for each five seats in main auditorium                                   2,000
                                                                                                                    square
                                                                                                                    feet
School (except high school or college) One for each ten seats in auditorium or main assembly room, or one for each  One per
                                       classroom, whichever is greater                                              classroom
School, College, or high school        One for each eight seats in main auditorium or three for each classroom,     One per
                                       whichever is greater                                                         classroom
                                                                                                                    Two
                                                                                                                    minimum,
                                                                                                                    plus one
Community center, library, or museum   Ten plus one additional for each 300 square feet of floor area in excess of  for every
                                       2,000 square feet                                                            additional
                                                                                                                    2,000
                                                                                                                    square
                                                                                                                    feet
COMMERCIAL
Bowling alley                          Four for each alley                                                          Two per
                                                                                                                    five lanes
                                                                                                                    One
                                                                                                                    minimum
                                       -   One for each 125 square feet of floor space                           plus one
Community entertainment facilities     -   One for each 200 square feet if located within a multi-tenant buildingper
                                                                                                                   additional
                                                                                                                    2,500
                                                                                                                    square
                                                                                                                    feet
                                                                                                                    5% of
Commercial recreation facilities       One per four seats or 0.75 spaces per maximum occupancy                      required
                                                                                                                    car
                                                                                                                    parking
                                                                                                                    One for
                                                                                                                    every
Medical office                         One for each 200 square feet                                                 10,000
                                                                                                                    square
                                                                                                                    feet
Mortuary                               One for each 50 square feet of floor space in individual funeral service     None
                                       rooms
                                                                                                                    One for
                                                                                                                    every
Office, General                        One per 300 square feet                                                      10,000
                                                                                                                    square
                                                                                                                    feet
Hospital                               One for each four beds                                                       None
Hotel or Motel                         One per sleeping room plus one per 400 sq. ft. meeting area and restaurant   None
                                                                                                                    One
                                                                                                                    minimum
                                                                                                                    plus one
                                       -   One per 300 square feet                                               per
Personal Services                      -   Parking requirements are reduced by one-half if located in the CBD,   additional
                                       Central Business District, "Core" subarea                                 2,500
                                                                                                                    square
                                                                                                                    feet
                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                    One
                                                                                                                    minimum
                                                                                                                    plus one
                                       -   One parking space for every 3 seats or one per 100 square feet        per
Restaurant                             -   Parking requirements are reduced by one-half if located in CBD, Centraadditional
                                       Business District, "Core" subarea                                         2,500
                                                                                                                    square
                                                                                                                    feet
                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                    One
                                                                                                                    minimum
                                       -   One per 250 square feet                                               plus one
Retail Sales                           -   Parking requirements are reduced by one-half if located in CBD, Centraper
                                       Business District, "Core" subarea                                         additional
                                                                                                                    2,500
                                                                                                                    square
                                                                                                                    feet
Theater or auditorium                  One for each five seats or bench seating spaces                              None
INDUSTRIAL
Manufacturing                          One per 1,000 square feet or one per two employees for the maximum working   None
                                       shift, whichever is greater
Research and Testing                   One per 500 square feet                                                      None
Transportation, terminals, and storage One per 1,000 square feet, plus space to accommodate all trucks and other    None
(Wholesale Distribution)            vehicles
 
   (B)   Interpretation. The following rules shall govern the determination of
spaces required:
      (1)   Floor area. The gross floor area of the specified use.
      (2)   Fractional numbers shall be increased to the next whole number.
      (3)   The parking space requirement for a use not specifically mentioned
herein shall be the same as required for a use of similar nature.
   (C)   The Engineer shall have the discretion to reduce or increase the
minimum number of parking spaces by 15%. Requests beyond this threshold require
site plan approval by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Accessible parking shall be required in compliance with the 2010 ADA
Standards and any updates thereto.
   (E)   Change of use. Except when located within the CBD District, any change
of use that increases the minimum number of required vehicle parking spaces as
noted below, shall be required to comply with the requirements of the zoning
code:
      (1)   More than ten parking spaces; or
      (2)   More than 25% of the parking spaces that currently exist on-site or
on permitted off-site locations.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.049 SPECIAL PARKING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public, commercial, or
private parking lot for other than single family dwelling shall be developed
and maintained in accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Installation of curbs or wheel stops for parking stalls along the
perimeter of the property to prevent any part of a parked motor vehicle from
extending beyond the property line, overhanging a pedestrian walkway or
sidewalk, or damaging any structure.
      (2)   Adjacent parking lots on internal parcels are encouraged to provide
cross access connections and shared driveways whenever possible to minimize
curb cuts off highways and collectors.
      (3)   Minimum distance and setback requirements. No part of any parking
area for more than five vehicles shall be closer than 20 feet to any dwelling,
school, hospital, or other institution for human care located on an adjacent
lot, unless separated by an acceptably designed screen.
   (B)   Shared parking.
      (1)   Two or more non-residential uses may jointly provide and use
parking spaces based upon their hours of operation, overlapping hours and
amount of use, provided that the parking spaces that the proposed use(s) are
within 300 feet of the principal structure.
      (2)   A shared parking agreement shall be filed with the application for
a zoning permit. Shared parking agreements shall be reviewed by Legal Counsel
and the Engineer and shall comply with the following criteria:
         (a)   If an office use and retail sales and service or two uses of the
same type of use parking, the parking requirement for the retail sales and
personal service use may be reduced by 20%, provided that the reduction does
not exceed the minimum parking requirement for the office use.
         (b)   If a residential use shares parking with a retail sales or
personal service other than lodging, restaurants and bars, or entertainment
uses, the parking requirement for the residential use may be reduced by 30%,
provided that the reduction does not exceed the minimum parking requirement for
the retail sales and personal service use.
         (c)   If an office and a residential use share off-street parking, the
parking requirement for the residential use may be reduced by 40%, provided
that the reduction shall not exceed the minimum parking requirement for the
office use.
         (d)   Shared parking based on hours of operation, daytime uses, or
nighttime and Sunday only uses may share up to 80% of parking.
            1.   Daytime uses, operate anytime between the hours 8:00 a.m. and
6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday only, include customer service and
administrative offices, retail sales and services, wholesale, storage, and
distribution uses, manufacturing uses and other similar primarily daytime uses,
as determined by the Zoning Inspector.
            2.   Nighttime uses, operating anytime between the hours of 6:00
p.m. and 8:00 or Sunday uses include auditoriums accessory to public or private
schools, houses of worship, entertainment uses, restaurants and bars, or other
similar nighttime or Sunday use as determined by the Zoning Inspector.
   (C)   Bicycle parking. Bicycle parking shall be required in accordance with
§
152.048. As part of any site plan approval, the Engineer or Planning Commission
may require additional bicycle parking if the nature of the business generates
higher than required bicycle traffic.
   (D)   Surfacing and drainage. All drainage from a parking lot must be
managed on site. No sheet drainage off the paved area will be permitted.
      (1)   Parking areas for more than five spaces shall be paved and curbed
as directed by the Engineer. Any deviation from established drainage procedures
shall require approval from the Planning Commission.
      (2)   In M-1 and M-2 Zoning Districts, the Engineer shall have the
discretion to reduce paving and curbing for developments requiring five or less
parking spaces that also utilize large storage and internal drive areas in
addition to parking.
      (3)   For developments that exceed five spaces, hard surface and/or
curbing requirements may be relaxed during the site plan review with Planning
Commission Approval.
   (E)   Lighting.
      (1)   Commercial and industrial parking lots with more than five parking
spaces are required to have lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate any off-
street parking area shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from
adjoining properties.
      (2)   Horizontal luminance shall have an average maintained one foot-
candle with a minimum level of 0.25 foot-candle on the parking lot surface from
dusk until termination of normal business hours
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022; Am. Ord. 2023-57, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 152.050 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In any district, in connection with every building or part thereof
having a gross floor area of 10,000 sq. ft. or more, which is to be occupied by
manufacturing, storage, warehouse, retail, wholesale, hotel, hospital,
mortuary, or other uses similarly requiring the receipt or distribution by
vehicle or materials or merchandise, shall provide and maintain on the same lot
at least one off-street loading space, plus one additional such loading space
for each additional 20,000 sq. ft.
   (B)   Each loading space shall be no less than 14 feet in width, 45 feet in
length.
   (C)   A lot abutting a public or private alley or access easement adjacent
to a loading or parking area shall provide a parallel area of not less than 12
feet in width.
   (D)   The CBD "Core" sub-area shall be exempt from this requirement. The
municipality may establish on street loading zones and specified hours for
deliveries.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 152.060 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any lawful uses of buildings or land existing at the effective date of
this chapter may be continued, even though such use does not conform to the
provisions of this chapter. The nonconforming use of a building may be extended
throughout those existing parts of the building, which were arranged or
designed for such use. No nonconforming building or structure shall be moved,
extended, enlarged, or altered and no nonconforming use of land shall be
expanded, except when authorized by Planning Commission in accordance with the
provisions of §
152.144, Nonconforming Uses.
   (B)   Whenever the use of a building or land becomes nonconforming through a
change in the amended zoning chapter or in the district boundaries, such use
may be continued.
   (C)   A nonconforming use, which is discontinued for a period of two years,
shall not again be used except in conformity with the regulations of the
district in which it is located. Similar nonconforming uses may continue after
the sale of the property on which the nonconforming use is occupied.
   (D)   A nonconforming use, which has been damaged by fire, explosion, or act
of God to the extent of 51% or more of its reproduction value at the time of
damage, shall not be restored except in conformity with the regulations of the
district in which it is located. When damaged by less than 51% of its
reproduction value, a nonconforming use may be repaired or reconstructed, and
used as before the time of damage, provided such repairs or reconstruction are
started within one year of the date of such damage.
   (E)   Nonconforming trailer or manufactured homes located on a lot in any
district other than in an established manufactured home park, once removed
shall not be relocated on such lot unless the unit was upgraded for another
unit. In this instance, the replacement shall be on site within one week of the
removal of the previous unit.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.061 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is subordinate to a single-family
dwelling unit and either attached to a single-family dwelling unit or within an
accessory structure and meet the following requirements.
   (B)   A maximum of one accessory dwelling unit is allowed per legal lot and
shall comply with the following criteria:
      (1)   Floor area. An accessory dwelling unit shall not exceed 800 square
feet of floor area, or 40% of the primary dwelling unit's floor area, whichever
is smaller. The unit may be a detached or attached to a dwelling, or in a
portion of an existing accessory building (the floor area of any garage
associated with the primary dwelling is not included in the calculation of
maximum floor area.).
      (2)   Building design. The accessory dwelling shall be constructed of
materials that are the same or similar materials used on the primary dwelling.
      (3)   Building height. The height of an accessory dwelling shall not
exceed the height of the primary dwelling.
      (4)   Parking. An additional one off-street parking spaces shall be
required for a site containing an accessory dwelling unit.
      (5)   There shall be a minimum ten- foot distance from the principal
structure for a detached accessory dwelling unit.
      (6)   ADUs shall also be subject to all other requirements of §
152.062, Accessory Structures.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.062 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   No accessory building or structure shall be located in any front yard
and no accessory building shall be located less than 60 feet from the primary
front lot line.
   (B)   Accessory buildings or structures that are 625 square feet or less
shall be a minimum of six feet from the side and rear lot lines and shall not
exceed 20-foot in height.
   (C)   Accessory buildings or structures that exceed 625 square feet shall
comply with the zoning district setback requirements for a principal structure.
   (D)   All accessory buildings or structures, in aggregate, shall not exceed
a total of 30% lot coverage of the rear yard.
   (E)   There shall be no more than three accessory buildings or structures
permitted per property.
   (F)   Sheds and other premanufactured enclosed buildings, not used for
habitation, are recommended to be placed on a minimum four-inch stone pad and
required to have skirting around the base.
   (G)   Accessory structures in the CBD shall comply with the underlying zone
setbacks.
   (H)   No accessory building shall be closer than ten feet to the principal
structure, except that an accessory building may not be closer than five feet
to the principal structure if no windows or doors are located in that portion
of the wall of the principal structure that is directly opposite and parallel
to a wall of the accessory structure.
   (I)   Accessory structure and use setbacks are as follows:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE/USE LOCATION MINIMUM SETBACK FROM LOT LINE
                                 Front Side Rear
ACCESSORY        LOCATION          MINIMUM SETBACK FROM LOT LINE
STRUCTURE/USE                      Front Side        Rear
Accessoryd
buildings/
structures that  Rear, Sided       N/A   6           6
are 625 square
feet or less
Accessoryd
buildings/                               Same as for Same as for
structures that  Rear, Sided       N/A   principal   principal structure
are 625 square                           structure
feet or more
Fences, wallsa   Front, side, rear 0     0           0
Drivewaysb       Front, side, rear 5     3           5
Patios, decks    Rear yard         N/A   5           5
Private swimming Rear yard         N/A   10          10
poolsc
Notes:
a - Refer to §
152.042, Fences for height restrictions
b - Circular driveways or parking pads parallel to road right-of-way
c - Setback measured to water's edge
d - Refer to §
152.062(A)
 
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022; Am. Ord. 2023-57, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 152.063 ADULT BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Adult businesses shall not be located within:
      (1)   Five hundred feet of residential zoned districts;
      (2)   One thousand feet of any other adult business;
      (3)   Five hundred feet of a day care center, church, public parks,
schools, libraries, or other public buildings; and
      (4)   Five hundred feet of any establishment with a liquor license.
   (B)   The distance shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures, from the closest exterior structural wall of each
business.
   (C)   All building openings, entries, windows, and openings shall be
located, covered, or otherwise arranged in such a manner to prevent a view into
the interior of the use.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.064 CONVERSION OF EXISTING DWELLINGS.
   In an "R-3" and the "CBD" District a dwelling may be converted to
accommodate an increased number of dwelling units provided:
   (A)   If the building is to be altered on the outside, the setbacks shall
comply with the requirements of the zoning district for the new unit type.
   (B)   The lot area and square footage per family complies with requirements
of the zoning district for the new unit type.
   (C)   The number of square feet of living area per family unit is not less
than that which is required by the zoning district.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.065 DISH ANTENNAS AND NONMOBILE ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Any dish antenna or nonmobile antenna shall be mounted on the roof of
the structure or in the rear yard of the property.
   (B)   Antennas shall not be closer than six feet to any property lines;
inclusive of any supports.
   (C)   Antennas greater than three feet in diameter shall require a zoning
permit.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.066 GARAGE SALES.
   Garage and yard sales are permitted provided that:
   (A)   No more than four garage sales shall be conducted on the premises in
any calendar year.
   (B)   No garage sales shall be conducted for longer than three days
duration.
   (C)   One unlit sign not exceeding 12 square feet in area shall be
permitted. Said sign shall pertain to the garage sale only and shall be located
on the property. Said sign shall be permitted for 72 hours.
      (1)   One additional sign may be placed off-premises in compliance with
this section and §
152.102(J), Temporary Signs.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.067 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations are permitted as an accessory to a residential use under
the following conditions:
   (A)   No more than 25% of the gross area of a dwelling unit shall be used
for such purpose. Use of accessory buildings for these purposes is permitted.
   (B)   No use shall require external alterations or involve construction
features or the use of electrical or mechanical equipment that would change the
fire rating of the structure or the fire district in which the structure is
located.
   (C)   There shall be no outside storage of any kind related to said
occupation and no more than one additional vehicle at a time.
   (D)   The use may increase vehicular traffic flow and parking by no more
than one additional vehicle at a time.
   (E)   One home occupation sign shall be permitted. It may display the names
of the occupants and/or the name of the home occupation. It shall not exceed
six square feet in area, shall be non-illuminated, and attached flat to the
main structure or visible through a window.
   (F)   Permitted home occupations:
      (1)   Artists, crafters, and sculptors, including one on one instruction.
      (2)   Writers, musicians, and composers.
      (3)   Dressmakers, seamstress, and tailors.
      (4)   Family day care home, in compliance with Ohio Department of Jobs
and Family rules.
      (5)   Office facility of a counselor, psychiatrist or other professional
that provides counsel mental and/or emotional counsel one on one.
      (6)   Office facility for professionals that service customers off-site
or remotely.
      (7)   Office facility for an individual providing professional services
such as architecture, financial services, attorney, or real estate agent.
      (8)   Cottage food production operator in compliance with State of Ohio
rules and regulations.
      (9)   Computer operations where the residents can conduct their work at
home.
      (10)   Home occupations similar to those permitted which have no impact
on the surrounding area may be permitted by the Zoning Inspector.
      (11)   Home occupations not similar in nature or impact are not
permitted.
   (G)   Home occupation permit required.
      (1)   The Zoning Inspector shall review all applications for
compatibility with neighborhood before a permit is issued.
      (2)   The Zoning Inspector may require conditions of approval as
necessary to reduce impacts to surround neighborhoods.
      (3)   A change in said ownership shall nullify the home occupation
permit.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.068 MEDICAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATORS, PROCESSORS AND DISPENSARIES.
   (A)   The term "medical marijuana" shall have the same meaning as in R.C. §
3769.01(A), effective September 8, 2016.
   (B)   No person shall open, establish, or operate any business or commercial
enterprise of any kind as a cultivator, processor, or retail dispenser of
medical marijuana within the corporate limits of Archbold, Ohio.
   (C)   No zoning clearance, permit, or other administrative approval shall be
approved or issued by any administrative official, nor shall any variance be
approved or granted, to any person, business, or other applicant desiring or
intending to operate a business or commercial enterprise engaged as a
cultivator, processor, or retail dispenser of medical marijuana within the
corporate limits of Archbold, Ohio.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty
of a separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any
such person commits, permits and/or causes a violation thereof, and shall be
penalized accordingly.
   (E)   Any use or condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any
of the provisions of this code and hereby is declared to be a public nuisance
and may be abated by the municipality.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an unclassified
misdemeanor, and shall be fined not more than $500, and subject to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed six months for each violation.
   (G)   The violation of any provision of this section shall and hereby is
declared to be a public nuisance and contrary to public interest, and shall, at
the discretion of the municipal, be address in a civil filing requesting
injunctive relief.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.069 OPEN STORAGE AND DISPLAY OF MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENT.
   The open storage and display of material and equipment incident to permitted
or conditional uses in "B" or "M" Districts shall be permitted provided the
area used for open storage and display shall be effectively screened from all
adjoining properties in any "R" District by means of walls, fences, and/or
plantings. Walls or fences shall be a minimum of four feet in height without
advertising thereon. In lieu of such wall or fence a strip of land not less
than ten feet in width and planted and maintained with an evergreen hedge or
dense planting of evergreen shrubs not less than four feet in height at the
time of planting may be substituted.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.070 OUTDOOR WOOD BURNING FURNACE.
   Outdoor wood-burning furnaces must include a smokestack height at least as
high as the highest point of any roof of any residential building within 500
feet of the furnace.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.071 PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USES.
   (A)   No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in any
manner so as to create any dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise
objectionable element or condition so as to adversely affect the surrounding
area or adjoining premises provided that any use permitted by this chapter may
be undertaken and maintained if acceptable measures and safeguards are employed
to limit dangerous and objectionable elements to acceptable limits as
established by the following performance requirements:
      (1)   Fire hazards. Any activity involving the use or storage of
flammable or explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting
and fire suppression equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used
in the handling of any such material. Such hazards shall be kept removed from
adjacent activities to a distance, which is compatible with the potential
danger involved. The Fire Inspector shall have final enforcement authority of
this provision.
      (2)   Radioactivity or electrical disturbance. No activity shall emit
dangerous radioactivity at any point, or electrical disturbance adversely
affecting the operation at any point of any equipment other than that of the
creator of such disturbance.
      (3)   Noise. Noise which is objectionable as determined by the Zoning
Inspector due to volume, frequency or beat shall be muffled or otherwise
controlled.
      (4)   Vibration. No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible
without instruments on any adjoining lot or property.
      (5)   Smoke. Smoke requirements shall be under Ohio E.P.A. jurisdiction.
      (6)   Odors. No malodorous gas or matter shall be permitted which is
offensive or as to produce a public nuisance or hazard on any adjoining lot or
property.
      (7)   Air pollution. No pollution of air by fly ash, dust, vapors, or
other substances shall be permitted which is harmful to health, animals,
vegetation, or other property, or which can cause excessive soiling. Air
requirements shall be under Ohio E.P.A. jurisdiction.
      (8)   Glare. No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is
visible from any property outside an "M" District or from any public street,
road, or highway.
      (9)   Erosion. No erosion, by either wind or water, shall be permitted
which will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties.
      (10)   Water pollution. Pollution of water shall be subject to the
requirements and regulations established by the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency.
   (B)   Measurement procedures. Methods and procedures for the determination
of the existence of any dangerous and objectionable elements shall conform to
applicable standard measurement procedures established by E.P.A. or other
agencies.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.072 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Recreational equipment such as motor homes, camping trailers, pick-up
campers, boat trailers, boats, snowmobiles, snowmobile trailers, and similar
items shall be permitted in an "R" District under the following conditions:
   (B)   By the owner of the equipment upon the unenclosed portion of the
premises of the owner of the equipment, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The equipment shall not be inhabited (except for occasional
emergency sleeping room) or used for the conduct of any commercial enterprise.
      (2)   No more than one piece of each type of such equipment and never
more than two pieces of such equipment shall be parked upon the unenclosed
portion of the premises at any one time unless it is inside a building.
      (3)   The equipment shall be parked at least three feet behind the front
house line (exclusive of porches, porticos, and similar projections) of the
house on the property and at least three feet away from the side and rear lot
lines of the property, except that for loading and unloading purposes the
equipment may be parked in the driveway for a period of not more than 48 hours.
      (4)   The equipment shall have no permanent connections to electric,
water, gas, or sewer facilities.
      (5)   The equipment shall be kept in good repair and shall carry a
current year's license and/or registration.
      (6)   Under no circumstances shall the area underneath or around the
equipment be used as storage.
   (C)   By visitors at least one of whom is the owner of the equipment or
lessee of the equipment from other than the owner of the premises, upon the
unenclosed portion of the premises of the persons being visited, subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   The visitor(s)shall not park or inhabit their equipment on the
premises more than two separate times in any year nor more than 14 consecutive
days at any one time.
      (2)   No more than one piece of each type of such equipment and never
more than two pieces of such equipment shall be parked upon the unenclosed
portion of the premises at any one time.
      (3)   The equipment shall not be parked or inhabited upon any unenclosed
portion of the premises except in the rear and side setbacks of the premises so
long as parked or inhabited at least three feet away from the side or rear plot
line; provided, however, the Planning/Zoning Inspector shall be authorized to
permit temporary parking and/or habitation on the driveway in the front yard so
long as he first finds that weather conditions and lack of access prevents
parking and/or habitation in the rear or side setbacks of the premises.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.073 SOLAR ENERGY GENERATION.
   (A)   Solar energy generation equipment may be installed in all zoning
districts as an accessory use and shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Placements of solar collectors on a gabled, hipped, or mansard roof
shall be mounted parallel to and no more than 12 inches from the roof surface,
and shall not extend more than 18 inches above the maximum permitted building
height in the zone district.
      (2)   Building-integrated photovoltaic (BIPV) systems shall be permitted
subject to the requirements of the Ohio Building Code.
      (3)   Solar energy equipment shall be located in a manner to minimize
view blockage for surrounding properties and shading of property to the north,
while still providing adequate solar access for collectors.
      (4)   Ground-mounted solar collectors are permitted as accessory
structures in all zoning districts, subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   The solar collector is located in a rear yard and meets all
applicable requirements for accessory structures.
         (b)   The solar collectors do not emit unreasonable glare and
negatively impact adjacent properties.
         (c)   The surface area of solar collectors is not more than 2% of the
lot.
         (d)   If a solar collector ceases to perform its originally intended
function for more than 12 consecutive months, the property owner shall remove
the collector, mount, and associated equipment no later than 90 days after the
end of the 12-month period.
   (B)   Solar energy generation as a principal use (solar farm) shall require
submittal of a site plan application concurrent with a conditional use
application. The development shall be subject to the following supplemental
criteria:
      (1)   Physical access to a solar farm shall be restricted by fencing or
walls. Razor wire is prohibited. All fencing and wall details shall be shown on
the required site plan.
      (2)   Devices that capture energy and convert it to electricity shall not
be placed in wetlands or environmentally sensitive lands.
      (3)   All devices that capture and convert energy to electricity shall be
located at least 50 feet from any lot line under separate ownership.
      (4)   All solar farms must comply with the landscaping, screening, and
buffering requirements.
      (5)   On-site power lines shall be placed underground to the maximum
extent possible.
      (6)   All solar energy equipment is considered structures and subject to
the requirements for such, together with all other applicable Ohio Building
Codes and other legislation.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.074 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Private swimming pools. A private swimming pool shall be any pool, or
open tank not located within a completely enclosed building and containing or
normally capable of containing water to a depth at any point greater than one
and one-half feet. No such swimming pool, exclusive of portable or inflatable
swimming pools or garden ponds, shall be allowed in any "B" or "R" District
except as an accessory use and unless it complies with the following conditions
and requirements:
      (1)   The pool is intended and is to be used solely for the enjoyment of
the occupants and guests of the principal use of the property on which it is
located.
      (2)   Pools may not be located, closer than ten feet to any property line
of the property from water's edge.
      (3)   Above ground pools shall have a top rail fence to be a total of
four feet in height above ground with a lockable gate, including any attached
decks or a removable ladder.
      (4)   In ground pools shall have a four-foot wall or fence with a gate
and lock enclosing the pool or the entire property on which it is located to
prevent uncontrolled access by children from the street or from adjacent
properties. Water Department shall be permitted access if the water meter is
located within the fenced area.
      (5)   Prior to construction of the pool, temporary fencing shall totally
enclose the construction area and shall be removed within 14 days of
completion.
      (6)   Proper drainage shall be provided to ensure that pool overflow does
not affect adjacent properties.
   (B)   Community or club swimming pools. A community or club swimming pool
shall be any pool constructed by an association of property owners, or by a
private club for use and enjoyment by members of the association or club and
their families. Community and club swimming pools are permitted in all
districts, but shall comply with the following conditions and requirements:
      (1)   The pool is intended solely for the enjoyment of the members and
families and guests of members of the association or club under whose ownership
or jurisdiction the pool is operated.
      (2)   The swimming pool and all the area used by the bathers shall be so
walled or fenced as to prevent uncontrolled access by children from the street
or adjacent properties. The fence or wall shall not be less than four feet in
height and maintained in good condition.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.075 TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS.
   (A)   Maximum height. Any height of such tower more than the distance of
such tower from the nearest property line shall require approval of Planning
Commission.
   (B)   Minimum distance from property lines. The minimum setback requirements
for principal structures shall apply.
   (C)   Minimum distance from residential structure. No tower shall be located
a distance less than its height from a dwelling unit
   (D)   Equipment shelter. The minimum setback requirements for principal
structures shall apply and such shelter shall not be located above ground in
any required front or side setback.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.076 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Temporary buildings, construction trailers, equipment and materials
used in conjunction with construction shall be permitted in any district during
construction work is in progress, but such temporary buildings and equipment
shall be removed within 30 days of completion.
   (B)   Unless otherwise noted in this section, temporary buildings, or
storage in any zoning districts for an accessory use may be permitted for no
more
than one year, in compliance with zoning district regulations. The Engineer may
require conditions of approval and stipulate requirements related to
installation, placement, and materials.
   (C)   All temporary buildings or storage structures shall require zoning
permit
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.077 WIND ENERGY GENERATION.
   (A)   Small wind energy generation equipment may be installed in all zoning
districts as an accessory use and shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Small wind energy systems shall be principally used to produce
power for the benefit of the applicant.
      (2)   All towers and facilities shall not exceed the maximum height of
the zoning district.
      (3)   The maximum power output for each small wind energy system shall be
100 kilowatts. Residentially zoned properties are limited to one small wind
energy system per acre.
      (4)   Setbacks for small wind energy systems shall be 110% of the system
height from the property lines.
      (5)   All small wind energy systems shall be maintained in safe
condition.
   (B)   Large scale wind energy equipment shall be constructed a distance of
at least 125% of the total height of the equipment from the property line,
occupied building, and public or private road or right-of-way.
      (1)   All moving rotor blades shall be a minimum of 30 feet from ground
level.
      (2)   All permanent wind energy equipment shall be self-supporting. No
guy wires will be allowed on permanent structures.
      (3)   All towers shall be made non-climbable in a manner approved by the
Archbold Engineer.
      (4)   All electrical wires leading to or from a wind energy equipment
shall be buried underground. All connections to transmission lines and/or
substations shall be buried underground.
      (5)   Wind energy facilities shall not be artificially lighted, except to
the extent required by the FAA or other applicable authority.
      (6)   Wind energy equipment shall comply with §
152.071, Performance Requirements.
   (C)   Any tower or structure associated with wind energy equipment that
remains unused for any reason for more than 30 days shall be dismantled and
removed from the property no later than 90 days from the time use of the
equipment has ceased.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
§ 152.080 DEMOLITION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish regulations
concerning the demolition of buildings and structures to ensure that buildings
and structures that have had utilities such as gas, electric, water, and sewer
are properly disconnected. These regulations reduce risk to public health and
safety.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person shall demolish any building, structure, or facility over
600 square feet in size and connected to utilities without first securing a
permit from the Village Administrator or designee
      (2)   A demolition permit shall be issued only to a demolition contractor
duly registered with the State of Ohio, accompanied by a notarized statement of
the owner of the subject property that said registered demolition contractor is
the agent for such demolition.
      (3)   A demolition permit application shall be completed. The Village
Administrator may revise the permit from time to time as deemed necessary or
appropriate.
      (4)   The applicant shall pay the demolition permit fee established by
Village Council at the time the demolition permit application is submitted.
      (5)   At the time of application, the applicant shall specify when the
building will be demolished, where the materials will be hauled, and the
measures to be taken to secure the property during the demolition.
      (6)   Prior to starting demolition, the demolition contractor shall
provide proof of current, valid liability insurance coverage, written with an
insurance company registered to do business in the State of Ohio. The liability
insurance shall afford limits of liability no less than $100,000 for damages to
a single person, and $300,000 for one occurrence.
   (C)   Disconnection of utilities. As a condition of demolition permit
approval, the owner, agent, or person in control of the building or structure
to be demolished shall notify, in writing, the appropriate utilities or public
authorities serving the building or structure regarding their intentions to
demolish the building or structure. Such notice shall include a request that
the utilities be disconnected. The owner, agent, or person in control of the
building or structure to be demolished, or the utility company, shall provide
evidence to the village that the utilities have been disconnected. The permit
shall not be issued until all proper verification has been received. Proof of
verification that services have been disconnected may be evidenced on the
application for a demolition permit.
   (D)   Bond or other surety required. Prior to the issuance of a demolition
permit, the owner, agent, or person with control of the property subject to
demolition shall post with the village a minimum of $5,000 performance bond,
cash deposit, or other surety approved by the Village Administrator to assure
the village that the demolition work will proceed as permitted.
      (1)   The terms of the surety shall provide that the village may retain
or claim the surety proceeds if the permit holder fails to perform the
demolition activities in accordance with the permit granted.
         (a)   In the event that the planned demolition is of such a size or
scope that the $5,000 bond, deposit, or surety will be insufficient to assure
completion for the demolition and site restoration activity, the Village
Administrator may request a larger value performance bond, cash deposit, or
other surety to assure the village that the demolition work will proceed as
permitted. This larger value shall be set on a case-by-case basis, upon
majority vote of Council.
         (b)   In any event, the value of the surety shall not exceed the cost
associated with the demolition and site restoration.
      (2)   Bonds must be approved as to form by the Village Solicitor,
indemnifying the village for all liability arising by reason of the acts of the
demolition contractor or their employees while in the pursuit of their business
under a demolition permit issued by the village.
   (E)   Site conditions.
      (1)   During the course of the demolition activity, the owner, agent, or
person in control of the property subject to the demolition shall take steps to
ensure the safety of the general public, including the containment of dust and
hazardous material, as governed by Ohio Administrative Code. The proposed steps
shall be in compliance with generally accepted building industry safety
practices as may be reflected in building codes applicable in the village and
State of Ohio.
      (2)   The demolition of any structure shall include the removal of all
elements of the building, to include structural and roof parts, various and
sundry debris generated by the demolition of the structure itself, any contents
of the structure that remain at the time of demolition, and the building
foundation.
         (a)   Removal of the foundation shall not be deemed complete unless
and until every element of the foundation has been broken up and removed from
the site, including all footers and material below grade.
         (b)   All surface irregularities, wells, septic tanks, basements,
cellars, sidewalks, vaults, and coal chutes shall be completely removed.
         (c)   Once all the debris has been removed from the site, all holes
shall be filled with environmentally clean compactable materials approved by
the Village Administrator or their designee.
      (3)   Following the completion of demolition work, the owner, agent or
person in control of the property or facility (industrial, commercial, public,
and institutional) subject to the demolition activity shall provide for the
restoration of the site so as to address safety and nuisance concerns. All such
sites shall be brought to a level or other grade determined to be appropriate
by the Village Administrator or designee.
      (4)   The demolition contractor shall provide for the disposal of the
debris associated with the demolition and/or rehabilitation work including dust
control during demolition in compliance with Ohio EPA requirements. The debris
shall be placed in an appropriate container for removal by a private
contractor, or another approved arrangement shall be made for the disposal of
the debris on at least a weekly basis. No property owner or permit holder shall
permit the non-containerized accumulation of demolition debris on any property
in the village for a period in excess of seven calendar days. All debris and
material associated with the demolition work shall be removed from the
property.
      (5)   All sanitary sewer leads that served the subject demolished
building or structure shall be removed or grouted solid from structure to
property line and shall be capped at the property line, or as may be required
by the Village Administrator or their designee. Applicants securing the
demolition permit who choose to permanently terminate the water and/or sanitary
sewer service must follow the Village of Archbold Engineering specifications.
      (6)   As soon as weather permits, the site, and adjacent public property
that has been affected by the demolition activity, shall be restored (including
the application of topsoil if necessary to ensure growth). Sod, grass seed, or
other ground cover material shall be installed to address soil erosion control.
The Village Administrator or their designee may require that straw or mulch
material be placed on the site that is seeded to prevent erosion and enhance
the likelihood of successful growth.
      (7)   Any damage to public property such as but not limited to a public
sidewalk shall be properly repaired and restored to its original condition.
This work shall be accomplished within two weeks after the building has been
demolished.
   (F)   Regulation of demolition contractors. In undertaking any demolition
work as defined in this subchapter, the demolition contractor during their
entire employment under a contract, whether public or private, shall be
responsible and liable for:
      (1)   Faithful compliance and adherence to all federal, state, and local
laws and regulations relating to safe demolition and construction processes and
procedures including equipment, apparel and individual protective device
regulations, and requirements for pedestrian protection, adjoining property
protection, vacant lot conditions, water accumulation, and utility
disconnections in accordance with the Ohio Building Code. The Ohio EPA Division
of Air Pollution shall be notified even if no asbestos or other hazardous
materials are present.
      (2)   Securing all necessary licenses, permits, easements, and rights-of-
way.
      (3)   Early and adequate notice to the village and utility companies for
appropriate disconnections and the safeguarding thereof.
      (4)   Minimization of air pollution and contamination through wetting,
soaking, and other dust and debris settling techniques, in compliance with all
Ohio EPA requirements.
      (5)   Installation, erection, and maintenance of barricades, warning
lights and signals, pedestrian cautions, and walkways in accordance with safety
codes, regulations, and ordinances. When necessary for the public protection,
the contractor shall employ guards and watchmen.
(Ord. 2023-57, passed 12-4-2023)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
§ 152.090 RESIDENTIAL MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Responsibilities.
      (1)   The occupant of a dwelling unit in any dwelling structure shall be
responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the
dwelling unit, dwelling structure, or premises which is occupied and
controlled.
      (2)   The owner of every dwelling as defined herein shall be responsible
for the maintenance thereof in good repair and safe condition as required by
the terms of this chapter. The owner shall also be responsible for maintaining
in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or common areas of the premises.
   (B)   General maintenance requirements. All dwelling structures and all
parts thereof shall be maintained in good repair and shall be capable of
performing the function for which such structure or part of any feature thereof
was designed or intended to be used.
   (C)   Maintenance of foundations.
      (1)   All foundations of every dwelling structure shall be maintained
structurally sound and in good repair.
      (2)   All foundations of every dwelling structure shall be maintained in
such conditions as to prevent the accumulation of moisture within the space
enclosed within such foundations.
      (3)   All openings into the foundations of every dwelling structure shall
be protected against the entrance or rodents.
   (D)   Maintenance of roofs, gutters, and downspouts. All roofs of every
dwelling structure shall be maintained weathertight and shall be equipped with
gutters and downspouts.
   (E)   Maintenance of exteriors of dwelling structures and secondary or
appurtenant structures.
      (1)   All exterior parts of every dwelling structure, including exterior
walls, parapet walls, decorative additions, chimneys, and all other exterior
structures, either above or below the roof line, shall be maintained in a safe
condition, weather-tight, and so as to resist decay or deterioration for any
cause.
      (2)   Any dwelling structure or secondary or appurtenant structure whose
exterior surface is bare, deteriorated, ramshackle, tumbledown, decaying,
disintegrating or in poor repair must be repaired or razed.
         (a)   All buckled, rotted, or decayed walls, doors, windows, porches,
floors, steps, railings, trim, and their missing members must be replaced and
put in good condition.
         (b)   All replacements must match and conform to original design or be
replaced completely.
         (c)   All exterior wood or exterior unfinished surfaces must be sealed
and painted, or surface covered with other approved protective coating or
treated to prevent rot and decay and conform and match the existing paint or
surface covering and original design or replacement thereof. All exterior walls
and surfaces must be properly protected against the weather where such are
defective or lack weather protection, including lack of paint or surface
covering or have weathered due to lack of proper protective covering.
      (3)   Any dwelling structure or secondary or appurtenant structure whose
exterior surface is deteriorated, decaying, disintegrating or whose exterior
surface has weathered with dirt and grime or has been impaired through peeling
or flaking of the paint or other protective coating shall be repaired,
repainted, or resurfaced.
         (a)   All exterior surfaces shall be replaced or repaired in good
condition preparatory to repainting or coating.
         (b)   All bare exterior surfaces which are flaking, or crumbling shall
be replaced or sealed in a good and skillful manner.
         (c)   All new or repaired bare surfaces shall be painted or coated.
         (d)   All exterior surfaces weathered with dirt and grime, or which
are peeling, or flaking shall be painted or covered with approved protective
coating or surface.
      (4)   Presentation of evidence that all exterior surfaces have, not more
than five years prior to the date of inspection, been properly prepared and
painted with at least one coat of good exterior paint or covered with other
approved protective coating or surface shall be prima facie evidence of the
exterior being in good condition.
   (F)   Infestation by pests. All dwelling structures and the premises thereof
shall be maintained free from sources of breeding, harborage and infestation by
insects, vermin, or rodents.
   (G)   Exterior property areas. No owner or operator of any premises shall
maintain or permit to be maintained at or on the exterior property areas of the
premises any condition which deteriorates or debases the appearance of the
neighborhood; or creates a fire, safety, or health hazard; or which is a public
nuisance; including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Broken or dilapidated fences, walls, or other structures.
      (2)   Broken, uneven, or improperly maintained walks or drives.
      (3)   Out of use or non-usable appliances, dilapidated automobile parts.
      (4)   Rugs, rags, or other materials hung on lines or in other places on
the premises, which materials are not being used for general household or
housekeeping purposes; broken, dilapidated or unusable furniture, mattresses,
or other household furnishings; plastic materials, paints, miscellaneous
coverings, and/or any other materials, including those described in this
section of the chapter, placed at or on the premises in such manner as to be
patently unsightly, grotesque or offensive to the senses
      (5)   The parking of a disabled vehicles licensed or unlicensed, within a
residential district for a period of more than 14 days shall be prohibited;
except that such vehicle may be stored in an enclosed garage or other accessory
building provided that no business (car repair and the like) shall be conducted
in connection therewith while such vehicle is parked or stored.
      (6)   Parking and keeping of vehicles. It shall be unlawful to park or
keep any unlicensed or disabled motor vehicle or any part thereof, except as
provided in § 152.072, in any district except by permission of the Planning
Commission, for a period of more than 14 days, whether or not consecutive,
unless the vehicle is stored in an enclosed garage or other accessory building.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful to allow the growth of grass and weeds to
exceed a height of 12 inches or more. Under such circumstances the resident or
owner shall be notified by certified mail of said offense and given three days'
notice upon receipt to make amends. If the weeds or grass are not cut within
three days of receipt of notice, municipal employees shall have the right to
enter the premises and cut them down. The offending party shall then be billed
for the cost of this procedure. If said party does not pay the bill within 30
days of receipt, the amount of the bill shall be placed upon the real estate
tax and shall be a lien upon the land involved.
      (8)   Upon a finding by the Zoning Inspector that litter has been placed
on lands in Archbold, Ohio and remained for a period of time so as to
constitute a detriment to public health, the Zoning Inspector may cause a
written notice to be served upon the owner by either certified mail or delivery
by a police officer and, if different, upon the lessee, agent, or tenant having
charge of the littered land, notifying him or her that litter is on the land,
and that it must be collected and removed within 15 days after the service of
the notice. This section does not apply to land being used under a municipal
building or construction zoning permit or variance to operate a junkyard, scrap
metal processing facility, or similar business, or permit or license issued
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3734, R.C. §§ 4737.05 to 4737.12, or R.C. Chapter
6111.
      (9)   If the owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of the lands
mentioned in §
152.090(G)(8), fails to comply with §
152.090(G)(8), the Administrator shall cause such litter removed and may employ
any necessary labor for removal. All expenses incurred shall, when approved by
the Administrator, be paid out of money in the treasury of Archbold, Ohio not
otherwise appropriated. An invoice for all expenses incurred by the
municipality plus a 5% processing fee shall then be sent to the owner, lessee,
agent, or tenant having charge of the lands by certified mail or delivery by a
police officer.
      (10)   If the owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of the lands
fails to pay in full the invoice mentioned in §
152.090(G)(9), within 30 days from the date of the invoice, the Finance
Director shall make a written return to the County Auditor of their action
under §
152.090(G), with a statement of the charges for contractor services, the amount
paid for labor, the fees of the officers serving the notices, and a proper
description of the premises. These amounts, when allowed shall be entered upon
the tax duplicate and be a lien upon such lands from and after the date of
entry and be collected as other taxes and returned to the municipal the general
fund.
   (H)   Secondary or appurtenant structures. All secondary or appurtenant
structures such as sheds, barns, garages, and the like, shall either be
maintained in good repair and free from health, accident and fire hazards or
shall be removed from the premises.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.091 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Responsibilities.
      (1)   The occupant of a commercial or industrial building shall be
responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the
building, which he occupies, and controls.
      (2)   The owner of every commercial and industrial building shall be
responsible for the maintenance thereof in good repair and safe condition as
required by the terms of the chapter. The owner shall also be responsible for
maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or common areas of the
premises.
   (B)   General requirements. All commercial and industrial buildings and all
parts thereof shall be maintained in good repair and shall be capable of
performing the function for which such structure or part of any feature thereof
was designed or intended to be used.
   (C)   Maintenance of foundations.
      (1)   All foundations of every commercial and industrial building shall
be maintained structurally sound and in good repair.
      (2)   All foundations of every commercial and industrial building shall
be maintained in such condition as to prevent the accumulation of moisture
within the space enclosed within such foundations.
      (3)   All openings into the foundations of every commercial and
industrial building shall be protected against the entrance of rodents.
   (D)   Maintenance of roofs, gutters, and downspouts. All roofs of every
commercial and industrial building shall be maintained weather-tight and shall
be equipped with gutters and downspouts.
   (E)   Maintenance of exteriors of commercial and industrial buildings and
secondary or appurtenant structures.
      (1)   All exterior parts of every commercial and industrial building
including exterior walls, parapet walls, decorative additions, chimneys, and
all other exterior structures, shall be maintained in a safe condition,
weather-tight, and so as to resist decay or deterioration from any cause.
      (2)   Any commercial or industrial building or secondary or appurtenant
structure whose exterior surface is bare, deteriorated, ramshackle, tumbledown,
decaying, disintegrating or in poor repair must be repaired or razed.
         (a)   All buckled, rotted, or decayed walls, doors, windows, porches,
floors, steps, railing, trim, and their missing members must be replaced and
put in good condition.
         (b)   All replacements must match and conform to original design or be
replaced completely.
         (c)   All exterior wood or exterior unfinished surfaces must be sealed
and painted, or surface covered with other approved protective coating or
treated to prevent rot and decay and conform and match the existing paint or
surface covering and original design or replacement thereof. All exterior walls
and surfaces must be properly protected against the weather where such are
defective or lack weather protection, including lack of paint or surface
covering or have weathered due to lack of proper protective covering.
      (3)   All commercial or industrial building or secondary or appurtenant
structure whose exterior surface is deteriorated, decaying, disintegrating or
whose exterior surface has weathered with dirt and grime or has been impaired
through peeling or flaking of the paint or other protective coating shall be
repaired, repainted, or resurfaced.
         (a)   All exterior surfaces shall be replaced or repaired in good
condition preparatory to repainting or coating.
         (b)   All bare exterior surfaces, which are flaking, or crumbling
shall be replaced or sealed in a good and skillful manner.
         (c)   All new or repaired bare surfaces shall be painted or coated.
         (d)   All exterior surfaces weathered with dirt and grime, or which
are peeling, or flaking shall be painted or covered with approved protective
coating or surface.
      (4)   Presentation of evidence that all exterior surfaces have, not more
than five years prior to the date of inspection, been properly prepared and
painted with at least one coat of good exterior paint or covered with other
approved protective coating or surface shall be prima facie evidence of the
exterior being in good condition.
   (F)   Infestation by pests. All commercial and industrial buildings and the
premises thereof shall be maintained free from sources of breeding, harborage
and infestation by insects, vermin, or rodents.
   (G)   Exterior property areas. No owner or operator of any premises shall
maintain or permit to be maintained at or on the exterior property areas of the
premises any condition which deteriorates or debases the appearance of the
neighborhood; or reduces property values in the neighborhood; or creates a
fire, safety, or health hazard; or which is a public nuisance; including but
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Broken or dilapidated fences, walls, or other structures.
      (2)   Broken, uneven, or improperly maintained walks, driveways, parking
lots, or storage areas.
      (3)   Out of use or non-usable equipment, dilapidated motor vehicles or
parts thereof.
      (4)   Materials placed at or on the premises in such a manner as to be
patently unsightly, grotesque, or offensive to the senses.
      (5)   All parking lots shall be properly maintained free of potholes,
broken curb stops, cracks and visibly striped.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to allow the growth of grass and weeds to exceed
a height of 12 or more. Under such circumstances the business or owner shall be
notified by certified mail of said offense and given three-day notice upon
receipt to make amends. If the weeds or grass are not cut within three days of
receipt of notice, employees shall have the right to enter the premises and cut
them down. The offending party shall then be billed for the cost of this
procedure. If said party does not pay the bill within 30 days of receipt, the
amount of the bill shall be placed upon the real estate tax and shall be a lien
upon the land involved.
      (1)   All landscaping shall be regularly cut and pruned. Any landscape
material that dies shall be immediately replaced with new landscaping of a
similar size and species unless it creates a detriment or hazard.
   (I)   Secondary or appurtenant structures. All secondary or appurtenant
structures such as sheds, barns, garages, and the like, shall either be
maintained in good repair and free from health, accident and fire hazards or
shall be removed from the premises.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
SIGNS
§ 152.100 SIGNS REGULATED.
   (A)   The intent of this subchapter is to regulate all signs within Archbold
to ensure that they are appropriate for their respective uses and locations, in
keeping with the appearance of the subject property and surrounding
environment, and protective of the public health, safety, and general welfare
by:
      (1)   Ensuring sign design that builds on the community character, image,
and historic context.
      (2)   Prohibiting the erection of signs in such numbers, sizes, designs,
illumination, and locations as may create a hazard to pedestrians and
motorists; and
      (3)   Setting standards and providing uniform controls, based on best
practices that permit reasonable use of signage for advertising.
   (B)   No sign shall be permitted in any district except as hereinafter
provided
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.101 SIGN DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Abandoned sign. All signs and supporting structures which located on a
property when the business it advertises ceases to occupy the property.
   (B)   Animated sign. Signs with continuous illumination that may flash,
move, rotate, flicker, blink or scroll unless in accordance with other
regulations in this section.
   (C)   Awning and canopy signs. Any sign painted on, applied, or attached to
an awning or canopy.
   (D)   Banners. A flexible substrate on which copy, or graphics may be
displayed.
   (E)   Changeable copy signs. A sign or portion thereof on which the copy or
symbols are changed manually or digitally through replacement of letters or
symbols on a sign face.
   (F)   Electronic message centers. Signs that include changing messages and
other information, such as time/temperature. Electronic message centers include
but are not limited to traditional incandescent lighting, LEDs, LCDs, or a
flipper matrix.
   (G)   Marquee sign. Any sign attached to a marquee for the purpose of
identifying a use or product.
   (H)   Murals. An image which is restored, painted, installed, or affixed
directly onto a vertical building wall, which shall not contain advertising.
   (I)   Monument signs. Monument signs are permanently anchored in the ground
and supported by a base structure anchored in the ground, are detached from any
building or structure, and whose message and design relate to an activity,
business, or product on the same property where the sign is located. May also
be referred to as a freestanding sign.
   (J)   Off-premises sign. A permanent sign erected, maintained, and used
outdoors for advertising of a product, service, business, or activity which is
sold, located, or conducted elsewhere than on the premises. May also be
referred to as billboard.
   (K)   Pole signs. A sign that is erected upon or permanently supported in a
fixed location by one or more poles or posts, except for temporary signs.
   (L)   Portable sign. A sign designed to be transported or moved and not
permanently anchored to the ground, a building, or other structure.
   (M)   Projecting signs. Projecting signs are two- sided signs that project
perpendicular to the storefront or building.
   (N)   Snipe signs. Any off-premises sign that is tacked, nailed, posted,
pasted, glued, or otherwise attached to trees, poles, stakes, fences, or other
objects, including signs not regulated elsewhere in this section or not
authorized within the right-of-way.
   (O)   Temporary signs. A sign intended to display either commercial or
noncommercial messages of a transitory or temporary nature.
   (P)   Tenant directory sign. Tenant directory signs are used to identify
businesses in multi-tenant buildings or business parks.
   (Q)   Vintage sign. Uniquely designed signage that responds to the history,
architectural design, and/or era of the building or site.
   (R)   Wall signs. Wall signs are anchored and completely supported by
exterior walls.
   (S)   Window signs. Any sign that is applied, painted, or affixed to a
window, or placed inside a window, within two feet of the glass, facing the
outside of the building, and easily seen from the outside. Customary displays
of merchandise or objects and material without lettering behind a store window
are not considered signs.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.102 SIGN GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Sign area. The area of a sign shall mean the area of all lettering,
wording, and accompanying designs, logos, and symbols. The area of a sign shall
not include any supporting framework, bracing or trim which is incidental to
the display, if it does not contain any lettering, wording, or symbols.
      (1)   The area of all permanent signs in the Central Business District
(CBD) shall be equivalent to one and one-quarter square feet of sign area for
each lineal foot of width of the building.
      (2)   The area of all permanent advertising signs in all other areas may
be equivalent to one and one-half square feet of sign area for each lineal foot
of width of a building.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, width shall be measured along the
building face parallel to the primary street right-of-way. In the case of a
corner lot, either building face may be used in determining maximum sign area.
      (4)   The aggregate of all sign area on a site shall not exceed a maximum
of 500 square feet.
      (5)   Where the sign consists of individual letters and/or symbols
attached to a building, awning, wall, or window, the area shall be that of the
smallest rectangle around all letters and symbols.
      (6)   Signs may be double sided. Only one side of the sign shall be
counted when calculating sign area.
   (B)   No freestanding or monument sign shall exceed ten feet as measured
from the highest point of the sign structure to the ground elevation, or the
surface grade beneath the sign, whichever is less or as stipulated in other
sections of these regulations.
   (C)   No building wall shall be used for display of advertising except that
pertaining to the use within such building; except for a restored mural which
may depicted advertising.
   (D)   No part of any sign shall be located within two feet of the back of
the curb.
   (E)   No sign shall be placed in any public right-of-way except publicly
owned signs, traffic control and street signs, unless express permission is
given by the Archbold Engineer.
   (F)   Abandoned signs shall be removed within 30 days by the owner or lessee
of the premises.
   (G)   All signs are subject to the property maintenance §
152.091.
   (H)   Prohibited signs.
      (1)   Abandoned signs.
      (2)   Animated sign.
      (3)   Off-premises sign.
      (4)   Pole signs.
      (5)   Snipe signs on public property and right-of-way may be removed and
disposed of by Archbold.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.103 SIGN REGULATIONS BY TYPE.
   (A)   Awning and canopy signs must be centered above architectural elements
such as windows or doors, or if comprising the length of the building face,
signage shall be centered on the awning or canopy.
      (1)   If the awning or canopy sign is mounted on a multi-tenant building,
all awning or canopy signs shall be consistent in terms of height, projection,
and style across all tenants in the building.
   (B)   Changeable copy signs are permitted only when integrated into a
monument, marquee, wall, or portable sign. Changeable copy lettering shall be
of the same color, size, and font.
   (C)   Electronic message centers. Message center signs are permitted in the
form of monument, and wall signs in accordance with the following:
      (1)   No message center sign may contain text which flashes, pulsates,
moves, or scrolls. Each complete message must fit on one screen.
      (2)   All changes in copy are accomplished in three seconds or less and
must transition by changing instantly (e.g., no fade-out, fade-in, scrolling).
      (3)   Each message or copy remains fixed for at least 20 seconds
      (4)   The sign shall contain a default design which shall freeze the sign
message in one position if a malfunction should occur.
      (5)   The maximum brightness levels for electronic message centers, other
than a shall not exceed 0.02 (two tenths) foot-candles over ambient light
levels measured within 150 feet of the source, consistent with the terms of
this section.
      (6)   Only one electronic message center sign shall be permitted on the
premise. A freestanding electronic message center shall not exceed 50% of the
total allowable square footage for any on premises monument sign.
      (7)   Each sign must have a light sensing device that will automatically
adjust the brightness of the display as the natural ambient light conditions
change.
   (D)   Monument signs.
      (1)   Freestanding sign structure shall have its base located a minimum
of ten feet off the street right-of-way line.
      (2)   Subdivisions, multi-family (ten units or more) and business parks
shall be permitted one identification monument sign per street frontage which
may include the following:
         (a)   Name of the development.
         (b)   Logo or special symbol.
         (c)   Address number.
      (3)   Monument signs shall have no more than 60 square feet on one side.
      (4)   There shall be no more than one monument sign per street frontage.
      (5)   Monument tenant directory signs are permitted in the B-2, M-1 and
M-2 Zoning District. Letter height for the building or development name or logo
shall not exceed ten inches; all others shall not exceed six inches.
   (E)   Marquee signs.
      (1)   Marquee signs may be attached to the top or sides of the marquee.
No part of the marquee sign shall extend below the lowest vertical part of the
marquee.
      (2)   Marquee signs attached to the top of the marquee shall not extend
above the roof line shall not project more than four feet off the building
face.
   (F)   Murals. Murals painted on a wall surface shall not be considered
signage and shall be approved by the municipality.
   (G)   Nonconforming sign. An existing nonconforming sign shall not be
enlarged or replaced with the exception of the sign face. However, any
nonconforming sign that is abandoned shall be removed and replaced with a sign
which conforms to this code.
   (H)   Portable signs. Portable signs are permitted in CBD and B-2 Districts
only and may be placed within public right-of-way or on private property
subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   If a sign is located on a public or private sidewalk, a minimum of
42 inches of unobstructed sidewalk clearance for pedestrians must be maintained
provided such sign does not obstruct traffic or visibility.
      (2)   Only one sign is permitted per business and may not exceed seven
square feet and 42 inches in height.
      (3)   Portable signs shall be weighted or otherwise secured to prevent
movement.
      (4)   Portable signs are only permitted during business operating hours.
      (5)   No permit is required for portable signs.
   (I)   Projecting signs. All projecting signs shall be at least ten feet
above the pavement or sidewalks and shall not project more than four feet from
the face of a building
   (J)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Construction and event signs shall not exceed 24 square feet and
may be erected for a period not to exceed 90 days. Construction related signs
may remain for the duration of the construction period and shall be removed 30
days after completion of construction.
      (2)   Announcement or professional signs for home occupations and
professional activities where permitted shall not exceed four square feet in
any residential "R" Districts.
      (3)   All other temporary signs shall not exceed 12 square feet.
      (4)   Temporary signs shall be removed based on the following schedule:
 
Sign                                 Removal Date
Real estate signs                    14 days after closing
Open house                           72 hours after event
Construction                         30 days after completion
Garage sale and other personal signs 72 hours after event
 
   (K)   Vintage signs. Signs may replicate or restore an iconic sign or sign
type from the past or shall seek to become a piece of art or an architectural
feature. The Zoning Inspector or a citizen board or committee may waive certain
requirements to replicate historically significant features.
   (L)   Wall signs. Wall signs shall meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Shall not project more than 12 inches measured from the face of the
wall off the building.
      (2)   Shall be at least ten feet above the pavement or sidewalk.
      (3)   Signs shall not intrude on or block doors, windows, exhaust fans,
or the like.
      (4)   On multi-story buildings signage for ground floor occupants shall
be located below second floor windowsills.
      (5)   Multi-tenant buildings that have businesses without street frontage
shall be permitted one tenant directory sign which shall not exceed nine square
feet. If there is front and rear access to businesses, the same may be provided
on the rear façade.
   (M)   Window signs may be painted, attached, or hanging within six inches to
the inside of a windows and glass doors facing the street. This type of signage
may contain text, graphic logos, and other images.
      (1)   Maximum area: Twenty-five percent of the total transparent glass
area of windows and doors facing the street and limited to ground floor windows
only.
         (a)   Window signage not exceeding 5% of the total glass area, such as
business name or hours of operation shall be is permitted and will not be
counted toward the total permissible signage square footage.
         (b)   Temporary window signs shall not exceed four square feet.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.104 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   At the intersection of any two streets, the setback of any sign or
outdoor advertising structure shall not be less than ten feet from both
established rights-of-way of the streets and not obstruct traffic visibility.
   (B)   A sign shall not be located within the sight triangle of street
access, driveway or parking lot as determined by the Archbold Engineer.
   (C)   Any monument sign shall have its base located off the street right-of-
way line, at a minimum of ten feet provided such sign does not obstruct traffic
visibility.
   (D)   Real estate signs, church, school, political or any other temporary
sign shall be located a minimum of five feet from the right-of-way line.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.105 SPECIAL YARD PROVISIONS.
   No sign shall be permitted which faces the front or side lot line of any lot
in any "R" District within 50 feet of the lot line, or which faces any, passive
park or entrances to any public park, schools, library, church, or similar
institution, within 150 feet thereof.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.106 ILLUMINATION.
   The following provisions shall be observed in the illumination of signs:
   (A)   All signs may be illuminated internally or externally provided the
source of light is not directly visible.
   (B)   Illumination shall be placed to reflect away from the adjoining
premises and no more than 0.2 foot candle shall be detected at any boundary to
the property.
   (C)   Illumination shall not be so placed as to cause confusion or a hazard
to traffic or conflict with traffic control signs or lights
   (D)   No illumination involving movement, flashing, or causing the illusion
of movement due to the lighting arrangement or other devices shall be
permitted. Electronic message centers are permitted in accordance with §
152.104.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.107 MASTER SIGN PLAN (MULTI-TENANT).
   (A)   A master sign plan regulates signage for multiple businesses or
tenants within one building or development. Maintaining uniformity reinforces
the building or developments unity while still communicating business identity.
A master sign plan is mandatory for all buildings with two or more tenants.
   (B)   Applicability. A master sign plan shall be established at and approved
with the initial site plan applications.
      (1)   Individual zoning permits consistent with owner approved master
sign plan; permits shall be approved by the Zoning Inspector.
      (2)   Abandoned signs shall be replaced with signs consistent with the
master sign plan.
      (3)   Number of nonconforming signs; number and location of signage to be
allocated to each tenant under the new plan and approved sign type.
   (C)   The master sign plan shall establish an allowable area and type of
signage for existing and future tenants.
   (D)   The master sign plan shall establish sign uniformity in terms of
height, proportion, sign type, and background materials and illumination.
Individual business branding through color, fonts and icons may be permitted if
approved by the property owner and established in the master sign plan.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.108 SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A sign permit is required for each sign or sign plan unless otherwise
noted in this section.
   (B)   Each application for a sign permit shall be accompanied by the
following:
      (1)   A drawing showing the design proposed, the size, character and
color of letters, lines and symbols, method of illumination.
      (2)   The exact location of the sign in relation to the building and
property, the details, and specifications for construction.
      (3)   A fee shall accompany each application for a sign permit.
   (C)   Signs not requiring permit.
      (1)   Temporary signs with an area of 12 square feet or less shall not
require a permit.    
      (2)   Portable signs.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.109 SIGN EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Public notices, traffic control signs, wayfinding and other official
signs and notices are exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Directional signs, not containing advertising are exempt from the
maximum square footage requirements and shall be approved by the municipal
engineer.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
SITE PLAN REVIEW
§ 152.120 SITE PLAN REQUIRED.
   Site plan review shall be required for all projects meeting the following
threshold(s):
   (A)   Expansion of an existing commercial, industrial, or multi-family
building or building footprint by 20% or more of gross floor area.
   (B)   New commercial or industrial construction of 1,000 square feet or
more.
   (C)   Property conversions changing use or occupancy category precipitating
compliance with building, parking, or zoning regulations.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.121 MINOR SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Minor site plan review. Required site plans that meet the following
requirements shall be reviewed and approved administratively. The criteria for
building and property improvements that shall be approved administratively are
as follows:
      (1)   Does not require conditional use, zone change, variance, or other
modifications to code requirements; and
      (2)   Construction of 5,000 square feet or less; or
      (3)   Any existing building or properties requiring site improvements.
   (B)   A site plan shall be accompanied by a zoning permit as well as other
applicable forms and shall include at a minimum the following elements:
      (1)   Site location and site data table as prescribed by the Zoning
Inspector.
      (2)   Property survey including location of rights-of-way and easements.
      (3)   Location and dimensions of proposed and existing buildings and
distance from property lines.
      (4)   Parking and circulation layout including number of parking space
required and provided, dimensions of drive aisle and off-street loading areas.
      (5)   Existing topographic elevations on site and on adjacent properties.
This information shall be sufficient to indicate directions of drainage flow.
      (6)   Landscape plan prepared by a licensed Landscape Architect, if
applicable.
      (7)   Additional information as deemed important by the Zoning Inspector
or Engineer.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.122 MAJOR SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Applicability. Sites that exceed minimum thresholds for minor site
plan approval, in accordance shall require site plan review and approval by the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Planning Commission application shall be accompanied by a site
plan and additional forms as directed by the Zoning Inspector and shall contain
a minimum of the following elements:
      (1)   Location map with names and addresses of developer, engineer,
architect, and landscape architect.
      (2)   Property survey including location of rights-of-way and easements.
      (3)   Parking and circulation layout including number of parking space
required and provided, dimensions of drive aisle and off-street loading areas.
      (4)   Location and dimensions of proposed and existing buildings and
distance from property lines.
      (5)   Landscape plan prepared by a licensed landscape architect showing
plant location, species, caliper or size at planting, quantities and spacing.
         (a)   Landscape plans shall also include installation and maintenance
details.
      (6)   Existing topographic elevations on site and on adjacent properties.
This information shall be sufficient to indicate directions of drainage flow.
      (7)   Proposed stormwater management plan and calculations.
      (8)   Proposed building elevations including finished grade, number of
stories and building heights and a chart of materials.
      (9)   Utility location map indicating locations and sizes of all existing
utilities (water lines, storm sewers, and sanitary sewers, and the like and
appurtenances thereto.
         (a)   Plan drawings shall show all right-of-way lines, property lines,
and easements.
      (10)   Utility plans showing locations and sizes, types of material, and
elevations of proposed sewer, water and stormwater lines and structures.
      (11)   All parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily
reserved for public use or reserved in the deeds for the common use of property
owners shall be indicated.
      (12)   Additional reasonable requirements concerning protection of
adjoining activities and ingress-egress control which may include lighting,
signs, traffic studies and economic impact analysis.
   (C)   The site plan application shall not be scheduled and advertised for
public hearing for Planning Commission until the application is deemed complete
by the Zoning Inspector or Engineer.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 152.130 ORGANIZATION.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals (Board) is established by the Municipal Charter
and is an administrative appeal body of a quasi-judicial nature. The Board also
grants variances to requirements of the zoning code or other sections of Title
XV, Land Usage as permitted by these regulations.
   (A)   Appointment. The Board of Zoning Appeals, shall consist of five
electors, appointed upon nomination by the Mayor and approved by Council.
Appointments shall be for five-year terms, beginning January 1. Each member
shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. Vacancies
shall be filled by a majority vote of Council members and shall be the
respective unexpired term. The members of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
serve without compensation.
   (B)   Public meetings. The hearings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be
public. The Board shall conform to the open meeting requirements of R.C. §
121.22 Ohio Sunshine Law.
   (C)   Election of officers. The Board shall organize annually and elect a
President and Vice President. The Zoning Inspector or designee as appointed by
the Board shall serve as the Secretary.
   (D)   Rules. The Board shall adopt from time to time such rules and
regulations, as it may deem necessary to carry into effect the provisions of
this chapter.
   (E)   Quorum. The majority of the members of the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall constitute a quorum. Any decision of the Board must be approved by a vote
of at least a majority of all the members of the Board.
   (F)   Minutes and records. The Secretary shall keep detailed records of
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question; absence or
failures to vote, and setting forth the reasons for the Board decision. Records
of these meetings shall be kept in the Engineering and Zoning Office and shall
be available for examination. Records of meetings shall also be kept in a
manner as to be able to produce a verbatim record of proceedings through audio
or written transcript.
   (G)   Witnesses and documents. The Board shall have the power to subpoena
witnesses, administer oaths, and punish for contempt, and may require the
production of documents, under such regulations as it may establish. However,
appeals to administrative decisions shall be limited to the information
presented to the original decision maker.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.131 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the following powers and it shall be
its duty:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals of a decision or determination made by the
Zoning Inspector or other decision maker in the interpretation of this zoning
code or other provisions of Title XV, Land Usage.
   (B)   To hear and authorize such variances from the provisions or
requirements of Title XV, Land Usage, in accordance with these regulations.
   (C)   To make a determination of boundary lines between zoning districts on
the official Zoning Map when the street or the lot layout differs from the map.
   (D)   Grant an extension to a zoning permit to begin construction, complete
construction or both if there is just cause.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.132 HEARINGS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Public notice. The Board or Secretary for the Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing of an appeal or variance and give at least 15
days' public notice thereof in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality.
   (B)   Notice to property owners. A notice by mail shall be provided 15 days
prior to the hearing to all property owners within 200 feet, with copies of
said notice provided to the Board.
   (C)   The Secretary for the Board shall notify the applicant advising them
of the date, time, and place of the hearing.
      (1)   Failure of the applicant or a representative shall result in
postponement or denial of the request.
   (D)   In the course of its review, the Board may call upon municipal staff
or may refer the application to one or more expert consultants qualified to
advise and provide evidence related to the application or appeal. If necessary,
the applicant shall be advised in advance of external consultant review and
acknowledge that all costs associated shall be borne by the application.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.133 APPEALS TO INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   An appeal to the Board may be taken by any aggrieved party affected by
the decision of the Zoning Inspector or other municipal decision maker.
   (B)   An application for appeal must be filed within 20 days after the
decision of the Zoning Inspector or other decision maker specifying the grounds
thereof for the appeal being transmitted to the Board. The Zoning Inspector
shall transmit to the Board all records and evidence of which was the basis of
original decision being appealed.
   (C)   The Board shall use reasonable judgement in deciding an appeal
considering the intent of the zoning code or other regulations, the facts and
evidence and the interests of both the municipality and the applicant.
   (D)   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
order, requirements, decision, or determination appealed from and shall make
such order, requirement, decision, or determination as in its opinion and shall
have all powers of the Zoning Inspector from whom the appeal is taken.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.134 VARIANCES.
   (A)   An application for a variance shall be filed on forms approved by the
Zoning Inspector. Incomplete applications shall not be set for hearing until
all requested information has been provided.
   (B)   The Board may grant a variance if there is a finding of unnecessary
hardship or practical difficulty based on the strict application of the zoning
code and only if all the following findings are made:
      (1)   That there are unique physical circumstances or conditions,
including irregularity, narrowness, or depth of lot size or shape, or
exceptional topographical or other physical conditions generally created by the
provisions of the zoning chapter in the neighborhood or district in which the
property is located.
      (2)   The granting of the variance is necessary and is not for the
convenience of the property owner, but to preserve the use of the property to
yield a reasonable return on property and not infringe on property rights.
      (3)   That such unnecessary hardship has not been willfully created by
the applicant.
      (4)   That the variance, if authorized, will not alter the essential
character of the neighborhood or district in which the property is located, nor
substantially or permanently impair the appropriate use of development of
adjacent property, nor be detrimental to the public welfare.
      (5)   That the variance if authorized, will represent the minimum
variance that will afford relief and will represent the least modification
possible of the regulation in issue.
      (6)   The Board shall give due regard to the nature and condition of
adjacent uses and may impose conditions as part of its granting of a variance
to protect adjacent properties and the health, safety, and welfare of the
municipality.
   (C)   Finding of fact. The Boards decision shall include a finding of fact
based on the above referenced criteria and include conditions of approval, if
any, in its final vote and decision. The finding of fact shall list the facts
and reasons based on the evidence for approval, approval with conditions, or
disapproval and shall be entered included in the official minutes of the
hearing.
   (D)   A variance shall expire if not acted on within two years and may be
revoked by the Board if any of the conditions of approval are violated. An
extension of one year may be granted for just cause at the discretion of the
Board.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.135 DECISION OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   A certified copy of the Board's decision shall be transmitted to all
parties in interest. Such decision shall be binding upon the Zoning Inspector
or other decision maker and shall be incorporated into the terms and conditions
of the same in the permit to the applicant or appellant, whenever a permit is
authorized by the Board.
   (B)   Any interpretation of the zoning code or official Zoning Map, made by
the Board shall be deemed the official interpretation from that point forward.
The final interpretation shall be recorded and provided to the Planning
Commission and Council.
   (C)   Any party adversely affected by a decision of the Board may appeal to
the Court of Common Pleas of the county, on the grounds that the decision was
unreasonable or unlawful.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 152.140 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Appointment. There shall be a Planning Commission which will consist
of five members. Three of the five members will serve three-year terms.
Appointments will be made by the mayor with the approval of Council. The Mayor
and one member of Council appointed annually by the mayor with concurrence of
Council will complete the Commission.
   (B)   Public meetings. Meetings of the Commission shall be public and
conform to the open meeting requirements of R.C. § 121.22 Ohio Sunshine Law.
   (C)   Election of officers. The Commission shall organize annually and elect
a Chair and Vice Chair. The Zoning Inspector shall serve as the Secretary.
   (D)   Rules. The Commission may adopt from time to time such rules and
regulations, as it may deem necessary to carry into effect the provisions of
this chapter.
   (E)   Quorum. The majority of the members of the Planning Commission shall
constitute a quorum. Any decision of the Commission must be approved by a vote
of at least a majority of all the members.
   (F)   Minutes and records. The Commission designate a secretary for
recordkeeping who may or may not be a member of the Commission. The Secretary
shall keep detailed records of proceedings, showing the vote of each member;
absence or failures to vote, and conditions of approval. Records of these
meetings shall be kept in the Engineering and Zoning office and shall be
available for examination.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.141 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   To initiate and review amendments to the Zoning Code and Zoning Map
and make recommendations to Council.
   (B)   To approve or disapprove conditional use applications.
   (C)   To approve or disapprove matters related to nonconforming uses.
   (D)   To approve or disapprove major subdivision, preliminary plats.
   (E)   To approve or disapprove major site plan applications. The Commission
may also refer a major site plan applications to Council final approval.
   (F)   To act in the capacity of the local planning agency and review
comprehensive plans and other planning documents as requested by Council.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.142 PROCEDURES FOR ZONING CHANGE.
   (A)   Procedure. Applications for any change of district boundaries or
classifications of property as shown on the zoning map shall be filed on forms
approved by the Zoning Inspector and shall be accompanied by such data and
information as may be prescribed, so as to assure the fullest practicable
presentation of facts for the Commission's consideration. Such application
shall be verified by at least one of the owners or lessees of property within
the area proposed to be reclassified, attesting to the truth and correctness of
all facts and information presented with the applications.
   (B)   Public hearing by Planning Commission. Before submitting its
recommendation on a proposed zoning amendment to Council, the Commission shall
hold a public hearing thereon, duly noticed at least 30 days in advance.
      (1)   Public notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality at least 30 days before the date of the
hearing. The notice shall state the time and place of the public hearing and
location at which the proposed amendment to the ordinance, including text and
maps, may be examined.
      (2)   Notice to property owners.
         (a)   Notice of public hearing shall be given to owners of all
properties lying within 200 feet of any part of the property proposed to be
changed. Said notice shall give notice of time, place, and purpose of public
the hearing on the proposed amendment(s), by mail not less than 20 days prior
to the date of the hearing.
         (b)   Failure to notify, as provided in this section, shall not
invalidate any recommendations adopted hereunder; it being the intention of
this section to provide due notice to the persons substantially interested in
the proposed change.
   (C)   Action of Planning Commission. The Commission may recommend the
application be granted as requested, modified, or denied. These recommendations
shall then be certified to the Clerk and Council within 30 days of hearing.
      (1)   Voting by the Planning Commission on a zoning change shall take a
three-fourths majority of voting members present to pass a motion, with a
minimum of four present to conduct business.
      (2)   The Commission may recommend special conditions, which shall be
applied to a specific parcel(s) of land or land use, which the applicant
intends to place on the property. The special conditions shall be so specified
in the recommendation to Council.
   (D)   Public hearing by Council. After receiving from the Planning
Commission, the certification of the recommendations on the proposed amendment,
and before adoption of such amendment, the Council shall hold a public hearing
thereon.
      (1)   At least 30 days prior to the hearing a notice of the time and
place of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper, of general
circulation in the municipality, once a week for two weeks. The notice shall
state the place or places and times at which the proposed amendment to the
zoning regulations including text and maps which may be examined.
      (2)   Notice to property owners.
         (a)   Notice of public hearing shall be given to owners of all
properties lying within 200 feet of any part of the property proposed to be
changed. Said notice shall give notice of time, place, and purpose of public
the hearing on the proposed amendment(s), by mail not less than 20 days prior
to the date of the hearing.
         (b)   Failure to notify, as provided in this section, shall not
invalidate any recommendations adopted hereunder; it being the intention of
this section to provide due notice to the persons substantially interested in
the proposed change.
   (E)   Action by Council.
      (1)   After receiving from the Planning Commission certification of the
recommendations on the proposed amendment and after holding the above public
hearing, the Council shall consider an ordinance specifying the zoning
amendment and any conditions or modifications thereof and vote on the passage
of the proposed amendment to the text of or the zoning map.
      (2)   No such ordinance, measure or regulation which differs from or
departs from the plan or report submitted by the Commission, Board, or Officer
shall take effect unless passed or approved by not less than three-fourths of
the members of Council.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.143 CONDITIONAL USE.
   (A)   Under the authorization granted in R.C. Chapter 713 and by Council,
the Planning Commission shall have the authority to decide applications for
conditional uses specified in §
152.031, Master Use Table.
      (1)   In considering such applications the Planning Commission shall give
due regard to the nature and condition of all adjacent uses and structures and
may impose such requirements and conditions as the Planning Commission may deem
necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public interest,
including specific limitations as to future expansion.
   (B)   The following basic standards shall apply to conditional uses in all
districts:
      (1)   The location and size of the use.
      (2)   The nature and intensity of the operations involved in or conducted
in connection with it.
      (3)   Its site layout and its relation to streets giving access to it
shall be such that both pedestrian and vehicular traffic to and from the use
and the
assembly of persons in connection with it will not be obviously hazardous,
inconvenient or conflict with the normal traffic on residential streets.
      (4)   Consistency with the Comprehensive Plan.
      (5)   Consideration shall also be made for current and projected impacts
including increases in population, convenient routes of pedestrian traffic,
approved but not constructed development plans, and the general character and
intensity of development of the area.
      (6)   The location and height of buildings, the location, nature, and
height of walls and fences, and the nature and extent of landscaping on the
site shall be such that the use will not hinder or discourage the appropriate
development and use of adjacent land and buildings.
      (7)   Convenience of access by prospective patrons and employees, the
physical and economic relationships of one type of use to another, and
characteristic groupings of uses in a commercial or industrial district.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall follow the procedures as outlined in §
152.145.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.144 NONCONFORMING USES.
   It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission to make decisions regarding
nonconforming uses pursuant to §
152.060, Nonconforming Uses.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.145 PROCEDURES FOR HEARINGS.
   (A)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Unless otherwise stated in this Code, the Commission shall hold a
public hearing thereon, notice of which shall be given by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality at least 15 days before
the date of the hearing. The notice shall state the place or places and times
at which the proposed conditional use application shall be considered.
      (2)   Notice to property owners.
         (a)   Notice of public hearing shall be given to owners of all
properties lying within 200 feet of any part of the property proposed to be
changed. Said notice shall give notice of time, place, and purpose of public
the hearing on the proposed amendment(s), by mail not less than 20 days prior
to the date of the hearing.
         (b)   Failure to notify, as provided in this section, shall not
invalidate any recommendations adopted hereunder; it being the intention of
this section to provide due notice to the persons substantially interested in
the proposed change.
   (B)   Action of Planning Commission. The Commission may approve the
application as requested, approve with conditions, or deny. If the specific
land use is not under construction within two years from date of approval, the
conditional use will become invalid. Voting by the Planning Commission shall
require a majority of voting members to pass a motion.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.150 ZONING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Inspector or designee, to enforce
this chapter. It shall also be the duty of all officials and employees of the
municipality to assist the Zoning Inspector by reporting new construction,
reconstruction, or land uses or upon seeing violations.
   (B)   Appeal from the decision of the Planning/Zoning Inspector may be made
to the Board of Zoning Appeals, as provided in §
152.133.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.151 ZONING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to use or to permit the use of any
structure, building or land, or part thereof, created, erected, changed,
converted, or enlarged, wholly or partly, unless a zoning permit has been
issued by the Zoning Inspector. It shall be the duty of the Zoning Inspector to
issue a permit, provided that the structure, building or premises, and the
proposed use thereof conform with all the requirements of this chapter. No
permit for excavation, construction or reconstruction shall be issued by the
Zoning Inspector unless the plans, specifications and the intended use conform
to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon written request from the owner or tenant, the Zoning Inspector
shall provide a zoning letter for any building or premises existing at the time
of enactment of this chapter certifying, after inspection, the use of the land,
building or premises conforms to the provisions of this chapter or is deemed
legally nonconforming due to its existence prior to enactment of this chapter
and in compliance with §
152.060, Nonconforming Uses.
   (C)   A zoning permit issued shall be void unless construction is commenced
within one year after date of issuance and unless construction is completed
within two years after the date of issuance. However, the Board of Zoning
Appeals may, for just cause be authorized to extend either or both of the time
periods upon written application. No zoning permit issued shall be extended
beyond four years.
   (D)   A zoning permit shall be required for any of the following:
      (1)   Construction or alteration of any building or structure, including
accessory buildings.
      (2)   Change in use of an existing building, accessory structure or land
to a different use or classification per the Wood County Building Code.
      (3)   Occupancy and use of vacant land.
      (4)   Any change in an existing legal nonconforming use.
      (5)   Site improvements such as parking lots, driveways and swimming
pools.
      (6)   Annexed lands whereby construction commenced prior to annexation.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.152 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Written application for a zoning permit shall be filed on forms
approved by the Zoning Inspector including any additional information
prescribed by the Zoning Inspector. Zoning permits not requiring Board or
Commission after filing and given completeness, provided such construction or
alteration is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Every application for a zoning permit shall be accompanied by a
sketch, and such other plans as may be necessary to show the location and type
of building improvement or alterations to be made. Supplemental permit
requirements may be established by the Zoning Inspector for different permit
types
      (1)   Each plan shall show:
         (a)   The street providing access to the lot and cross street.
         (b)   The actual dimensions of the lot, the yard and other open space
dimensions thereof, and the location and size of any existing structure
thereon.
         (c)   The location and size of the proposed structure, and/or the
proposed enlargement of the existing structure, and all other existing
structures and improvements on the site.
         (d)   Any other information, which in the judgment of the Planning/
Zoning Inspector may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of this
chapter.
      (2)   Each plan shall bear statements declaring:
         (a)   That no part of the land involved in the application has been
previously used to provide required setback space or lot area for another
structure.
         (b)   Location of property lines, easements and other instruments
regarding real property are not the responsibility of the municipality. Should
any approved permit or structure conflict with legal lot lines and locations;
it is a civil matter and Archbold shall be held harmless.
      (3)   Where complete and accurate information is not readily available
from existing records, the Zoning Inspector may request the applicant furnish a
survey of the lot by a registered engineer or surveyor.
         (a)   Each property owner or authorized agent shall be required to
attest to the correctness of the statements and data furnished with the
application.
         (b)   A file of such applications and plans shall be kept in the
office of the Zoning Inspector.
   (C)   The Zoning Inspector shall not issue a zoning permit for any
application requiring consideration or approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals
and Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.153 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION PROVISIONS.
   The Zoning Inspector shall review all zoning permit applications for new
construction or substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building
sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed building site is in
a location that has a flood hazard, any proposed new construction or
substantial improvement (including prefabricated and manufactured homes) must
comply with the requirements of
Chapter 150: Flood Damage Prevention.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.154 FEE FOR DEVELOPMENT REVIEW AND ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   Schedule of fees. The Council shall establish a schedule of fees,
charges, and expenses, and a collection procedure for all applications,
permits, appeals, and other matters pertaining to this title. The schedule of
fees shall be posted at the Engineering and Zoning Department and may be
altered from time to time by Council.
   (B)   Zoning fees. Each applicant shall pay a non-refundable submittal fee
at the time of application. This fee is intended to as an administrative
processing fee for initial review of a permit or development application. This
fee does not include material costs such as publication and postage.
   (C)   Cost recovery. Material costs incurred such as advertising and postage
as well as professional services such as legal, engineering, or planning
consultants required for application review shall be the responsibility of the
applicants and shall be reimbursed to the municipality at cost.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.155 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Zoning Inspector shall serve as the primary enforcement officer in
administering the enforcement of the zoning code and property maintenance code.
   (B)   The Zoning Inspector shall issue all necessary notices or orders to
ensure compliance with the Code.
   (C)   The Zoning Inspector may call upon any department for whatever
assistance may be necessary to abate a violation of the property maintenance
code.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 152.156 VIOLATIONS; AFFECTED PARTIES.
   In case any building is or is proposed to be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, enlarged, changed, maintained or used, or any land is or is
proposed to be used in violation of this chapter or any amendment or supplement
thereto, the Zoning Inspector, Legal Counsel, or any adjacent or neighboring
property owner who would be specially damaged by such violation, in addition to
other remedies provided by law, may institute injunction, mandamus, abatement,
or any other appropriate action, or proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate or
remove such unlawful location, construction, reconstruction, enlargement,
change, maintenance or use.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
DEFINITIONS
§ 152.170 DEFINITIONS.
   Where a proposed use or term is not specifically identified by this Code,
the Zoning Inspector may find a use or term similar to another use or term as
defined and apply the Code accordingly. Similarly, uses and activities that
this Code specifically prohibits in the subject zone, and uses and activities
that are similar to those that are prohibited, shall not be permitted.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A separate, complete housekeeping unit with a
separate entrance, kitchen, sleeping area, and full bathroom facilities, which
is an attached or detached extension to an existing single-family structure or
place of business.
   ACCESSORY USE or STRUCTURE. A use or structure that is subordinate in size
or purpose to the principal structure or use of the same lot or parcel of
ground and serving a purpose customarily incidental to the use of the principal
structure or use of land.
   ADULT BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS. Bookstores, bars, lounges, restaurants,
theaters, or shops, which have more than 20% of their stock in trade, or fare,
books, pictures, slides, films, media of electronic visual portrayal, or live
entertainment, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter or live conduct depicting, describing, exposing, or relating to sexual
activities or anatomical areas.
   AGRICULTURE. Agriculture shall include farming, dairying, pasturage,
agriculture, horticulture, viticulture, animal and poultry husbandry and the
processing and sale of agriculture products from land under same ownership or
leased.
   ALLEY. A public or private dedicated way intended for vehicular service to
the rear or side of property served by a street.
   ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building or structure
or any exterior siding or architectural features to an existing building for
the purpose of beautifying and modernizing
   ANIMAL BOARDING. Any structure, land, or combination thereof used for the
boarding or care of dogs, cats, pets, fowl, horses, or other domestic animals
for profit,
   ANIMAL GROOMING. Any place or establishment where animals are bathed,
clipped, or combed for the purpose of enhancing their aesthetic value or health
and for a fee.
   APPURTENANCE. The visible, functional, or ornamental objects accessory to
and part of a building.
   AUCTION YARD. A place where vehicles, operable or inoperable, are offered
for sale to persons who bid on the vehicles in competition with each other.
   AUTOMOTIVE AND VEHICULAR REPAIR. General repair; engine rebuilding;
rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles; collision services such as
body, frame or fender straightening and repair; overall painting; and vehicle
rustproofing. This includes motorcycles and other small engine vehicles.
   AUTOMOTIVE SALES. The sale or rental of new or used motor vehicles or
trailers.
   AWNING (CANOPY). A roofed structure constructed of fabric or other material
supported by the building or by supports directly under the canopy placed so as
to extend outward from the building providing a protective shield for doors,
windows, and other openings.
   BED & BREAKFAST INN. A house, or portion thereof, where short-term lodging
rooms and meals are provided. The operator of the inn shall live on the
premises.
   BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals of Archbold, Ohio.
   BUFFER AREA. A landscaped area intended to separate and partially obstruct
the view of two adjacent land uses or properties from one another.
   BUILD TO LINE. A line established a certain distance from the back of
sidewalk at which the front of the building shall be built.
   BUILD TO ZONE. An area established a certain distance from the back of
sidewalk to a minimum and maximum line within which (the zone) the front of the
building shall be built.
   BUILDING. An enclosed structure having a roof and foundation for a wide
variety of activities, such as storage living, entertaining, or manufacturing.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The line along the face of the building nearest the front
line of the lot. This face includes porches whether enclosed or unenclosed but
does not include steps.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance between the finished grade and
the highest point of the building proper, exclusive of any accessory roof
construction such as a chimney, steeple, or antenna.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which the building is situated.
   BUSINESS SERVICES. Any activity conducted for gain which renders services
primarily to other commercial or industrial enterprises, or which services and
repairs appliances and machines used in homes or businesses.
   CANOPY. See AWNING.
   CEMETERY. Land used or dedicated to the burial of the dead, including
crematoriums, mausoleums, necessary sales, and maintenance facilities.
Mortuaries shall be included when operated within the boundary of such
cemetery.
   CHANGE OF USE. Any change to a zoning use category or change to the Use and
Occupancy Classification pursuant to the Ohio Building Code
   CLUB. A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated by a
corporation, association, person, or persons for a social, educational, or
recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which
is customarily carried on as a business.
   COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES. Any activity conducted for gain, which
is generally related to the entertainment field, such as theaters, nightclubs,
arcades, and similar entertainment activities.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Recreational facilities open to the
public, established, and operated for a profit, such as commercial golf
courses, golf driving ranges, swimming pools, ice skating rinks, riding
stables, racetracks, carnivals, and similar commercial enterprises.
   COMMERCIAL USE. An occupation, employment, or enterprise that is carried on
for profit by the owner, lessee, or licensee.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of Archbold, Ohio.
   COMMUNITY GARDEN. A private or public facility for cultivation of fruits,
flowers, vegetables, or ornamental plants by more than one person in a communal
setting.
   COMMUNITY SERVICES. Noncommercial services provided for the benefit of the
community and/or special populations including health, recreation, food
distribution and other resources provided for the community.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The most current, adopted official plan of Council of a
local that sets forth goals, policies, and guidelines intended to direct the
present and future physical, social, and economic development within the
municipality.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use, which is subject to approval by the Planning
Commission. A conditional use may be granted by the Planning Commission only
when there is a specified provision allowing for it in this code. A conditional
use is not a use permitted by right and is not considered to be a nonconforming
use.
   CONDOMINIUM ASSOCIATION. The community association, which administers and
maintains the common property and common elements of a condominium.
   CONDOMINIUMS. A building, or group of buildings, in which units are owned
individually, and the structure, common areas and facilities are owned by all
the owners on a proportional, undivided basis. Real estate is not a condominium
unless the undivided interests in the common elements are vested in the unit
owners. Both residential condominiums and commercial condominiums exist.
   CONSTRUCTION SUPPLIES, SALES AND STORAGE. Retail and wholesale lumber yards
and incidental millwork, storage facilities for building materials such as
sand, gravel, stone, lumber, and sale or rental of contractor's equipment.
   COTTAGE FOOD PRODUCTION OPERATOR. A person who, in the person's home,
produces food items that are not potentially hazardous foods, including bakery
products, jams, jellies, candy, fruit butter, and similar products specified in
rules of the State of Ohio.
   COUNCIL. The Council of Archbold, Ohio.
   CRAFT MANUFACTURING. Craftsman studios and limited production handmade
goods; uses providing instruction and/or retail sales related to painting,
sculpting, photography, picture framing, knitting, sewing, literature, theater,
music, specialty foods or catering, or similar uses.
   CRYPTOCURRENCY MINING. The operation of specialized computer equipment for
the purpose of mining one or more blockchain-based cryptocurrencies, such as
Bitcoin. This activity typically involves the solving of algorithms as part of
the development and maintenance of a blockchain which is a type of distributed
ledger maintained on a peer-to-peer network. Typical physical characteristics
of cryptocurrency mining include specialized computer hardware for mining
operations as well as equipment to cool the hardware and operating space. For
the purposes of the associated regulations, cryptocurrency mining does not
include the exchange of cryptocurrency or any other type of virtual currency.
   CULTURAL CENTER. Services to the public, such as but not limited to museums,
art galleries, and libraries by a public or private, nonprofit facility.
   DAY CARE CENTER, ADULT. A state licensed facility to provide necessary care
and supervision to persons 18 years of age or older on less than a 24-hour
basis. Adult day care centers include the various types of adult day services
as defined under state law and periodically amended, which includes "adult day
care facilities, adult social day care facilities, and adult day health care
facilities."
   DAY CARE CENTER, CHILD. A state licensed facility, other than a family day
care home, providing non-medical care and supervision to children less than 18
years of age on less than a 24-hour basis. Child day care centers shall include
"day care centers" as defined under state law and periodically amended, which
includes infant centers, preschools, and extended day care facilities.
   DISH ANTENNA. A device incorporating a reflective surface that is solid,
open mesh, or bar configured and is in the shape of a shallow dish, cone, horn,
or cornucopia. Such device shall be used to transmit and/or receive radio or
electromagnetic waves between terrestrially and/or orbitally based uses. This
definition is meant to include but not be limited to what are commonly referred
to as satellite earth stations, TVROs (television reception only satellite dish
antennas), and satellite microwave antennas.
   DISTRICTS, ZONING DISTRICTS. Administrative tracts designating the uses to
which land can legally be utilized. Boundaries of the districts are shown on
the "district map" which is part of this chapter.
   DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE. Any retail or commercial service providing services
to patrons seated in an automobile or other vehicle. Said service may be in
conjunction with or irrespective of other forms of service such as walk in or
delivery.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof, which is designated for or used
for residential purposes.
      MULTI-FAMILY. A building used or designed as a residence for four or more
families living independently of each other and doing their own cooking
therein, including apartment houses, garden apartments and row houses.
      SINGLE-FAMILY. Detached, individual dwelling units, which accommodate one
family related by blood, adoption, marriage, or common law partnership: or up
to five unrelated individuals living as one housekeeping unit. The type of
construction of such units shall conform to the Ohio Residential Code.
      SINGLE-FAMILY, ATTACHED. A building on its own separate lot containing
one dwelling unit that occupies space from the ground to the roof and is
attached to one or more other dwelling units by at least one common wall. This
includes townhomes and villas.
      TWO- AND THREE-FAMILY. A building containing no more than three units,
each of which has primary access to the outside and which are attached to each
other by party walls on a single lot. The type of construction of such units
shall conform to the Ohio Residential Code.
   EASEMENT. The right of a person, government agency, or public utility
company to use public or private land owned by another for a specific purpose.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES. Buildings and facilities which provide public safety and
emergency services, such as, but not limited to, fire stations, police
stations, and emergency medical and ambulance service.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Public or private utilities or municipal or other
governmental agencies of underground gas, electrical or water transmission or
distribution systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems,
including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, traffic signals, hydrants
and other similar equipment and accessories reasonable in connection therewith
for the furnishing of adequate service by such public utility or municipal
department or commission for the public health or general welfare, but not
including buildings other than such buildings as are primarily enclosures or
shelters of the above essential service equipment.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a dwelling, living as a single
housekeeping unit, and doing their own cooking on the premises as distinguished
from a group occupying a boarding house or hotel, as herein defined.
   FEE SIMPLE. A form of land ownership that includes all property rights to
land and structures.
   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of wood, masonry, stone, wire,
metal, or other manufactured material or combination of materials erected to
enclose, screen, or separate areas.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel and the relatively flat area adjoining the channel
of a natural stream or river which has been or may be covered by floodwater.
   FLOOR AREA, RESIDENTIAL. For the purposes of computing the minimum allowable
floor area in a residential dwelling unit, the sum of the horizontal areas of
each story of the building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior
wall. The floor area measurement is exclusive of areas of basements, attics,
garages, breezeways, and porches.
   FOOD PROCESSING. The preparation, processing, or canning and packaging of
food products.
   FRONTAGE. The minimum linear or curvilinear distance between the
intersection of the side lot lines and the front lot line.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed or used for the storage of
motor-driven vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which
it is accessory. Not more than one of the vehicles may be a commercial vehicle
of more than two-ton capacity.
   GARAGE SALE. All general sales, open to the public, conducted from or on
residential premises in any residential zone, as defined in the Zoning Code,
for the purpose of disposing of personal property, including, but not limited
to, all sales entitled "garage," "lawn," "yard," "attic," "porch," "room,"
"backyard," "patio," or "rummage" sale. The sale of personal property that is
conducted on premises within a residential district upon which is located a
dwelling.
   GAS STATION, SERVICE STATION. Any building, structure, or land used for the
dispensing, and offering for retail sales automobile fuels, oils, or accessory
services and including car washes. Does not include auto or motorized vehicle
repair.
   GROUP HOME. A facility wherein: a) the operator is not legally related to
the individuals supervised and is licensed by the federal, state, or county
agency and wherein; b) one or more individuals is provided with room, board,
specialized and distinctive care, and supervision in a family environment, or
where five or more individuals reside and are provided with room, board,
ordinary care, and supervision in a family environment.
   HIGHWAY, MAJOR. A street or road of considerable continuity and used
primarily as a traffic artery for intercommunication among large areas.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory use of a dwelling unit, conducted entirely
within the dwelling unit, by one or more persons, all of whom reside  within
the dwelling unit, and where no persons are employed other than the resident
and domestic help. The use may increase vehicular traffic flow and parking by
no more than one additional vehicle at a time.
   HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION. A community association which is organized within a
development in which individual owners share common interests and
responsibilities for open space, landscape, or facilities.
   HOSPITAL. An institution where sick or injured persons are given medical
care and, during same, are housed overnight, fed, and provided nursing,
surgical and other related services.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging or boarding and lodging are provided and
offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and
from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person
in charge at all hours. As such, it is open to the public in contrast to a
boarding house or a lodging house that are herein separately defined.
   INSTITUTIONAL. Buildings or land occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a
nonprofit establishment for public use.
   LAND USE PLAN. The long-range plan for the desirable use of land in the area
as adopted by the Planning Commission and Council; the purpose of such plan
being, among other purposes, to serve as a guide in future development and
zoning for the community.
   LANDSCAPE AREA. An area set aside from structures and parking which is
developed with natural materials (i.e., lawns, trees, shrubs, vines, hedges,
bedding plants, rock)
   LAW DIRECTOR, LEGAL COUNSEL. An attorney representing or appointed by
Archbold, Ohio.
   LITTER. Litter includes, but is not limited to, any garbage, waste, peelings
of vegetables or fruits, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons,
boxes, parts of automobiles, bicycles, wagons, furniture, glass, oil of an
unsightly or unsanitary nature, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary
nature.
   LOADING SPACE. A space within the main building or on the same lot
therewith, providing for the standing, loading, or unloading of trucks and
having a minimum dimension of 12 by 60 feet and a vertical clearance of at
least 14 feet.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter, including one main building together with its accessory
buildings, the open spaces and parking spaces required by this chapter, and
having its principal frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved
place.
   LOT COVERAGE. The area of a lot covered by structures or buildings,
expressed as a percentage of the total lot area
   LOT, MINIMUM AREA OF. The area of a lot computed exclusive of any portion of
the right-of-way of any public thoroughfare.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot whose existence, location, and dimensions have been
legally recorded or registered in a deed or on a plat.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot at the building setback line measured at right
angles to its depth.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A building unit or assembly of closed construction that
is fabricated in an off-site facility and constructed in conformance with the
federal construction and safety standards established by the secretary of
housing and urban development pursuant to the "Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974," 88 Stat. 700, 42 U.S.C.A. 5401,
5403, and that has a permanent label or tag affixed to it, as specified in 42
U.S.C.A. 5415, certifying compliance with all applicable federal construction
and safety standards.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS. An area designed to accommodate manufactured homes
and mobile homes in a safe, sanitary, and desirable manner as described in §
152.032.
   MANUFACTURING, GENERAL. Any manufacturing or industrial production which by
the nature of the materials, equipment and process utilized are not
objectionable by reason of odor, radiation, noise, vibration, gas fumes, dust,
smoke, refuse matter or water-carried waste. Any manufacturing or industrial
process permitted in an "M-2" District shall comply with the performance
requirements of §
152.071, and the applicable regulation of the Ohio EPA.
   MANUFACTURING, RESTRICTED. Any manufacturing, employment, or industrial
production which by the nature of the materials, equipment and process utilized
are non-polluting, quiet, and free of any objectionable or hazardous element.
Restricted industrial uses shall comply with the performance requirements
specified in §
152.071, and the applicable regulation of the Ohio EPA, and may include
processing and assembly of glass products, small household appliances,
electronic products, and parts for production of finished equipment, research
and testing laboratories, printing and engraving plants, commercial bakeries,
and call centers.
   MARQUEE. A permanent structure, other than a roof or canopy, attached to,
supported by, and projecting from a building and providing protection from the
elements.
   MEDICAL OFFICE/CLINIC. A building or office designed and used for the
diagnosis and treatment of human patients that does not include overnight care
facilities.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION, STORAGE AND PROCESSING. Any mining, quarrying, or
processing of limestone sand, gravel, or other mineral resources.
   MIXED USE. A tract of land or building or structure developed for two or
more different uses such as, but not limited to, residential, office,
manufacturing, retail, public, or entertainment.
   MOBILE HOME. A building unit or assembly of closed construction that is
fabricated in an off-site facility, built on a permanent movable chassis which
is eight feet or more in width and more than 35 feet in length, which when
erected on site is 320 or more square feet, and is transportable in one or more
sections and does not qualify as a manufactured home or industrialized unit as
defined in R.C. § 3781.06.
   MODULAR UNIT. A building unit or assembly of closed construction fabricated
in an off-site facility, as a structure or as a component(s) of a greater
structure and that requires transportation to the site of intended use.
Industrialized unit includes units installed on the site as independent units,
as part of a group of units, or incorporated with standard construction methods
to form a completed structural entity. Industrialized unit does not include a
manufactured or mobile home as defined herein and shall meet the requirements
of the Ohio Building Code or Ohio Residential Code
   MORTUARY. An establishment providing services such as preparing the human
dead for burial and arranging and managing funerals and may include limited
caretaker facilities.
   MOTEL. A building or series of buildings in which lodging is offered for
compensation, and which is distinguished from a hotel primarily by reason of
providing direct independent access to, and adjoining parking for, each rental
unit.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Any powered vehicle, which is required to be licensed by the
state.
   MURAL. A large image which is painted, constructed, or affixed directly onto
a vertical building wall, which shall not contain advertising with the
exception of restored painted wall signs of a historic nature that may contain
advertising.
   NONCOMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Private and semipublic recreational
facilities which are not operated for commercial gain, including private
country clubs, riding clubs, golf courses and other private noncommercial
recreation areas and facilities or recreation centers including private
community swimming pools.
   NONCONFORMING USE. The use of land or a building, or portion thereof, which
does not conform to the use regulations of the district in which it is
situated.
   OFFICE. A building or portion of a building where services are performed
involving predominantly administrative, professional, or clerical operations.
   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. Any parking space located wholly off any street,
alley, or sidewalk, either in an enclosed building or on an open lot, exclusive
of access drives or aisles.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. The keeping, in an unroofed area, of any goods, junk,
material, merchandise, or vehicles in the same place for more than 24 hours.
   OUTDOOR WOOD-BURNING FURNACE. A freestanding accessory structure housing a
wood-burning furnace, with a smokestack, used to provide heat or hot water to a
building, other accessory structure, swimming pool or hot tub via liquid or
other means. Said structure must include a smokestack height at least as high
as the highest point of any roof of any residential building within 500 feet of
the furnace. This definition does not include a fire pit, wood-fired barbecue
or chimenea.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Any enterprise conducted for gain, which primarily offers
services to the public such as shoe repair, watch, repairing, barber shop,
beauty parlors and similar activities.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A development of land that is under unified control and
is planned and developed as a whole in a single development operation or
programmed series of development stages. The development may include streets,
circulation ways, utilities, buildings, open spaces, and other site features
and improvements.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of Archbold.
   PLANT CULTIVATION. The cultivation of crops, fruit trees, nursery stock,
truck garden products and similar plant materials outside or inside of
structures, such as greenhouses.
   PROFESSIONAL OR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES. The use of offices and related
spaces for such professional services as are provided by, lawyers, architects,
engineers, real estate, financial services, and the like provided that no
merchandising, retail, or wholesale is conducted on site
   PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY. Buildings, power plants or substations, water
treatment plants or pumping stations, sewage disposal or pumping plants and
other similar public service structures owned by a public utility, by a
railroad, whether publicly or privately owned, or by a municipal or other
governmental agency, including the furnishing of electrical, gas, rail
transport, communication, public water, and sewage disposal services, including
publicly owned or leased administrative offices.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS. A building, together with its accessory buildings
and use, where persons regularly assemble for religious purposes and related
social events. This includes parochial schools, churches, and other houses of
worship.
   RESEARCH AND TESTING. Research, development, and testing laboratories that
do not involve the mass manufacture, fabrication, processing, or sale of
products. Such uses shall not violate any performance standards as established
in this Zoning Code.
   RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY. A facility consisting of independent and semi-
independent dwelling units, each occupied by not more than two residents per
dwelling unit, aged 55 years or older; said facility shall have available on-
site passive and active recreational facilities, supervised and unsupervised
activities, housekeeping assistance, and full-time medical personnel to provide
medical services, including but not limited to dietary and nutritional
assistance and nursing care.
   RESTAURANTS AND BARS. A commercial establishment where food and/or beverages
are prepared, served, and consumed primarily within the principal building.
   RETAIL SALES. Sale of commodities or goods in small quantities to ultimate
consumers and is the industry of such selling.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it may include curbs, lawn strips, sidewalks,
lighting, and drainage facilities, and may include special features (required
by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped areas,
viaducts, and bridges which is public in nature.
   RV PARK. A parcel of land in which five or more campsites are designated for
temporary occupancy by recreational vehicles for travel, recreational or
vacation uses. Such parks shall be construed to include those parks having
sites for tent camping as well as for RV campers. Also referred to as
campgrounds.
   SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY. A building or group of buildings in a
controlled access compound that contains varying sizes of individual,
compartmentalized, and controlled access stalls or lockers for the storage of
customer's goods or wares.
   SETBACK. The minimum distance from the back of sidewalk or public right-of-
way line to the nearest point of the allowable principal building footprint.
   SIGN. Any device designated to inform or attract the attention of persons
not on the premises on which the sign is located. Sign types are defined in §
152.101
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign, which directs attention to a business,
profession, commodity, or entertainment, conducted, sold, or offered elsewhere
than upon the same lot.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any sign illuminated by electricity, gas, or other
artificial light including reflecting or phosphorescent light.
   SITE PLAN. A plan, to scale, showing uses and structures proposed for a
parcel of land as required by the regulations of this Zoning Code. It includes
lot lines, streets, building sites, reserved open spaces, buildings, major
landscape features and locations of proposed and existing utility lines and
other items as requested by municipal staff.
   SITE PLAN REVIEW. The process whereby municipal staff or the Planning
Commission shall review the site plans and maps of a development to assure that
they meet the stated purposes and standards of the zoning district, provide for
the necessary public facilities, protect, and preserve topographical features
and adjacent properties through appropriate siting of structures and
landscaping.
   SMALL BOX RETAIL. Retail store that is 13,000 square feet or less in size,
which offers for sale primarily consumable products and continuously offers the
majority of the items in their inventory for sale at a price less than $10 per
item. SMALL BOX DISCOUNT STORE does not include stores that: (i) contain a
pharmacy; (ii) sell gasoline or diesel fuel; (iii) employ a growth strategy
based on targeting a specific customer segment; or (iv) primarily sell
specialty food items (i.e. meats, seafood, cheese, or oils and vinegars). The
terminology "small box discount store" is intended to include stores such as
the following: Dollar General, Dollar Tree, Family Dollar, Five Below, and
others not listed here which provide the same type of merchandise and price
points as the aforementioned stores.
   SOLAR ENERGY GENERATION (SYSTEM). Solar collection equipment and structural
design features that rely upon sunshine as an energy source and is capable of
collecting, distributing, and storing (if appropriate to the technology) the
sun's radiant energy for a beneficial use.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change which would tend to prolong the life of a
supporting member of a structure such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or
girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground, including — but without limiting — sheds, pergolas, and buildings.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER. A tower, pole, or similar structure that supports
a telecommunications antenna operated for commercial purpose above ground in a
fixed location, freestanding, guyed, or on a building or other structures.
   TOURIST HOME. A building other than a hotel where lodging is provided and
offered to the public for compensation for not more than ten individuals,
including the serving of breakfast. A tourist home can be classified as a bed &
breakfast facility.
   TRAILER, SMALL UTILITY. Any trailer drawn by a truck or automobile, used for
the occasional transport of personal effects.
   TRANSPORTATION, TERMINALS AND STORAGE. Freight terminals, including loading
docks, storage, wholesale distribution, and cold storage; intended for
distribution. Does not include self-service storage or warehouse.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of requirements where such variation will not be
contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the
property, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary and
undue hardship.
   WAREHOUSE. A building used primarily for the storage of goods and materials.
   WIND ENERGY GENERATION (SYSTEM). Any mechanism or device designed for the
purpose of converting wind energy into electrical or mechanical power.
   YARD. An open space at grade between a primary building and the adjoining
lot lines. In measuring a yard for determining the width of a side yard, the
depth or area of a front yard or rear yard, the horizontal distance between the
lot line and the main building shall be used.
   YARD, FRONT CORNER LOTS. A yard located on a lot having frontage on more
than one street.
   ZERO LOT LINE DWELLING. An arrangement of single family, detached, dwelling
units on which one or more of the buildings sides sits on the lot line. No
building or structure hall have less than a five-foot separation.
   ZONING DISTRICT MAP. The Official Zoning District Map together with all
amendments subsequently adopted.
   ZONING INSPECTOR. The authorized representative appointed by the Planning
Director, Administrator or Council to uphold the regulations of the Zoning
Code.
   ZONING PERMIT. The document issued by the Zoning Inspector or designee
authorizing the use of the land or buildings.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022; Ord. 2023-57, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
    It shall be unlawful to locate erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge,
change, maintain or use any building, structure, or land in violation of any
regulation in or any provisions of the chapter and any amendment or supplement
thereto adopted by Council. Any person, firm or corporation violating any
regulation thereto, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500 per day. Every day during with
the illegal location, activities or maintenance continue shall be deemed a
separate offense. The owner shall be liable when making improvements. The
municipality has the right to recover any administrative or court costs
associated with this section.
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 3-21-2022)
CHAPTER 153: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Code adopted
   
153.02   Enforcement of the Building Codes
§ 153.01 CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Ohio Building Code of Ohio, Ohio Administrative Code §§ 4101:1, et
seq., as promulgated by the Ohio Board of Building Standards and as may be
amended from time to time, is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the
Village of Archbold, Ohio for all construction within the jurisdiction of such
code, expressly excluding therefrom all residential construction as set forth
in Section 310.1 thereof now in effect.
   (B)   The Village of Archbold Building Department is hereby established.
   (C)   Said Department shall have full authority to enforce all laws,
statutes and regulations as provided and authorized in the Ohio Revised Code
and the Ohio Administrative Code pursuant to the certification approved by and
certification rule adopted by the Ohio Board of Building Standards.
(Ord. 14-32, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 153.02 ENFORCEMENT OF THE BUILDING CODES.
   (A)   Ohio Administrative Code 4101:1 - the Building Code; 4101:2 - the
Mechanical Code; and 4101:3 - the Plumbing Code, as promulgated by the Ohio
Board of Building Standards, shall apply and be enforced with the Village of
Archbold, Ohio, subject, however, to the requirement that in no event shall
administration thereof be applicable to any residential construction within the
village.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after the
earliest date permitted by law following promulgation of the Ohio Building Code
and Ohio Mechanical Code, by the Board of Building Standards through the
certification process, adoption and effective date of certification issued by
the Ohio Board of Building Standards.
   (C)   The Mayor of the Village of Archbold is hereby authorized and directed
to enter into an agreement with the Wood County Building Inspection Department
for the enforcement of the Ohio Building Codes within the limits of the
village, whereby the Wood County Building Inspection Department will exercise
all authority and accept plans and specifications and make inspections
necessary within the village in accordance with the provisions of the Ohio
Building Codes.
   (D)   The terms of the agreement shall grant to the Wood County Building
Inspection Department full authority to do all things necessary to administer
and enforce the Ohio Building Codes within the limits of the Village of
Archbold, and in consideration therefore to allow the Wood County Building
Inspection Department to retain all permit and inspection fees authorized by
the State of Ohio for such purposes.
   (E)   The Legislative Authority of the Village of Archbold further agrees to
hold the Wood County Building Inspection Department harmless for all claims or
causes of action of every kind and nature arising from the acts of the county,
its departments, agents, employees, and representatives in the administration
and enforcement of said codes. The Wood County Board of Commissioners further
agrees to hold the Village of Archbold harmless for all claims or causes of
action of every kind and nature arising from the acts of the village, its
departments, agents, employees, and representatives in the administration and
enforcement of said codes.
(Ord. 14-33, 7-7-2014)
CHAPTER 154: VACANT PROPERTY AND BUILDING REGISTRATION
Section
   
154.01   Vacant property and buildings; purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Registration and maintenance
   
154.04   Inspections
   
154.05   Fees
   
154.06   Exemptions
   
154.07   Demolition
   
154.08   Appeals
   
154.09   Nuisance abatement
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 VACANT PROPERTY AND BUILDINGS; PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a program for identifying and
registering vacant residential, commercial, and industrial buildings to ensure
active and accurate tracking and record-keeping, and to mitigate neighborhood
blight through proper correspondence and cooperation with property owners.
(Ord. 2024-24, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall, for the
purpose of this chapter, have the meanings indicated in this chapter.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition that on its own or combined with other
conditions present would lead a reasonable person to believe the property is
vacant. Such conditions include, but are not limited to: significantly below
standard utility usage, overgrown and/or dead vegetation, accumulation of
newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail, accumulation of trash, junk, and/or
debris, broken or boarded up windows, abandoned vehicles, auto parts or
materials, the absence of window coverings, such as curtains, blinds, and/or
shutters, the absence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent with
habitation or occupation, statement(s) by governmental employee(s) that the
property is vacant.
   OWNER. Any person, in whose name the property is titled, and any person,
agent, servicing company, firm, third party, financial institution or bank that
has an interest in the property as a result of an assignment, sale, mortgage,
transfer of a mortgage, or similar instrument or having an agreement with any
one of the above for the purpose of securing and/or managing the property.
   SECURED BY OTHER THAN NORMAL MEANS. A building secured by means other than
those used in the design of the building.
   UNOCCUPIED. A building which is not being used for the occupancy authorized
by the owner.
   UNSECURED. A building or portion of a building which is open to entry by
unauthorized persons without the use of tools or ladders.
   VACANT BUILDING. A building (which includes both residential and commercial
trailers and individual suites within a building complex separated by common
walls excluding government-owned buildings) which is:
      (1)   Unoccupied and unsecured;
      (2)   Unoccupied and secured by other than normal means;
      (3)   Unoccupied and an unsafe building as determined by the Village
Administrator, Planning and/or Zoning Official, Archbold Fire Chief, County
Building Inspector;
      (4)   Unoccupied and having utilities disconnected;
      (5)   Unoccupied and has housing or building code violations;
      (6)   Illegally occupied, which shall include loitering and vagrancy;
      (7)   Unoccupied for a period of time over 90 days and having an existing
code violation issued by a Zoning Official;
      (8)   Unoccupied with a mortgage status of abandonment (i.e., deceased or
foreclosed); or,
      (9)   Unoccupied and abandoned by the property owner.
(Ord. 2024-24, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 154.03 REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The owner shall register with the Planning and Zoning Department not
later than 90 days after any building located in an area zoned for, or abutting
an area zoned for residential, commercial, or industrial use in the village
becomes vacant; or, not later than 30 days of being notified by the Planning
and Zoning Department of the requirement to register based on evidence of
vacancy - whichever event first occurs.
   (B)   The registration shall be submitted on forms provided by the Planning
and Zoning Department and shall include the following information supplied by
the owner:
      (1)   The name(s) and address(es) of the owner or owners, excluding P.O.
boxes;
      (2)   The name and address of any third party with whom the owner has
entered into a contract or agreement for property management. By designating an
authorized agent under the provisions of this section, the owner consents to
the authorization of the third party to receive any and all notices relating to
the property and conformance of any and all ordinances;
      (3)   The names and addresses of all known lien holders and all other
parties with an ownership interest in the building;
      (4)   A direct telephone number where the responsible party can be
reached at all times during business and non-business hours.
   (C)   The owner shall notify the Planning and Zoning Department of any
changes in information regarding their vacant building registration within 30
days of the change. If the timetable for the vacant building is revised in any
way, the revision(s) must be in writing and must meet the approval of the
Planning and Zoning Department.
   (D)   The owner and subsequent owners shall keep the building secured and
safe and the building and grounds properly maintained in accordance with all
applicable Codified Ordinances of the Village of Archbold and Ohio
Administrative Code Chapter 1301:7-7 Section 311.
   (E)   The new owner(s) shall register or re-register the vacant building
with the Planning and Zoning Department within 30 days of any transfer of an
ownership interest in the vacant building if the building continues to remain
vacant after transfer. The new owner(s) shall comply with the timetable
submitted by the previous owner until any proposed changes are submitted and
meet the approval of the Planning and Zoning Department.
   (F)   The failure of the owner of the vacant building to obtain a deed for
the property or to file the deed with the County Recorder shall not excuse the
property owner from registering the property.
   (G)   Failure of the owner or any subsequent owners to maintain the building
and premises shall be subject to any applicable penalties provided by the law.
   (H)   The Planning and Zoning Department shall include in the file any
property specific written statements from community organizations, other
interested parties, or citizens regarding the history, problems, maintenance
status, or blighting influence of the vacant property.
   (I)   The registration, maintenance, and all associated processes must be
completed in their entirety annually for as long as the property remains
vacant.
(Ord. 2024-24, passed 5-6-2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.04 INSPECTIONS.
   The Planning and Zoning Department shall inspect any premises in the village
for the purpose of enforcing and assuring compliance with the provisions of
this chapter. Upon request, the owner may provide access to all interior
portions of an unoccupied building to permit a complete inspection. Nothing
contained herein, however, shall diminish the owner's right to insist upon the
procurement of a search warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction by a
Planning and Zoning Department Official or his or her designee to enable such
inspection. Said Official shall be required to obtain a search warrant whenever
an owner refuses to permit a warrantless inspection of the premises. The
following shall apply:
   (A)   Vacant properties will be externally inspected by a Planning and
Zoning Department Officer and/or Archbold Fire Department Official a minimum of
twice per year to ensure the compliance of property maintenance codes.
   (B)   All commercial vacant properties will be made available for an annual
fire safety inspection by the Archbold Fire Department.
   (C)   Vacant properties will be both internally and externally inspected at
the start of each registration period (new and renewal) and when the
registration is terminated by the property owner.
   (D)   Vacant properties will be both internally and externally inspected
upon acquisition of the property by a new owner and prior to the issuance of a
permit by the Planning and Zoning Department.
   (E)   Any inspection that is to take place within 30 days of a previous
inspection may be conducted at the discretion of a Planning and Zoning
Department Official and/or Archbold Fire Department Official.
(Ord. 2024-24, passed 5-6-2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 FEES.
   The fees shall be reasonably related to the administrative costs for
registering and processing the vacant building owner registration form and for
the costs incurred by the village in monitoring the vacant building site. The
annually increased fee amounts shall be reasonably related to the costs
incurred by the village for demolition and hazard abatement of repairs to
vacant buildings, as well as the continued administrative costs stated above.
   (A)   The owner of a vacant residential building shall pay an annual fee of
$200 for the first year the building remains vacant. For every consecutive year
that the building remains vacant, the annual fee will be assessed at double the
previous year's fee amount for a maximum annual fee equaling the five-year fee
of $3,200 to be used for the fifth and for all consecutive, subsequent years of
vacancy.
   (B)   The owner of a vacant commercial building shall pay an annual fee of
$400 for the first year the building remains vacant. For every consecutive year
that the building remains vacant, the annual fee will be assessed at double the
previous year's fee amount for a maximum annual fee equaling the five-year fee
of $6,400 to be used for the fifth and for all consecutive, subsequent years of
vacancy.
   (C)   The owner of a vacant industrial building shall pay an annual fee of
$800. For every consecutive year that the building remains vacant, the annual
fee will be assessed at double the previous year's fee amount for a maximum
annual fee equaling the five-year fee of $12,800 to be used for the fifth and
for all consecutive, subsequent years of vacancy.
   (D)   The fee shall be paid in full prior to the issuance of any building
permits unless the property is granted an exemption. The fee shall be prorated,
and a refund may be issued if the building is no longer deemed vacant under the
provisions of this chapter within 180 days of its registry.
   (E)   All delinquent fees shall be paid by the owner prior to any transfer
of an ownership interest in the vacant building. A lien may be placed on the
property to collect delinquent fees. A hold may be placed on the transfer or
activation of utilities (water and sewer) until all delinquent fees are paid.
   (F)   Late fees shall be paid in addition to the annual registration and
will be equal to the annual fee or $1,000, whichever is less.
   (G)   All liens and delinquent fees shall be assessed and collected in
accordance with
Chapter 152 of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Archbold and R.C. §
715.261.
(Ord. 2024-24, passed 5-6-2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A building under active construction or renovation and having a valid
building permit(s) at the time of initial inspection shall be exempt from
registration until the expiration of the active building permit.
   (B)   A building which has suffered fire damage or damage caused by extreme
weather conditions shall be exempt from the registration requirement for a
period of 90 days after the date of the fire or extreme weather event if the
property owner submits a request for exemption in writing to the Planning and
Zoning Department. This request shall include the names and addresses of the
owner or owners, and a statement of intent to repair and reoccupy the building
in an expedient manner, or the intent to demolish the building.
   (C)   A building that is for sale and listed with a licensed State of Ohio
realtor shall be exempted for a period of 12 months from the start of vacancy,
provided that the owner submits proof to the Planning and Zoning Department of
such listing and for sale status.
   (D)   Any owner of a vacant building may request an exemption from the
provisions of this section by filing a written application with the Planning
and Zoning Department. The Planning and Zoning Department Official shall
determine whether a request for exemption should be granted based upon the
following considerations: the applicant's prior record as it pertains to the
Village Building Code or Property Maintenance Code violations; the number of
vacant properties the applicant currently has within the village; and the
length of time that the building for which the exception is sought has been
vacant.
(Ord. 2024-24, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 154.07 DEMOLITION.
   Each demolition of a vacant building will be in accordance with §
152.080 of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Archbold. If the amount to
be set up in escrow cannot be paid in full, the village will place a lien on
the property for the amount previously specified. The village will use these
funds to complete the demolition. Escrow funds will be released upon completion
of the work or transfer of ownership, provided that all fees have been paid in
full. New owners must sign a form accepting responsibility for completing the
demolition.
(Ord. 2024-24, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 154.08 APPEALS.
   Any owner who is served a notice of vacant property registration may, within
ten calendar days of receipt of such notice, apply for an exemption or may
appeal the findings to the Planning, Zoning and Economic Development
Department. Said appeal shall be made to the Archbold Planning Commission
pursuant to the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Archbold.
(Ord. 2024-24, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 154.09 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   Any building and/or property deemed vacant or abandoned pursuant to the
terms of this chapter and not maintained pursuant to the terms of this chapter,
the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Archbold and the Village of Archbold
Zoning Code is hereby declared a nuisance and shall have the nuisance
conditions abated pursuant to the terms of Chapter 152 of the Codified
Ordinances of the Village of Archbold.
(Ord. 2024-24, passed 5-6-2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any owner violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished as
provided by §
152.999 of the Archbold Zoning Code.
(Ord. 2024-24, passed 5-6-2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   EASEMENTS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VI.   REZONINGS
      
VII.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Dedicating to public street purposes the east 50 feet of the west 54.6 feet
76-7  1-19-  of Lot 16 in Meadowfield Addition, running 130 feet north and south, Lot 50
      1976   in Miller DeGroff Park Addition, First Extension, and the north 12.63 feet
             of Lot 23 in Miller DeGroff Park Addition
89-17 5-15-  Accepting conveyance for street purposes and dedicating Blue Streak Drive
      1989
89-34 7-24-  Accepting conveyance for street purposes, dedicating the streets and
      1989   ratifying the names of the streets: Taylor Parkway and Weires Drive
94-49 7-5-   Dedication of Weires Drive and Taylor Parkway as public streets
      1994
98-   12-28- Dedication of Nolan Parkway as public street
105   1998
      3-1-   Dedicating a parcel of land in the southeast quarter of Section 33, Town 7
99-12 1999   North, Range 5 East, German Township to public use as a public highway and
             right-of-way
99-62 11-15- Dedicating property known as Meyers Road as a public highway
      1999
02-20 3-18-  Dedicating the following parcels of real estate to public use as public
      2002   highways and rights-of-way:
           (1)    Part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 35, Town 7 North, Range 5
             East, Village of Archbold, Fulton County
           (2)    Part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 33, Town 7 North, Range 5
             East, Village of Archbold, Fulton County
06-10 2-6-   Dedicating the east 11-1/2 feet of the north half of Lot 40 in Haywood’s
      2006   Division
08-72 12-1-  Dedicating property to be known as Victory Lane as a public highway
      2008
09-63 10-19- Dedicating property to be known as Nolan Parkway as a public highway
      2009
11-43 8-15-  Dedicating property to be known as Lafayette Street as a public highway
      2011
2019- 5-6-   Dedicating property adjacent to East Lutz Road
25    2019
            
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
76-27 6-7-   Annexation of 21,925 acres of real estate in the northeast quarter of Section 5
      1976   in Town 6 north of Range 5 East
79-25 4-16-  Annexation of a parcel of land in the northwest quarter of Section 32, Town 7
      1979   North, Range 5 East
85-36 8-19-  Annexation of a parcel of land in the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter
      1985   of Section 29, Town 7 North, Range 5 East
85-54 11-4-  Annexing three parcels:
      1985
           (1)    Part of the south half of the southeast quarter of Section 5, Town 6
             North, Range 5 East, containing 63.74 acres
           (2)    Thirty acres in the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section
             5, Town 6 North, Range 5 East
             (3)    A triangular parcel of land in the southeast corner of the southeast
           quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 5, Town 6 North, Range 5 East,
             containing one-half acre of land, more or less
86-54 10-6-  Annexing three parcels of real estate:
      1986
           (1)    Part of the south half of the southeast quarter of Section 5, Town 6
             North, Range 5 East, containing 65.74 acres
             (2)    A parcel of land described as all of that part of the southeast quarter
           of the southwest quarter of Section 5 lying and being east and north of the
             middle line of Brush Creek running across and through the southeast quarter of
             the southwest quarter, containing 30 acres of land, more or less
             (3)    A triangular parcel of land commencing at the southeast corner of the
             southeast quarter of the southwest quarter, north along the east line of the
             southeast quarter of the southwest quarter to a point in the middle of Brush
           Creek, then southwesterly, along the middle of Brush Creek, to a point on the
             south line of the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter; thence east, along
             the south line of the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter, to the
             southeast corner of the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter and the place
             of beginning, containing one-half acre of land more or less
             Accepting annexation of a parcel of land in the east half of the southwest
87-48 9-8-   quarter of Section 29, Town 7 North, Range 5 East, containing 1.787 acres of
      1987   land, more or less but subject to all legal highways and easements of public
             record and of record in respective utility offices
89-19 6-19-  Annexing two parcels of land in the southeast quarter of Section 29, Town 7
      1989   North, Range 5 East:
             (1)    Beginning at a track spike marking the northeast corner of the southeast
           quarter; thence south 1 degree 5 minutes 00 seconds east, along the east line of
             the southeast quarter, containing 55.69 acres
             (2)    Commencing at the southeast corner of the southeast quarter, then north
           89 degrees 55 minutes 40 seconds west, binding upon the south line of the
             southeast quarter, containing 0.33 acres of land, more or less
      12-4-  Accepting annexation of 108.675 acres of land described as a part of the
89-71 1989   northwest quarter of Section 33, Town 7 North, Range 5 East, commencing at a
             monument box marking the northwest corner of the northwest quarter
90-11 1-15-  Accepting annexation of 80.1837 acres of land being the south half of the
      1990   northeast quarter of Section 8, Town 6 North, Range 5 East
90-29 5-7-   Accepting annexation of 2.55 acres of land being part of the southwest quarter
      1990   of Section 29, Town 7 North, Range 5 East
      6-4-   Accepting annexation of 78.592 acres of land in the west half of the fractional
90-34 1990   northeast quarter and that part of the west half of the southeast quarter lying
             north of Brush Creek, all being located in Section 4, Town 6 North, Range 5 East
             Accepting annexation of 0.72 acre of land in the southwest quarter of Section
91-16 - -    28, Town 7 North, Range 5 East, commencing at the northwest corner of the
      1991   southwest quarter; running thence south, binding upon the west line of the
             southwest quarter
             Accepting annexation of 57.69 acres of land in the northeast quarter of Section
91-25 5-6-   8, Town 6 North, Range 5 East, commencing at a PK nail marking the southeast
      1991   corner of the north half of the northeast quarter; thence north 1 degree, 41
             minutes, 30 seconds west, along the east line of the northeast quarter, 260 feet
91-46 8-19-  Accepting annexation of two tracts of land:
      1991
           (1)    A parcel of land in the southwest quarter of Section 9, Town 6 North,
             Range 5 East, containing 26.48 acres of land
           (2)    The east half of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
             Section 8, Town 6 North, Range 5 East, containing 20 acres of land, more or less
92-62 11-2-  Accepting annexation of 61.69 acres of land being two parcels:
      1992
             (1)    A parcel of land in the northeast quarter of Section 5, Town 6 North,
             Range 5 East, beginning at a point on the south line of the northeast quarter,
           which is north 88 degrees 03 minutes 00 seconds west, 1258 feet from a PK nail
             marking the southeast corner of the northeast quarter, containing 20.83 acres of
             land, more or less
             (2)    A parcel of land in the southwest quarter of Section 4, Town 6 North,
           Range 5 East, commencing at the southeast corner of the southwest quarter;
             thence south 89 degrees 12 minutes 50 seconds west
             Accepting annexation of 8.23 acres of land being a parcel in the northeast
93-57 10-18- quarter of Section 5, Town 6 North, Range 5 East, commencing at a monument box
      1993   marking the southwest corner of the northeast quarter; thence north 1 degree 14
             minutes 43 seconds east
93-71 12-20- Accepting annexation of 81.25 acres of land in two parcels:
      1993
           (1)    The southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 32, Town 7
             North, Range 5 East, containing 40 acres of land
           (2)    A parcel of land in the southeast quarter of Section 29, Town 7 North,
             Range 5 East, containing 41.25 acres of land more or less
94-77 10-17- Accepting annexation of six parcels of land:
      1994
           (1)    A parcel of land in the northwest quarter of Section 34, Town 7 North,
             Range 5 East, containing ten acres of land, more or less
           (2)    A parcel of land in the west half of the northwest quarter of Section 34,
             Town 7 North, Range 5 East, containing 37,838 acres of land, more or less
             (3)    The east half of the northwest quarter of Section 34, Town 7 North, Range
           5 East, north of the right-of-way of the Consolidated Rail Corporation (Conrail)
             containing 40 acres of land, more or less
           (4)    A parcel of land in the northeast quarter of Section 33, Town 7 North,
             Range 5 East, containing 0.904 acre of land, more or less
             (5)    All that portion of the ConRail right-of-way located in the northeast
           quarter of Section 33, Town 7 North, Range 5 East, containing 6.0 acres of land,
             more or less
           (6)    A parcel of land in the northeast quarter of Section 33, Town 7 North,
             Range 5 East, containing 6.496 acres of land, more or less
94-78 10-17- Accepting annexation of 14.765 acres of land in the northeast quarter of Section
      1994   5, Town 6 North, Range 5 East
95-17 3-6-   Accepting annexation of 1.205 acres of land in the northeast quarter of Section
      1995   33, Town 7 North, Range 5 East
97-43 5-5-   Accepting annexation of approximately 157.284 acres of land being seven tracts
      1997   of land:
           (1)    A parcel of land in the northeast quarter of Section 5, Town 6 North,
             Range 5 East, containing 11.89 acres of land, more or less
           (2)    A parcel of land in the south half of the northeast quarter of Section 8,
             Town 6 North, Range 5 East, containing 57.37 acres of land, more or less
           (3)    Two parcels of land in the southwest quarter of Section 5, Town 6 North,
             Range 5 East, containing in parcels 1 and 2 10.2 acres of land, more or less
           (4)    A parcel of land in the northeast fractional quarter of Section 4, Town 6
             North, Range 5 East, containing 70 acres of land, more or less
           (5)    A parcel of land in the southeast quarter of Section 5, Town 6 North,
             Range 5 East, containing 1.936 acres of land, more or less
           (6)    A parcel of land in the northwest quarter of Section 5, Town 6 North,
             Range 5 East, containing 3.888 acres of land, more or less
           (7)    A parcel of land in the northwest quarter of Section 5, Town 6 North,
             Range 5 East, containing 2 acres of land, more or less
98-80 10-19- Annexing approximately 198.991 acres of land in the south half of Section 28,
      1998   Town 7 North, Range 5 East, German Township, to be zoned S-1 Special Districts
98-81 10-19- Annexing approximately 6.036 acres of land situated in the southeast quarter of
      1998   the southeast quarter of Section 8, Town 6 North, Range 5 East, German Township
99-39 7-19-  Annexing approximately 34.3 acres of land located in the southeast quarter of
      1999   Section 8, Town 6 North, Range 5 East, in three tracts:
           (1)    A parcel of land owned by Lowell E. Short and Elizabeth Jane Short
           (2)    A parcel of land owned by Arrow Tru-Line, Inc.
           (3)    A parcel of land owned by Roger Lee Grieser, DBA Park Place Storage, Ltd.
      4-3-   Annexing approximately 5.01 acres of land owned by Louise Fay Short and Darlene
00-31 2000   Polasek located in the southwest quarter of Section 34, Town 7 North, Range 5
             East
00-58 7-27-  Annexing approximately 20.05 acres of land located in the northwest quarter of
      2000   Section 32, Town 7 North, Range 5 East
01-39 7-16-  Annexing approximately 83.46 acres situated in the west half of Section 9,
      2001   Township 6 North, Range 5 East, German Township, Fulton County
      8-19-  Authorizing Village Administrator to enter into an annexation agreement with
02-48 2002   Board of Township Trustees of German Township for the annexation of 9.267 acres
             of land owned by Brian K. Short
      8-19-  Authorizing Village Administrator to enter into an annexation agreement with the
02-49 2002   Board of Township Trustees of German Township for the annexation of 22.617 of
             land owned by Darlene M. Polasek, Trustee and Louise Fay Short
             Accepting annexation of approximately 9.267 acres of land to the village owned
02-65 11-18- by Brian K. Short and situated in the Southeast Quarter of Section 5, T-6-N, R-
      2002   5-E, German Township, Fulton County, Ohio, and zoning such land R-2 Low Density
             Residential
             Accepting annexation of approximately 22.617 acres of land to the village upon
02-66 11-18- application by the owners thereof, being Darleen Polasek as Trustee and Louise
      2002   Short, and zoning such property under the classification of B-2 Highway and
             Commercial Business
             Authorizing the Mayor and Village Administrator to enter into an annexation
03-32 7-7-   agreement with the Board of Township Trustees of German Township for the
      2003   annexation of 5.945 acres of land owned by Lawrence D. Short, Terry L. and
             Sharon L. Barton, and Russell E. and Ruth Ann McQuillin, Trustees
Res.  9-21-  Accepting annexation of approximately 1.75 acres of land situated in German
09-57 2009   Township
2018- - -    Accepting annexation of a parcel of land situated in German Township, consisting
55    2018   of approximately 17.506 acres, owned by Lori A. Sharpe, Successor Trustee and
             Lisa M. Wulff, Successor Trustee
2018- - -    Accepting annexation of a parcel of land situated in German Township, consisting
56    2018   of approximately 57.64 acres, owned by Frey’s West Field Addition, Ltd.
2022- 5-16-  Accepting annexation of approximately 5.9288 acres of land, situated in German
34    2022   Township, to the village on application by Rodney Kinsman
2024- 2-5-   Accepting annexation of approximately 11.217 acres of land, situated in German
15    2024   Township, on application by Mark and Trudy Storrer
            
 
TABLE III: EASEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
Res.  9-20-  Authorizing easement to United Telephone Company to move its cable across
76-35 1976   village property on East Holland Street
Res.  2-21-  Execution of an easement to the Toledo Edison Company
77-11 1977
Res.  3-7-   Appropriating an easement for water pipeline purposes across real estate
77-20 1977   owned by Eunice M. Seiler, Merle W. Seiler and Joyce M. Seiler
      7-5-   Appropriating an easement for water pipeline purposes over a parcel of land
77-40 1977   20 feet in width and located in the northeast quarter of Section 18, Town 7
             North, Range 5 East, German Township
Res.  8-20-  Authorizing execution of an easement to Sauder Woodworking Co. and Fore-
79-48 1979   Craft, Inc. to lay and maintain a communications cable across a public alley
             and portions of two streets
Res.  9-15-  Granting an easement to Sauder Woodworking Company to cross a 1.11 acre
86-52 1986   parcel of land for the purposes of railroad right-of-way and installation of
             water line
      6-1-   Granting an easement to Sauder Woodworking Company through certain specified
87-32 1987   real estate located in the southeast quarter of Section 33, Town 7 North,
             Range 5 East for utility lines
Res.  11-2-  Authorizing execution of an easement to United Telephone Company of Ohio over
92-61 1992   village lands
93-1  1-18-  Authorizing the procurement of a permanent highway easement from St. John’s
      1993   United Church of Christ over a 0.198 acre parcel of land
93-7  3-1-   Authorizing the procurement of a permanent highway easement from Norma L. and
      1993   Gaylord Wagner over a 0.0046 acre parcel of land in the village
93-8  3-1-   Authorizing the procurement of a permanent highway easement from the Farmers
      1993   & Merchants State Bank, over a 0.0072 acre parcel of land in the village
93-19 4-5-   Granting an easement to Toledo Edison Company related to electricity
      1993   transmission and distribution
93-27 5-17-  Granting an easement to Toledo Edison Company related to electricity
      1993   transmission and distribution
94-32 4-18-  Authorizing the procurement of a permanent highway easement from Louise Short
      1994   and Darlene Polasek
95-66 9-5-   Signing a permanent easement with the Archbold Area School for street
      1995   improvements
             Granting a nonexclusive easement of ingress and egress over the 20
97-40 5-5-   westernmost feet of Lot #58 of Plettner’s Addition to James Dominique in
      1997   order to provide for safe residential vehicle ingress/egress for a project
             known as the Park Place Condominiums
Res.  6-2-   Authorizing the procurement of permanent easements along the Upper Tiffin
97-46 1997   River by supporting the Upper Tiffin River Wetlands Reserve Program special
             project
99-25 5-10-  Reserving a perpetual easement over vacated portion of Franklin Street
      1999
             Authorizing the Village Administrator to enter into agreements with the
Res.  9-6-   Fulton County, Ohio Soil and Water Conservation District and/or the Lenawee
11-49 2011   County, Michigan Soil and Water Conservation District on the development of
             permanent easements along the Upper Tiffin River and Bean Creek by supporting
             the Wetlands Reserve Program
Res.  5-2-   Authorizing the Village Administrator and Finance Director to execute
2016- 2016   permanent sidewalk easements for access to Woodland Park
35
Res.  3-19-
2018- 2018   Authorizing easement agreements with the Ridgeville Telephone Company
12
            
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a franchise to the Toledo Edison Company for
75-18    5-5-1975    electricity and telephone and telegraph circuits for a
                     period of 50 years
                     Granting a nonexclusive franchise to Archbold Taxi Service
75-37    12-1-1975   to operate and maintain a taxi service within the village
                     for a period of 15 years; amended by Ords. 75-43, 75-46,
                     80-37
82-60    11-15-1982  Granting a nonexclusive cable television franchise to
                     Jackson Telecommunications for a period of 15 years
83-9     3-7-1983    Granting a nonexclusive cable television franchise to
                     Western Ohio Cablevision for a period of 15 years
                     Approving and confirming transfer and assignment of the
84-26    5-7-1984    cable television franchise from Western Ohio Cablevision,
                     Inc. to Heritage Cablevision, Inc.
88-35    - -1988     Granting to Ohio Gas Company a franchise for gas works and
                     natural gas distribution
96-76    11-4-1996   Granting a franchise to Toledo Edison for furnishing
                     street lighting
96-99    12-30-1996  Granting a franchise to Archbold Refuse Service, Inc. for
                     residential refuse service
98-31    5-4-1998    Transfer of cable television franchise from OCN to
                     FrontierVision
                     Granting a nonexclusive cable television franchise
00-63    9-11-2000   agreement to RTEC Communications, Inc., for a period of 20
                     years
01-62    12-3-2001   Granting a nonexclusive cable television franchise to
                     Adelphia Cable Communications
                     Granting permission to Adelphia Communications to add
03-48    9-22-2003   public access station INTV of Wauseon to the Adelphia
                     cable system serving the village of Archbold under the
                     Wauseon/Adelphia franchise agreement
                     Granting to Ohio Gas Company the right to maintain a gas
                     distribution system and to lay, extend, maintain, operate,
13-52    8-5-2013    repair, and remove mains and pipe in, through, or under
                     the streets, alleys, public places of the village, for
                     supplying gas to the village and its inhabitants, and the
                     transportation thereof in and through the village
                    
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Authorizing purchase of real estate, being a parcel of land in the northeast
76-24 5-3-   quarter of Section 5 in Town 6 North, Range 5 East, described as the north
      1976   689.12 feet of the northeast quarter excepting therefrom the east 1,592.87 feet
             thereof, containing, after the exception, 16.566 acres of land, more or less
Res.  12-20- Authorizing the purchase of the west half of Lot 27 and the west half of Lot 28
76-53 1976   in Haywood’s Division for the sum of $15,400
Res.  9-18-  Authorizing the execution of a rental agreement with the Archbold Area Board of
78-54 1978   Education for the rental of the village’s property known as Lot 7 and Lot 13 in
             Depler’s Division
85-30 8-5-   Authorizing the sale of certain property, being a parcel of land in the
      1985   northerly part of Lot 5 in Haywood’s Division for the sum of $5,600
85-38 8-19-  Authorizing purchase of 105 acres of industrial park real estate from Merle E.
      1985   Riegsecker, Sherry Riegsecker and Robert Roth for the sum of $213,500
Res.  1-20-  Authorizing the sale of a certain 1.221 acre parcel of real estate to Miller
86-7  1986   Bros. Construction, Inc. for the sum of $6,000
Res.  1-20-  Authorizing the sale of a parcel of real estate of approximately 41 acres to
86-8  1986   Wendell Beck and Ed Yoder for the sum of $23,000
Res.  6-16-  Authorizing the sale of certain real estate in the industrial park to Bradley
86-36 1986   J. Grime and Christopher E. Grime
Res.  1-19-  Authorizing the sale of a certain piece of real estate located in Lot 41 of
87-4  1987   Haywood’s Addition to Robert and Joyce Frey for the sum of $4,800
Res.  4-6-   Authorizing the sale of a certain piece of real estate in the southeast quarter
87-20 1987   of Section 5, Town 6 North, Range 5 East, to Edward Baer for the sum of $44,820
Res.  4-6-   Authorizing the purchase of certain real estate from Nofziger Door Sales, Inc.,
87-21 1987   for the sum of $180,000
Res.  4-6-   Authorizing the conveyance of 10.13 acres of real estate to Group W Investments
87-22 1987   for the sum of $101,300
Res.  11-16- Authorizing conveyance of 0.497 acre of real estate to Group W Investments for
87-66 1987   the sum of $4,970
Res.  9-16-  Authorizing the purchase of property known as 106 Pleasant Street for the sum
91-21 1991   of $15,000
Res.  9-16-  Authorizing purchase of Lots 8 and 14, except the south 15 feet thereof, in
91-45 1991   Depler’s Division for the sum of $100,000
91-61 12-2-  Authorizing purchase of Lots 58 and 59 in McLaughlin Addition from the Toledo
      1991   Edison Company for the sum of $18,000
Res.  5-18-  Authorizing conveyance of 2.65 acres of real estate to Bentley Enterprises for
92-21 1992   the sum of $26,500
Res.  9-8-   Authorizing conveyance of 0.672 acre of real estate to Sauder Woodworking
92-46 1992   Company for the sum of $7,053.50
Res.  - -    Authorizing conveyance of 8.047 acres of real estate to Steve J. Wyse for the
92-64 1992   sum of $80,470
Res.  7-5-   Authorizing purchase of real estate in Depler’s Division for the sum of
94-47 1994   $100,000
Res.  7-5-   Authorizing conveyance of Lot 8 and the north 66 feet of Lot 14 in Depler’s
94-48 1994   Division to the Board of Trustees of McLaughlin Memorial Library for the sum of
             $100,000
Res.  7-5-   Authorizing conveyance of three parcels containing six acres, 5.208 acres and
94-50 1994   4.085 acres of real estate to Bil-Jax, Inc. for the sum of $72,460
Res.  9-19-  Authorizing conveyance of 8.047 acres of real estate to Steven J. Wyse for the
94-76 1994   sum of $80,470
Res.  4-17-  Authorizing conveyance of 5.146 acres of real estate to Eileen Rufenacht for
95-34 1995   the sum of $20,000
Res.  7-3-   Authorizing the purchase of real estate from Mr. Thomas J. Short located in
95-56 1995   Section 8, NE quarter, T-6-N, R-5-E of German Township for the sum of $234,360
Res.  7-3-   Authorizing the purchase of real estate located in Section 8, NW quarter, T-6-
95-57 1995   N, R-5-E of German Township from Keith Oyer for the sum of $206,795
Res.  12-18- Authorizing purchase of real estate in Section 8, NW quarter, T-6-N, R-5-E of
95-86 1995   German Township from Keith Oyer for the sum of $206,795
Res.  2-19-  Authorizing purchase of real estate located in the Lugbill Subdivision from the
96-17 1996   Walter Breniser Trust for the sum of $120,000
Res.  1-6-   Authorizing execution of a lease with E & R Trailer Sales, Inc. of its building
97-04 1997   located on one acre of land in the southwest quarter of Section 21, Town 7
             North, Range 5 East
Res.  2-17-  Authorizing the purchase of certain real estate located in Murbach’s 3rd
97-14 1997   Addition, Lot #41, from Gregory and Kim Walker for the sum of $100,000
Res.  9-22-  Authorizing the purchase of approximately 118 acres, more or less in Section
97-76 1997   28, southeast quarter, from Sue Stotzer for the sum of $5,800
Res.  9-22-  Authorizing the purchase of approximately 80 acres more or less in Section 28,
97-77 1997   southeast quarter, from Sauder Woodworking Co. for the sum of $5,800
Res.  10-20- Authorizing execution of a month-to-month lease with E&R Trailer Sales, Inc. of
97-85 1997   its building located on one acre of land in the southwest quarter of Section
             21, Town 7 North, Range 5 East
Res.  2-16-  Authorizing the Village Administrator and Finance Director to acquire an option
98-17 1998   to purchase 9.31 acres of property adjacent to the village industrial park,
             owned by Lugbill Bros., Inc.
Res.  2-16-  Authorizing the Village Administrator and Finance Director to enter into an
98-18 1998   agreement with Allen and Virginia Liechty trading a 9.31 acre parcel for a 6.0
             acre parcel and cash in the amount of $66,200
Res.  2-16-  Authorizing the Village Administrator and Finance Director to enter into an
98-20 1998   agreement acquiring an option to purchase 9.31 acres of property adjacent to
             the village industrial park and owned by Lugbill Bros., Inc.
Res.  5-18-  Authorizing the public auction of a parcel of land at the corner of State Route
98-40 1998   2 and 66 currently leased to E & R Trailer Sales, Inc.
Res.  5-18-  Authorizing the sale of real estate from the Archbold Community Improvement
98-41 1998   Corporation to Napoleon Spring Works, Inc. of a 12.05 acre and 5.993 acre
             parcel located in the village’s industrial park
Res.  8-31-  Authorizing the purchase of real estate from M & N Corporation located in the
98-65 1998   village
Res.  1-3-   Authorizing the Archbold Community Improvement Corporation to convey 0.113
00-03 2000   acres of real estate to Sauder Woodworking Company
Res.  3-6-   Authorizing the purchase of Lot 43 in Haywood’s Division from Beverly C. Hart
00-22 2000   for $59,000
Res.  5-15-  Authorizing the purchase of a 60 foot strip of real estate located in the
00-42 2000   northwest quarter of Section 8, Town 6 North, Range 5 East, from Todd and
             Christina Short for $26,250
Res.  5-15-  Authorizing the Village Administrator and the Director of Finance to enter into
00-44 2000   a contract to sell agreement with Pentco Developers for Lot #3 on South
             Defiance Street in the Schnetzler and Winzeler’s South Addition, for $40,000
Res.  11-6-  Authorizing the purchase of real estate located at 222 East Holland Street from
00-74 2000   William G. and Melinda M. Rupp for $95,000
Res.  11-6-  Authorizing the purchase of 3.5 acres of land commonly known as the southwest
00-75 2000   corner of Lot 89 in North Pointe Estates Third Addition, from Robert Frey for
             $70,000
01-03 1-2-   Authorizing the purchase of 59.99 acres of real estate located on South
      2001   Defiance Street from Alyce R. and Edwin G. Oberhaus for $377,970
Res.  1-7-   Authorizing the Community Improvement Corporation to convey a parcel of real
02-09 2002   estate to Frey’s West Field Addition, LTD in exchange for another parcel of
             real estate in Frey’s West Field Estates
             Authorizing the execution and delivery of a Public Hospital Agencies Agreement
05-43 9-6-   in connection with the Master Lease-Purchase and Sublease-Purchase Agreement,
      2005   by and among Community Hospitals and Wellness Centers, The County of Williams
             and Fifth Third Bank
Res.  9-8-   Authorizing the purchase of 0.532 acres of land from Wendell D. and Bonita K.
08-54 2008   Beck
Res.  9-22-  Amending Res. 08-54, to authorize the purchase of 0.6 acres
08-57 2008
Res.  12-1-  Authorizing the purchase of the real property at 201 North Defiance Street
14-67 2014
Res.  4-17-  Authorizing the Village Administrator to execute a contract with Harley E.
2017- 2017   Burkholder and Donna M. Burkholder for the purchase of real estate,
27           appropriating funds for the purchase
Res.  10-8-  Authorizing the purchase of real estate adjacent to the Archbold Cemetery for
2018- 2018   sale by Lugbill Bros., Inc.
49
            
 
TABLE VI: REZONINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Accepting the application of Lugbill Bros., Inc. and Sarah C. Miller for
75-2  1-6-   rezoning the east 900 feet of the north half of the northeast quarter of
      1975   Section 8 Town 6 North, Range 5 East containing 21.9 acres to be a B-2 Highway
             and Commercial Business District
      4-19-  Accepting the application of Archbold Lanes, Inc. for rezoning certain property
76-21 1976   being a parcel of land in the northwest quarter of Section 4, Town 6 North,
             Range 5 East to be a B-2 Highway and Commercial Business District
77-52 11-7-  Accepting application for rezoning 40 acres in the northwest quarter of Section
      1977   9 from R-1 to R-2
79-60 11-5-  Accepting application for rezoning Lots 8 and 14 of Depler’s Division from R-
      1979   3 to B-1
80-18 2-18-  Rezoning a 1.51 acre parcel from S-1 to R-1
      1980
84-13 2-20-  Rezoning Lot 35 of Ditto’s Division from R-3 to B-1
      1984
      10-7-  Rezoning certain real estate being Lots 4 through 27 and the north 36 feet of
85-46 1985   Lots 3 and 28 in Rudolph Yoder’s Subdivision, together with all adjacent
             vacated streets and alleys from R-2 to M-2
86-49 9-15-  Rezoning a 2.3 acre parcel of land in the northwest quarter of Section 33, Town
      1986   7 North, Range 5 East from M-1 to R-3
87-43 8-3-   Rezoning Lot 15 of Jacob Rupp Jr.’s Addition from M-1 to R-3
      1987
89-7  2-27-  Rezoning 5.456 acres in the northwest quarter of Section 9, Town 6 North, Range
      1989   5 East, German Township from R-2 to B-2
89-15 5-15-  Rezoning a parcel of land in the southeast quarter of Section 5, Town 6 North,
      1989   Range 5 East, German Township from R-2 to B-2
90-52 9-4-   Rezoning lots 8, 9, 10, 14 except the south 15 feet thereof, 15, 16 and 17
      1990   except the south 15 feet thereof of Depler’s Division from R-3 to B-1
      4-1-   Rezoning lot 13 in Meadowfield Addition and a parcel of land in the northeast
91-17 1991   quarter of Section 5, Town 6 North, Range 5 East, German Township from R-2 to
             B-2
94-10 2-7-   Rezoning of a parcel of land situated in the northeast quarter of Section 33,
      1994   T-7-N, R-5-E, in German Township, containing 1.117 acres from R-3 to B-2
94-19 3-7-   Rezoning a parcel of land situated in the northwest quarter of Section 33, T-7-
      1994   N, R-5-E, in German Township, containing 0.937 acre from M-1 to R-3
96-63 8-19-  Rezoning of 5.003 acre parcel located in the southeast quarter of Section 32,
      1996   T-7-N, R-5-E, German Township from R-3 Residential to S Special
96-78 11-18- Rezoning lots #1 and #2 of Frey’s West Field Estates Addition Plat, German
      1996   Township, from R-3 Residential to B-2 Commercial Business
96-79 11-18- Rezoning of a 10.053 acre parcel located in the SE Quarter of Section 32, T-7-
      1996   N, R-5-E, German Township from R-3 Residential to S-Special
      8-4-   Rezoning a parcel of land located in the northeast quarter of Section 5, Town 6
97-60 1997   North, Range 5 East, commonly referred to as the Buckholder property, from R-
             2 to B-2
98-24 3-2-   Rezoning a parcel located at 300 Ditto Street, Lot 14 of Murbach’s Addition
      1998   from R-3 to B-1
98-72 9-21-  Rezoning parcels located in the Jacob Rupp Addition, Lot Nos. 40, 42, 44, 112
      1998   and 115 from R-3 to M-1
98-73 9-21-  Rezoning a parcel located at 900 S. Defiance Street from R-3 to B-2
      1998
00-33 4-17-  Rezoning a parcel commonly referred to as Lot 3 in Frey’s Westfield Addition
      2000   from R-3 to B-2
01-29 6-4-   Rezoning 3.528 acres in the North Pointe area from R-2 to S-1
      2001
01-30 6-4-   Correcting the Zoning Map as to the location of an area on the north side of
      2001   East Holland Street
02-29 5-6-   Rezoning approximately 0.9 acres at 911 East Lutz Road from R-3 to B-2
      2002
02-41 8-5-   Rezoning 5.206 acres as shown on Exhibit A from M-2 to B-2
      2002
03-05 1-20-  Rezoning Lots 37 and 38 of Haywood’s Addition from R-3 Medium Density
      2003   Residential to B-1 Central Business
04-52 10-4-  Rezoning the north ten feet of Lot 19, Lots 20, 21 and 22 in Deppler’s Division
      2004   from R-3 to B-1
13-36 6-3-   Rezoning parcels designated by the Fulton County Auditor as Parcels 17-034373-
      2013   13.000, 17-034374-00.000, and 17-033847-00.000 from R-3 to B-2
15-39 6-1-   Rezoning the property at 102 Monumental Street to B-2 Highway and Commercial
      2015   Business
2020- 3-2-   Rezoning 109 E. Mechanic Street from M-1 Restricted Industrial to B-2 Highway
20    2020   and Commercial Business
2023- 10-2-  Rezoning 100 Woodland Drive from B-2 Highway and Commercial Business to R-
44    2023   3 Medium Density Residential
            
 
TABLE VII: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
75-41 12-1-  Vacating a portion of Depot Street
      1975
76-43 11-1-  Vacating an alley located between Lots 12 and 13 of Carey’s Addition
      1976
      1-3-   Vacating an alley located between lots 1, 3, 5, and 7 of Jacob Rupp Jr.’s
78-5  1978   Addition to the west and Lots 2, 4, 6, and 8 of Jacob Rupp Jr.’s Addition to
             the east
79-53 9-4-   Vacating the portion of an alley located between lots 3 and 5 of Carey’s
      1979   Addition
79-61 11-5-  Vacating the portion of alley located between Lots 5, 6 and 7 of Depler’s
      1979   Division to the north and Lots 11, 12 and 13 of Depler’s Division to the south
80-47 7-21-  Vacating the alley located between Lot 5 and Lots 4 and 6 of Henry Carey’s
      1980   First Addition
81-52 11-16- Vacating an alley in Manor’s Park Addition
      1981
82-35 7-6-   Vacating an alley in Manor’s Park Addition
      1982
83-27 7-18-  Vacating an alley in Jacob Rupp, Sr.’s First Addition
      1983
84-24 4-2-   Vacating alleys and streets within and abutting Rudolph Yoder’s subdivision
      1984
85-53 11-4-  Vacating an alley in Lugbill’s Second Extension
      1985
88-31 4-18-  Vacating a street in Miller Degroff Manor, First Addition
      1988
88-33 4-18-  Vacating an alley in Yeager and Sheffield’s Addition
      1988
90-20 4-16-  Vacating all of that part of Oak Street lying between Sauder Street and
      1990   Lincoln Street in the village
90-76 12-17- Vacating all that part of Oak Street lying between Middle street and Lincoln
      1990   Street in the village
93-24 5-3-   Vacation of a 20-foot alley abutting the east side of Lot 1 of Edwin R.
      1993   Buehrer’s Subdivision
94-67 9-6-   Vacation of a 16-1/2 foot alley abutting lots in Deppler’s Division
      1994
99-08 2-15-  Vacation of Lincoln Street lying north of the intersection of Lincoln Street
      1999   and East Mechanic Street
99-10 3-1-   Vacation of a public alley in Jacob Rupp, Sr.’s first addition in the village
      1999
99-25 5-10-  Vacation of streets and an alley in the Vernier’s and Buehrer Addition
      1999
99-31 6-21-  Vacation of a public alley in the southeast quarter of Section 29, Town 7
      1999   North, Range 5 East
99-55 10-18- Vacation of a public alley in the southeast quarter of Section 29, Town 7
      1999   North, Range 5 East
12-62 11-5-  Vacation of platted streets and alleys in the Yeager and Sheffield Addition in
      2012   the village
2021- 11-15- Vacating a platted alley in Depplers Division in the village
85    2021
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
HISTORICAL REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
Editor's note:
   This table lists those Ohio Revised Code sections which have been
substantially duplicated by corresponding Code of Ordinance sections. All
legislative history references to “(R.C. § xx.xx)” which appear at the end of
sections (or divisions of sections) in the city's Code of Ordinances have been
listed here. Example: to determine which section of the Code of Ordinances is
based on R.C. § 4511.19, scan down this table to the citation for “4511.19” and
examine the entry across from it: in this case, the corresponding Code of
Ordinances section is § 73.01, which means that § 73.01 (or a part thereof) is
based directly on R.C. § 4511.19.
R.C. Cites Code Section
R.C. Cites                  Code Section
1.01                        10.01
1.02                        10.02
1.05                        10.02
1.14                        10.03
1.15                        10.03
1.23                        10.04
1.42                        10.03
1.43                        10.03
1.44                        10.02
1.45                        10.03
1.50                        10.07
1.55                        10.05
1.57                        10.04
1.58                        10.04
1.59                        10.02
701.01                      10.02
925.62                      90.24
925.99(B)                   90.24
951.10                      90.01
951.11                      90.02
951.12                      90.03
951.13                      90.04
951.99                      90.01
955.011(B)                  90.22
955.10                      90.17
955.11                      90.18
955.21                      90.19
955.22                      90.01
955.222                     90.01
955.24                      90.20
955.25                      90.21
955.26                      90.05
955.28(A)                   90.08
955.39                      90.05
955.43                      90.22
955.50                      90.23
955.54                      90.26
955.99(A)                   90.18
                            90.17,
955.99(B)                   90.20,
                            90.21
955.99(C)                   90.05,
                            90.23
955.99(D)                   90.22
955.99(E)                   90.01,
                            90.19
955.99(F)                   90.01
955.99(G)                   90.01
955.99(H)                   90.01
955.99(J)                   90.01
955.99(L)                   90.01
955.99(M)                   90.01
955.99(N)                   90.01
955.99(O)                   90.26
955.99(P)                   90.01
955.99(Q)                   90.01
959.01                      90.10
959.02                      90.11
959.03                      90.12
959.04                      90.11,
                            90.12
959.13                      90.13
959.131                     90.13
959.15                      90.14
959.21                      90.27
959.99(B)                   90.11
959.99(C)                   90.12,
                            90.14
959.99(D)                   90.13,
                            90.27
959.99(E)                   90.13
959.99(E)(3)                90.10
959.99(E)(7)   90.27     90.27
959.99(I)                   90.14
2909.06                     130.01
2917.11                     130.02
2921.33                     130.04
2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F) 70.02
2935.28                     70.07
3737.51(A)                  91.01
3737.99(B)                  91.01
3743.01                     91.20,
                            91.26
3743.60(E) - (J)            91.23
3743.61(E) - (J)            91.23
3743.63                     91.24
3743.64(C) - (G)            91.25
3743.65(A) - (E)            91.21
3743.66                     91.26
3743.68                     91.28
3743.80                     91.27
3743.99(C), (D)             91.99
3767.201                    70.09
3767.99(D)                  70.09
4301.62                     92.01
4301.64                     92.02
4301.99(A)                  92.01
4301.99(B)                  92.02
4501.01(LL)                 70.01
4501.01(TT)                 72.061
4503.05                     71.02
4503.11(A), (D)             71.01
4503.111                    71.01
4503.12                     71.01
4503.21                     71.01
4503.236                    71.03
4505.18                     71.05
4506.01                     71.39
4506.011                    71.40
4506.03                     71.35
4506.04                     71.36
4506.05                     71.35
4506.10(A), (E)             71.41
4506.12(I), (J)             71.36
4506.15                     71.37
4506.17(H), (N)             71.37
4506.19                     71.42
4506.20                     71.38
4506.23                     71.37
4506.99                     71.99
4507.02(A)                  71.17
4507.03                     71.17
4507.04                     71.17
4507.05(F), (I)             71.16
4507.071(B) - (J)           71.16
4507.213                    71.17
4507.30                     71.15
4507.31                     71.16
4507.321                    71.18
4507.35                     71.21
4507.36                     71.22
4507.99                     71.99
4509.74                     73.63
4510.037(J)                 71.23
                            71.23,
4510.04                     71.25,
                            71.26,
                            71.27
4510.05                     71.20
4510.11                     71.23
4510.111                    71.23
4510.12                     71.24
4510.14                     71.25
4510.15                     71.20
4510.16                     71.26
4510.21                     71.27
4510.44                     73.06
4511.01                     70.01
4511.02                     10.16
4511.03                     70.03
4511.031                    70.29
4511.04                     70.04
4511.041                    70.04
4511.042                    70.04
4511.05                     70.05
4511.051                    70.08
4511.08                     70.06
4511.12                     70.20
4511.121                    70.20
4511.13                     70.21
4511.131                    70.22
4511.132                    70.23
4511.14                     70.24
4511.16                     70.26
4511.17                     70.27
4511.18                     70.28
4511.181                    73.01
4511.19(A) - (M)            73.01
4511.191(A),(D)             73.02
4511.192                    73.02
4511.194                    73.05
4511.20                     73.15
4511.201                    73.16
4511.202                    73.17
4511.203                    71.19
4511.204                    72.114
4511.205                    72.115
4511.21(A) - (G), (O), (P)  73.30
4511.211                    73.30
4511.213                    72.100
4511.22                     73.31
4511.23                     73.35
4511.24                     73.32
4511.25                     72.001
4511.251                    73.33
4511.26                     72.003
4511.27                     72.004
4511.28                     72.005
4511.29                     72.006
4511.30                     72.007
4511.31                     72.008
4511.32                     72.009
4511.33                     72.010
4511.34                     72.011
4511.35                     72.012
4511.36                     72.013
4511.37                     72.014
4511.38                     72.015
4511.39                     72.016
4511.40                     72.017
4511.41                     72.030
4511.42                     72.031
4511.43                     72.032
4511.431                    72.033
4511.432                    72.033
4511.44                     72.034
4511.441                    72.035
4511.45                     72.036
4511.451                    72.037
4511.452                    72.038
4511.454                    72.036
4511.46                     72.039
4511.47                     72.040
4511.48                     72.041
4511.481                    72.060
4511.49                     72.055
4511.491                    72.059
4511.50                     72.056
4511.51                     72.057
4511.511                    72.058
4511.512                    72.061
4511.513                    72.062
4511.514                    72.063
4511.52                     75.01
4511.521                    75.03
4511.522                    75.04
4511.53                     75.32
4511.54                     75.35
4511.55                     75.36
4511.56                     75.45
4511.60                     72.002
4511.61                     72.070
4511.62                     72.071
4511.63                     72.072
4511.64                     72.073
4511.65                     72.085
4511.66                     76.01
4511.661                    76.02
4511.67                     76.03
4511.68                     76.06
4511.681                    76.09
4511.69                     76.07
4511.70                     72.095
4511.701                    72.096
4511.71                     72.097
4511.711                    72.098
4511.712                    72.099
4511.713                    72.098
4511.714                    72.097
4511.72                     72.100
4511.73                     72.101
4511.74                     72.102
4511.75                     72.125
4511.751                    72.126
4511.76(C), (F), (G)        72.128
4511.761                    72.129
4511.762                    72.127
4511.763                    72.130
4511.764                    72.131
4511.77                     72.132
4511.771                    72.133
4511.772                    72.134
4511.79                     73.03
4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)  72.103
4511.82                     72.102
4511.84                     72.106
4511.85                     72.107
4511.99                     70.99
4511.991                    70.99
4513.02(A), (H)             74.01
4513.021                    74.02
4513.03                     74.03
4513.04                     74.04
4513.05                     74.05
4513.06                     74.06
4513.07                     74.07
4513.071                    74.08
4513.08                     74.09
4513.09                     74.10
4513.10                     74.11
4513.11                     74.12
4513.111                    74.12
4513.12                     74.13
4513.13                     74.14
4513.14                     74.15
4513.15                     74.16
4513.16                     74.17
4513.17                     74.18
4513.171                    74.18
4513.18                     74.25
4513.181                    74.26
4513.182                    74.27
4513.19                     74.19
4513.20                     74.28
4513.201                    74.29
4513.202                    74.30
4513.21                     74.20
4513.22                     74.21
4513.23                     74.22
4513.24                     74.23
4513.241(C) - (K)           74.24
4513.25                     74.31
4513.26                     74.24
4513.261                    74.32
4513.262                    74.33
4513.263                    72.104
4513.27                     74.34
4513.28                     74.35
4513.29                     74.36
4513.30                     74.51
4513.31                     74.52
4513.32                     74.53
4513.33                     74.54
4513.34                     74.50
4513.36                     73.45
4513.361                    73.46
4513.50                     74.38
4513.51(A), (B), (D)        74.38
4513.66                     70.12
4513.68                     70.12
                            74.11,
                            74.24,
                            74.27,
                            74.28,
                            74.29,
                            74.30,
4513.99                     74.31,
                            74.34,
                            74.36,
                            74.50,
                            74.51,
                            74.52,
                            74.53
4519.401                    73.07
4549.02                     73.60
4549.021                    73.61
4549.03                     73.62
4549.05                     73.76
4549.08                     73.77
4549.081(B), (C)            70.20
4549.10                     73.78
4549.11                     73.79
4549.12                     73.80
4549.18                     73.75
4549.20                     74.39
5577.02                     74.55
5577.03                     74.56
5577.04                     74.56
5577.041                    74.56
5577.042                    74.64
5577.043                    74.64
5577.044                    74.64
5577.045                    74.64
5577.05                     74.57
5577.06                     74.57
5577.10                     74.58
5577.11                     74.59
5577.12                     74.60
5577.15                     74.53
5577.99(A)                  74.55
5577.99(C)                  74.56,
                            74.57
5577.99(D)                  74.58
5577.99(E)                  74.59
5589.08                     72.108
5589.081                    74.37
5589.99(B)                  72.108,
                            74.37
                            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1192     11-28-1966  33.013
76-19    4-6-1976    30.01
76-35    9-20-1976   TSO Table III
76-53    12-20-1976  TSO Table V
77-11    2-21-1977   TSO Table III
77-20    3-7-1977    TSO Table III
78-54    9-18-1978   TSO Table V
79-48    8-20-1979   TSO Table III
82-19    4-5-1982    34.04
82-25    5-3-1982    50.03
85-62    12-2-1985   50.03
86-7     1-20-1986   TSO Table V
86-8     1-20-1986   TSO Table V
86-30    6-2-1986    32.01
86-36    6-16-1986   TSO Table V
86-52    9-15-1986   TSO Table III
87-4     1-19-1987   TSO Table V
87-20    4-6-1987    TSO Table V
87-21    4-6-1987    TSO Table V
87-22    4-6-1987    TSO Table V
87-66    11-16-1987  TSO Table V
88-15    2-15-1988   34.03
89-31    7-24-1989   32.04
89-55    11-20-1989  50.03
90-69    12-17-1990  50.03
91-21    9-16-1991   TSO Table V
91-45    9-16-1991   TSO Table V
92-64    - -1992     TSO Table V
92-21    5-18-1992   TSO Table V
92-46    9-8-1992    TSO Table V
92-61    11-2-1992   TSO Table III
94-47    7-5-1994    TSO Table V
94-48    7-5-1994    TSO Table V
94-50    7-5-1994    TSO Table V
94-76    9-19-1994   TSO Table V
95-15    2-20-1995   32.08
95-34    4-17-1995   TSO Table V
95-56    7-3-1995    TSO Table V
95-57    7-3-1995    TSO Table V
95-86    12-18-1995  TSO Table V
95-89    12-27-1995  32.11
96-17    2-19-1996   TSO Table V
96-31    4-1-1996    Ch. 77, Sch. I
96-34    4-15-1996   Ch. 77, Sch. II
96-86    12-2-1996   31.02
97-02    1-6-1997    34.07
97-04    1-6-1997    TSO Table V
97-09    2-3-1997    31.45
97-10    2-3-1997    93.02
97-14    2-17-1997   TSO Table V
97-46    6-2-1997    TSO Table III
97-48    6-2-1997    31.46
97-76    9-22-1997   TSO Table V
97-77    9-22-1997   TSO Table V
97-85    10-20-1997  TSO Table V
97-88    11-3-1997   34.09
98-17    2-16-1998   TSO Table V
98-18    2-16-1998   TSO Table V
98-20    2-16-1998   TSO Table V
98-40    5-18-1998   TSO Table V
98-41    5-18-1998   TSO Table V
98-65    8-31-1998   TSO Table V
98-86    11-16-1998  112.01—
                     112.17
00-03    1-3-2000    TSO Table V
00-22    3-6-2000    TSO Table V
00-42    5-15-2000   TSO Table V
00-44    5-15-2000   TSO Table V
00-74    11-6-2000   TSO Table V
00-75    11-6-2000   TSO Table V
01-07    2-5-2001    31.47
02-09    1-7-2002    TSO Table V
08-54    9-8-2008    TSO Table V
08-57    9-22-2008   TSO Table V
09-57    9-21-2009   TSO Table II
11-49    9-6-2011    TSO Table III
14-67    12-1-2014   TSO Table V
2016-35  5-2-2016    TSO Table III
2017-27  4-17-2017   TSO Table V
2018-12  3-19-2018   TSO Table III
2018-49  10-8-2018   TSO Table V
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
897      9-6-1960    51.30 
                     51.34
                     151.001 -
                     151.010,
                     151.020 -
                     151.023,
                     151.035 -
1155     1-10-1966   151.043,
                     151.055 -
                     151.065,
                     151.075 -
                     151.080,
                     151.999
1171     5-26-1966   33.013
72-59    10-2-1972   130.06
74-55    11-4-1974   51.32 
                     51.34
75-35    - -1975     91.01
75-2     1-6-1975    TSO Table VI
75-18    5-5-1975    TSO Table IV
75-37    12-1-1975   TSO Table IV
75-41    12-1-1975   TSO Table VII
76-1     1-5-1976    33.013
76-7     1-19-1976   TSO Table I
76-21    4-19-1976   TSO Table VI
76-24    5-3-1976    TSO Table V
76-27    6-7-1976    TSO Table II
76-43    11-1-1976   TSO Table VII
77-40    7-5-1977    TSO Table III
77-52    11-7-1977   TSO Table VI
78-5     1-3-1978    TSO Table VII
                     151.022,
78-10    1-16-1978   151.055,
                     151.063
78-64    12-4-1978   95.02
79-4     1-8-1979    91.03
79-25    4-16-1979   TSO Table II
79-30    5-7-1979    95.03
79-31    6-4-1979    51.30 
                     51.34
79-53    9-4-1979    TSO Table VII
79-60    11-5-1979   TSO Table VI
79-61    11-5-1979   TSO Table VII
80-18    2-18-1980   TSO Table VI
80-47    7-21-1980   TSO Table VII
80-49    8-18-1980   33.013
81-11    2-16-1981   34.01
81-21    4-6-1981    51.30
81-23    4-6-1981    95.04
81-39    9-21-1981   33.013
81-40    9-21-1981   51.30
81-52    11-16-1981  TSO Table VII
81-56    12-21-1981  91.02
                     32.02 
82-5     1-4-1982    32.04,
                     32.06
82-35    7-6-1982    TSO Table VII
82-55    10-4-1982   51.01
82-60    11-15-1982  TSO Table IV
82-62    11-15-1982  92.01
82-65    11-15-1982  130.01
82-68    11-15-1982  93.01,
                     93.99
82-71    11-15-1982  130.04
82-72    11-15-1982  130.03
                     70.01 
                     70.05,
                     70.20,
                     70.21,
                     70.24,
                     70.26,
                     70.27,
                     70.40 
                     70.42,
                     71.01,
                     71.04,
                     71.16,
                     71.17,
                     71.19,
                     71.23,
                     72.001,
                     72.003 
                     72.011,
                     72.013 
                     72.019,
                     72.030 
                     72.032,
                     72.034,
82-74    11-15-1982  72.036 
                     72.041,
                     72.055 
                     72.057,
                     72.071,
                     72.072,
                     72.085,
                     72.095 
                     72.102,
                     72.109,
                     72.110,
                     72.125,
                     73.01,
                     73.34,
                     73.60 
                     73.62,
                     74.04 
                     74.24,
                     74.51 
                     74.53,
                     74.61 
                     74.63,
                     92.02,
                     130.04
82-79    12-6-1982   34.05
83-2     1-3-1983    32.10
83-9     3-7-1983    TSO Table IV
83-27    7-18-1983   TSO Table VII
84-13    2-20-1984   TSO Table VI
84-18    2-20-1984   73.01
84-24    4-2-1984    TSO Table VII
84-26    5-7-1984    TSO Table IV
84-32    5-21-1984   95.01
84-55    10-1-1984   51.31
84-59    11-5-1984   34.06
84-60    11-5-1984   130.02
84-65    12-3-1984   51.35
84-70    12-17-1984  51.30
85-6     1-21-1985   34.02
85-7     2-4-1985    96.01 
                     96.11
85-14    4-15-1985   95.15
85-30    8-5-1985    TSO Table V
85-34    8-5-1985    33.013
85-36    8-19-1985   TSO Table II
85-38    8-19-1985   TSO Table V
85-46    10-7-1985   TSO Table VI
85-53    11-4-1985   TSO Table VII
85-54    11-4-1985   TSO Table II
86-49    9-15-1986   TSO Table VI
86-54    10-6-1986   TSO Table II
87-32    6-1-1987    TSO Table III
                     70.99,
                     73.04,
                     73.15,
                     73.16,
                     73.30 
87-42    6-20-1987   73.32,
                     74.01,
                     74.03 
                     74.07,
                     74.09 
                     74.24,
                     74.50
                     75.02,
                     75.04,
                     75.16 
87-31    7-6-1987    75.18,
                     75.30 
                     75.35,
                     75.46,
                     75.99
                     32.02,
87-36    7-6-1987    32.07,
                     32.08
87-43    8-3-1987    TSO Table VI
87-48    9-8-1987    TSO Table II
88-35    - -1988     TSO Table IV
88-31    4-18-1988   TSO Table VII
88-33    4-18-1988   TSO Table VII
88-66    11-21-1988  51.31
88-71    12-19-1988  70.99
89-7     2-27-1989   TSO Table VI
89-9     4-3-1989    51.02
89-15    5-15-1989   TSO Table VI
89-17    5-15-1989   TSO Table I
89-19    6-19-1989   TSO Table II
89-34    7-24-1989   TSO Table I
89-60    11-6-1989   31.01
89-71    12-4-1989   TSO Table II
90-11    1-15-1990   TSO Table II
90-20    4-16-1990   TSO Table VII
90-25    5-7-1990    90.15,
                     90.25
90-29    5-7-1990    TSO Table II
90-34    6-4-1990    TSO Table II
90-44    7-16-1990   33.013
90-52    9-4-1990    TSO Table VI
90-66    12-17-1990  31.02
90-67    12-17-1990  94.01
90-68    12-17-1990  95.03
90-69    12-17-1990  51.30
90-76    12-17-1990  TSO Table VII
90-79    12-17-1990  32.07,
                     32.08
91-16    - -1991     TSO Table II
91-17    4-1-1991    TSO Table VI
91-25    5-6-1991    TSO Table II
91-26    5-20-1991   91.01
91-46    8-19-1991   TSO Table II
91-61    12-2-1991   TSO Table V
91-66    - -1991     32.07,
                     32.08
92-26    7-20-1992   72.111
92-62    11-2-1992   TSO Table II
93-1     1-18-1993   TSO Table III
93-7     3-1-1993    TSO Table III
93-8     3-1-1993    TSO Table III
93-6     4-5-1993    51.30
93-19    4-5-1993    TSO Table III
93-24    5-3-1993    TSO Table VII
93-27    5-17-1993   TSO Table III
93-57    10-18-1993  TSO Table II
93-71    12-20-1993  TSO Table II
94-6     1-17-1994   51.15 
                     51.19
94-8     1-17-1994   50.01,
                     50.02
94-10    2-7-1994    TSO Table VI
94-19    3-7-1994    TSO Table VI
94-27    4-18-1994   73.17
                     70.99,
94-28    4-18-1994   76.02 
                     76.12,
                     Ch. 78, Sch. I
94-32    4-18-1994   TSO Table III
94-49    7-5-1994    TSO Table I
94-62    8-15-1994   31.25 
                     31.30
94-67    9-6-1994    TSO Table VII
94-77    10-17-1994  TSO Table II
94-78    10-17-1994  TSO Table II
94-99    12-19-1994  32.08
94-100   12-19-1994  32.07
95-17    3-6-1995    TSO Table II
95-23    4-3-1995    75.16,
                     75.17
95-24    4-3-1995    Ch. 78, Sch. II
95-46    6-19-1995   33.013
95-58    7-3-1995    70.42
95-48    7-17-1995   95.15 
                     95.17
95-66    9-5-1995    TSO Table III
96-36    6-17-1996   Ch. 78, Sch. I
96-63    8-19-1996   TSO Table VI
96-71    10-7-1996   32.06
96-72    11-4-1996   32.12
96-76    11-4-1996   TSO Table IV
96-78    11-18-1996  TSO Table VI
96-79    11-18-1996  TSO Table VI
96-99    12-30-1996  TSO Table IV
97-06    2-17-1997   50.03
97-36    4-21-1997   34.08
97-40    5-5-1997    TSO Table III
97-43    5-5-1997    TSO Table II
97-60    8-4-1997    TSO Table VI
97-69    10-20-1997  95.45 
                     95.48
97-86    11-3-1997   95.47
97-90    11-17-1997  32.07
97-103   12-15-1997  34.10
98-07    1-19-1998   31.15
98-24    3-2-1998    TSO Table VI
98-31    5-4-1998    TSO Table IV
                     150.01 
                     150.11,
                     150.20 
98-48    7-20-1998   150.22,
                     150.35 
                     150.38,
                     150.99
98-72    9-21-1998   TSO Table VI
98-73    9-21-1998   TSO Table VI
98-80    10-19-1998  TSO Table II
98-81    10-19-1998  TSO Table II
98-96    12-7-1998   72.074
98-105   12-28-1998  TSO Table I
99-08    2-15-1999   TSO Table VII
99-09    2-15-1999   32.07
99-10    3-1-1999    TSO Table VII
99-12    3-1-1999    TSO Table I
99-24    4-19-1999   94.01
99-25    5-10-1999   TSO Table III,
                     Table VII
99-06    5-24-1999   33.013
99-31    6-21-1999   TSO Table VII
99-39    7-19-1999   TSO Table II
99-41    8-2-1999    72.112
99-48    9-7-1999    Ch. 77, Sch. I
99-55    10-18-1999  TSO Table VII
99-60    11-1-1999   51.30
99-60    11-11-1999  50.03
99-62    11-15-1999  TSO Table I
                     51.30 
00-15    2-7-2000    51.32,
                     51.37
00-31    4-3-2000    TSO Table II
00-33    4-17-2000   TSO Table VI
00-45    6-5-2000    51.30
00-32    7-10-2000   95.30,
                     95.31
00-58    7-27-2000   TSO Table II
00-63    9-11-2000   TSO Table IV
00-70    10-23-2000  97.01,
                     97.99
                     32.12,
00-79    12-4-2000   32.21,
                     32.22
00-81    12-4-2000   32.07
00-83    12-4-2000   76.06
00-84    12-4-2000   Ch. 78, Sch. II
00-85    12-4-2000   Ch. 78, Sch. I
01-03    1-2-2001    TSO Table V
01-25    5-21-2001   32.04
-        6-4-2001    Ch. 78, Sch. II
01-29    6-4-2001    TSO Table VI
01-30    6-4-2001    TSO Table VI
01-39    7-16-2001   TSO Table II
01-62    12-3-2001   TSO Table IV
01-66    12-3-2001   51.30
02-20    3-18-2002   TSO Table I
02-29    5-6-2002    TSO Table VI
02-41    8-5-2002    TSO Table VI
02-42    8-5-2002    130.03
                     70.01,
                     72.018,
02-43    8-5-2002    75.30,
                     75.31,
                     75.35
02-48    8-19-2002   TSO Table II
02-49    8-19-2002   TSO Table II
02-65    11-18-2002  TSO Table II
02-66    11-18-2002  TSO Table II
                     51.30 
02-73    12-16-2002  51.32,
                     51.37
03-03    1-6-2003    32.07
03-05    1-20-2003   TSO Table VI
03-32    7-7-2003    TSO Table II
03-46    8-18-2003   32.07
03-48    9-22-2003   TSO Table IV
04-52    10-4-2004   TSO Table VI
04-54    11-15-2004  73.30
04-55    11-15-2004  72.102
05-06    1-17-2005   50.03
05-35    7-18-2005   94.01
05-43    9-6-2005    TSO Table V
05-55    12-5-2005   Ch. 78, Sch. I
                     52.01,
                     52.02,
                     52.10,
                     52.11,
                     52.20 
                     52.27,
05-54    12-19-2005  52.40 
                     52.50,
                     52.60 
                     52.71,
                     52.80 
                     52.82,
                     52.99
                     51.30 
06-02    1-23-2006   51.32,
                     51.37
                     51.30 
06-58    1-23-2006   51.32,
                     51.37
06-10    2-6-2006    TSO Table I
06-59    11-20-2006  52.03
07-20    4-2-2007    34.11
                     50.03,
07-32    6-4-2007    51.30,
                     52.03
08-02    1-7-2008    112.011
08-34    7-7-2008    95.03
08-39    7-21-2008   51.30
08-61    10-6-2008   Adopting Ordinance
08-72    12-1-2008   TSO Table I
09-21    4-6-2009    51.15
09-23    4-6-2009    94.01
09-44    8-17-2009   34.13
                     Ch. 77, Schs. I,
09-60A   10-19-2009  II,
                     Ch. 78, Sch. I
09-61    10-19-2009  34.12
09-63    10-19-2009  TSO Table I
09-70    11-2-2009   Ch. 77, Sch. I
                     51.30 
09-73    12-7-2009   51.33,
                     51.37
09-74    12-7-2009   52.03
10-08    1-18-2010   Adopting Ordinance
10-32    5-3-2010    Ch. 78, Sch. I
                     52.01,
                     52.02,
                     52.10,
                     52.11,
                     52.20 
                     52.27,
10-56    10-11-2010  52.40 
                     52.50,
                     52.60 
                     52.73,
                     52.80 
                     52.82,
                     52.99
10-66    11-8-2010   72.020
10-74    12-6-2010   73.30,
                     95.46
                     150.01 
                     150.11,
                     150.20 
11-15    2-21-2011   150.22,
                     150.35 
                     150.38,
                     150.99
11-26    4-4-2011    150.05
                     51.30 
11-29    4-18-2011   51.33,
                     51.37
11-37    7-18-2011   Ch. 78, Sch. I
11-43    8-15-2011   TSO Table I
11-47    9-6-2011    Ch. 78, Sch. I
11-54    9-6-2011    51.02
11-57    9-19-2011   72.020
12-27    4-16-2012   51.30 -
                     51.32
12-40    6-18-2012   32.20
12-41    7-2-2012    Adopting Ordinance
12-62    11-5-2012   TSO Table VII
13-12    3-4-2013    90.18
13-28    4-15-2013   51.30 -
                     51.32
13-36    6-3-2013    TSO Table VI
                     50.03,
13-38    6-3-2013    51.30,
                     52.03
13-52    8-5-2013    TSO Table IV
14-18    4-7-2014    51.30 -
                     51.32
14-32    7-7-2014    153.01
14-33    7-7-2014    153.02
15-39    6-1-2015    TSO Table VI
15-53    9-14-2015   Ch. 78, Sch. I
15-69    12-7-2015   52.44
                     33.01 -
15-77    12-21-2015  33.20,
                     33.97 -
                     33.99
2016-32  5-16-2016   95.49
2017-22  4-3-2017    70.42 -
                     70.44
2017-62  9-11-2017   Ch. 78, Sch. I
2018-55  - -2018     TSO Table II
2018-56  - -2018     TSO Table II
                     33.01 -
2019-04  1-7-2019    33.20,
                     33.97 -
                     33.991
2019-25  5-6-2019    TSO Table I
2019-32  5-20-2019   110.10
2019-49  10-7-2019   33.091,
                     33.21
2019-55  10-21-2019  33.03
2019-64  11-18-2019  96.04
2020-20  3-2-2020    TSO Table VI
2020-28  6-15-2020   76.06
                     111.01 -
2021-35  4-5-2021    111.08,
                     111.99
                     110.01 -
2021-39  5-17-2021   110.09,
                     110.99
2021-40  5-17-2021   113.01 -
                     113.09
2021-66  9-7-2021    75.04
2021-82  11-15-2021  72.019
2021-85  11-15-2021  TSO Table VII
                     152.001 -
                     152.008,
                     152.020 -
                     152.022,
                     152.030 -
                     152.035,
                     152.040 -
                     152.050,
                     152.060 -
                     152.077,
                     152.090,
                     152.091,
2022-25  3-21-2022   152.100 -
                     152.109,
                     152.120 -
                     152.122,
                     152.130 -
                     152.135,
                     152.140 -
                     152.145,
                     152.150 -
                     152.156,
                     152.170,
                     152.999
                      
2022-34  5-16-2022   TSO Table II
2022-36  5-16-2022   Ch. 77, Sch. III
2022-37  5-16-2022   Ch. 78, Sch. I
2022-43  8-1-2022    91.21
2022-57  10-17-2022  72.020
2023-31  7-17-2023   76.06
2023-44  10-2-2023   TSO Table VI
2023-54  12-4-2023   130.07
                     33.045,
                     33.062,
2023-55  12-4-2023   33.0621,
                     33.094,
                     33.10
                     152.031,
                     152.049,
2023-57  12-4-2023   152.062,
                     152.080,
                     152.170
2024-15  2-5-2024    TSO Table II
                     151.101 -
                     151.110,
                     151.201 -
                     151.209,
                     151.301 -
                     151.305,
                     151.401 -
2024-16  2-19-2024   151.410,
                     151.501 -
                     151.517,
                     151.601 -
                     151.610,
                     151.701 -
                     151.712,
                     151.801 -
                     151.803
                     154.01 -
2024-24  5-6-2024    154.09,
                     154.99
                    
 
 
