VILLAGE OF BATAVIA, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 1288-13, passed 12-2-2013
State legislation current through 12-19-2013
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
432 Walnut Street, 12th Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Mayor                 John Thebout
Village Council       Kathleen Turner
                      Earl Carter
                      Thomas Ellis
                      Robert Handra
                      Stephen Staton
                      John Waite
Village Administrator Dennis Nichols
Fiscal Officer        Anne Lock
Police Chief          Michael Gardner
Tax Administrator     Jane King
Solicitor             Christopher Moore
 
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Statutory references
   
10.17   Determination of legislative intent
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Batavia municipal code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(1997 Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND/OR. The word “and” may be read as “or,” and the word “or” may be read as
“and,” if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER.  When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Includes registered mail.
   CHILD.  Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL.  The Village Council of the Village of Batavia, Ohio.
   COUNTY.  Clermont County, Ohio.
   FIRE CHIEF.  Shall include the Chief of the Fire Department if a Fire
Department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no Fire Department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED.  Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the World Wide Web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR.  Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE.  Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY.  The Village Council of the Village of Batavia, Ohio.
   MAY.  Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION.  When used in
this code, shall denote the Village of Batavia.
   O.A.C.  Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH.  Includes affirmation.
   OWNER.  When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of that property.
   PERSON.  Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER and SEWERS.  Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES.  As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY.  Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   R.C. or REVISED CODE.  Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL.  Includes certified mail.
   SHALL.  Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK.  The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE.  The State of Ohio.
   STREET.  Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   SWEAR. Includes affirm.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT.  As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   WEEK.  Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER.  Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners;
principals, agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING.  Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING.  The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating to
signatures.
   YEAR.  Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)  (1997 Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage.  Words and phrases shall be read in
context and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words
and phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses.  As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other gender; and
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   As used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this section, LEGAL
HOLIDAY means the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s Day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln Day;
         (d)   The day designated in the Act of June 28, 1968, 82 Stat. 250, 5
U.S.C. § 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial Day;
         (e)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence Day;
         (f)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor Day;
         (g)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus Day;
         (h)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s Day;
         (i)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving Day;
         (j)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas Day; and
         (k)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, the priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Numbers.  If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority.  When the law requires an act to be done which may by law
as well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority.  All words purporting to give joint authority to
three or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving
that authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it shall
be otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal Charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding the construction, or when the subject
matter or context of the law is repugnant thereto.
(1997 Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04  REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not, except
as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
(1997 Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05  CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   A reference to any portion of a provision of this code applies to all
re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
   (E)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter has been
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(1997 Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (B)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of Council are
irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of Council, one amendment without reference to another, the amendments
are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may be given to each. If the
amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the latest in date of enactment
prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates language deleted by an
earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted by an earlier
amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable. Amendments
are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably be put into
simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and any standard code adopted by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, the provision that establishes the
higher or stricter standard shall control.
(1997 Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)  (1997 Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(1997 Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached, or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
(1997 Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the municipality,
this code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
(1997 Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the municipality shall remain in full
force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(1997 Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12  ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
(1997 Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(1997 Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(1997 Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15  AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   The following language may be used by the municipality to amend, add
or repeal a chapter, section or division.
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section                of the Municipal Code
of Ordinances is amended to read as follows: ....”
      (2)   To add a section: “Section                of the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, reads as follows: ....”
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section                of the Municipal Code
of Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: ....”
(1997 Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16  STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any and all amending ordinances, if any, are
listed following the text of the code section.
Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in parentheses
immediately following a division or section of this code, this indicates that
the text of the division or section is substantially equivalent to the
statutory provision.
Example: (R.C. § 4511.02)
   (C)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of a section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
Example:
   § 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      Unless otherwise exempted by state law, all public records shall be
promptly prepared and made available for inspection to any person.
   Statutory reference:
      Public records, see R.C. § 149.43
(1997 Code, § 10.16)
   (D)   If a section of this code is derived from the 1997 code of ordinances
of the village, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history
by “(1997 Code, §      ).”  The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.17  DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of the state and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
(R.C. § 1.47)
   (B)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (C)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of Council, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49)
(1997 Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this municipal code or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or
both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
a violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for the failure.
(1997 Code, § 10.99)
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE COUNCIL
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
      
34.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
35.   INCOME TAX
      
36.   FINANCE
      
37.   VILLAGE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  VILLAGE COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Community service award
   
30.03   Monthly account; annual report
§ 30.01  MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meeting nights for Council shall be the first Monday of
each month at 7:00 p.m. local time in the Batavia Municipal Building, 389 East
Main Street.
   (B)   Should any holiday fall upon the date for a regular meeting, Council
shall fix another date within the same month in lieu thereof. The Mayor or any
three Council members may call special meetings upon at least 12 hours’ notice
to each member, served personally or left at his or her usual place of
residence.
(1997 Code, § 30.01)  (Ord. 838-92, passed 4-20-1992; Ord. 922-97, passed 3-10-
1997; Ord. 1001-02, passed 12-2-2002; Ord. 1197-10, passed 2-1-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings generally, see R.C. § 731.46
   Open meetings, see R.C. § 121.22
§ 30.02  COMMUNITY SERVICE AWARD.
   (A)   An award for outstanding citizenship and community service within the
village is hereby established, such award to be given on a periodic basis
pursuant to guidelines as established by Council.
   (B)   The expenses of and relating to the award shall be paid out of the
general funds of the village.
   (C)   The Fiscal Officer is hereby directed to expend from the general funds
of the village, the sums which are determined by Council to be necessary for
and relating to the award for outstanding citizenship and community service.
(1997 Code, § 30.02)  (Ord. 711-83, passed 6-13-1983)
§ 30.03  MONTHLY ACCOUNT; ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   The Fiscal Officer shall settle and account with the Council monthly,
providing the Council, no later than the Friday immediately preceding the
monthly Council meeting, the following information and accounts:
      (1)   Written cash journal;
      (2)   Cash summary; and
      (3)   Reconciled bank statement.
   (B)   At the first regular meeting of the Council in January of each year,
the Fiscal Officer shall report to it the condition of the finances of the
municipality, the amount received by the Fiscal Officer, the sources of the
receipts, the disbursements made by him or her, and on what account, during the
year preceding. This account shall exhibit the balance due on each fund which
has come into the Fiscal Officer’s hands during the year.
(R.C. § 733.46)  (Ord. 1137-08, passed 9-2-2008)
CHAPTER 31:  VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Mayor
   
31.02   Fiscal Officer
   
31.03   Solicitor
   
31.04   Village Administrator
§ 31.01  MAYOR.
   The salary for the Mayor shall be as established by ordinance of the Council
from time to time.
(1997 Code, § 31.01)  (Ord. 713-83, passed 6-13-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Village Mayor, see R.C. §§ 733.23 through 733.25
§ 31.02  FISCAL OFFICER.
   (A)   Fiscal Officer.  The position of Fiscal Officer is hereby created to
perform the duties formerly performed by the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Residency.  The Fiscal Officer is not required to be a resident of the
village but may reside outside the village.
   (C)   Compensation, bond, benefits and hours.
      (1)   The salary of the Fiscal Officer shall be an amount established by
resolution of Village Council from time to time.
      (2)   The bond of the Fiscal Officer shall be $50,000.
      (3)   The Fiscal Officer shall receive vacations and holidays in the same
manner as village employees pursuant to
Chapter 34.
      (4)   The Fiscal Officer shall maintain office hours as set by Council
for the operation of the village office.
   (D)   Allocation, re-allocation of funds.  Commencing with the 2011
appropriations, the Fiscal Officer for the village shall hereinafter be
authorized to allocate or re-allocate funds within village funds covered by a
previously adopted appropriation. The Fiscal Officer shall provide Council with
a report of any money moved within a fund at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of Council.
(1997 Code, § 31.02)  (Ord. 444, passed 7-12-1965; Ord. 528, passed 1-8-1973;
Ord. 870-94, passed 6-13-1994; Ord. 954-99, passed 6-14-1999; Ord. 978-01,
passed 2-12-2001; Ord. 1179-09, passed 8-3-2009; Ord. 1210-11, passed 4-4-2011)
§ 31.03  SOLICITOR.
   (A)   Employment and term.  Legal counsel shall be provided for the village,
and the person employed as such counsel shall be known as the Solicitor of the
village. The Solicitor shall be employed for a period not exceeding two years.
   (B)   Qualifications and duties.  The Solicitor shall be an attorney at law,
admitted to practice in the courts of the state. It shall be the duty of the
Solicitor to act as attorney and counsel for the village and the officers
thereof in their capacity, and as such attorney, to prosecute and defend all
actions by or against the village or any department or officer thereof during
the term of his or her employment, and to render legal opinions to Council and
to any department or officer of the village upon request in writing.
(1997 Code, § 31.03)  (Ord. 571-76, passed 4-12-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Legal counsel, see R.C. § 733.48
   Preparation of bonds, see R.C. § 733.70
§ 31.04  VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Creation.  The position of Village Administrator is hereby
established.
   (B)   Appointment.  The Village Administrator shall be appointed by the
Mayor, but shall not take office unless his or her appointment has been
approved by a majority vote of Council.
   (C)   Residency.  The Village Administrator is not required to be a resident
of the village.
   (D)   Removal procedure.  The Village Administrator shall serve at the
pleasure of the Mayor and Council and may be removed without cause by the Mayor
with the consent of the majority of the members of Council, or may be removed
without cause by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of Council, without the
consent of the Mayor.
   (E)   Board of Trustees of Public Affairs, Street Commissioner and Zoning
Administrator abolished.
      (1)   When the Village Administrator has been appointed by the Mayor and
approved for the position by Council, the Board of Trustees of Public Affairs
shall be abolished and the term of office of members of the Board shall
automatically terminate.
      (2)   When the Village Administrator has been appointed by the Mayor and
approved for the position by Council, the position of Street Commissioner shall
be abolished and the term of office of the Street Commissioner shall
automatically terminate.
      (3)   When the Village Administrator has been appointed by the Mayor and
approved for the position by Council, the position of Zoning Administrator
shall be abolished and the term of office of the Zoning Administrator shall
automatically terminate.
   (F)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Village Administrator shall manage, conduct and control the
Water and Sewer and Street Departments, and shall be responsible for the
collection of all rents related thereto.
      (2)   The Village Administrator may make such bylaws and regulations as
are deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
Water and Sewer and Street Departments.
      (3)   Such bylaws and regulations shall be consistent with the ordinances
of the village and shall have the same validity as the ordinances.
      (4)   The Village Administrator shall have the same powers and perform
the same duties as are provided for in R.C. §§ 743.05 through 743.07,
inclusive, 743.10, 743.11, 743.18 and 743.24.
      (5)   The Village Administrator shall supervise the improvement and
repair of streets, avenues, alleys, lands, lanes, squares, landings, bridges,
viaducts, sidewalks, sewers, drains, ditches, culverts, channels, streams and
watercourses, as well as the lighting, sprinkling and cleaning of all streets,
alleys and public buildings and places.
      (6)   The Village Administrator shall perform all duties and shall have
all powers of Board of Trustees of Public Affairs and Street Commissioners as
prescribed by law, except as otherwise provided by this section and the
ordinance creating the position of Village Administrator.
      (7)   The Village Administrator shall investigate and apply for any
grants which are available to improve or maintain the village, subject to the
direction of Council.
      (8)   The Village Administrator shall perform such other functions as are
deemed necessary by Council.
      (9)   The Village Administrator shall submit a monthly report to Council,
outlining the Administrator’s activities in the previous month.
      (10)   The Village Administrator shall be under the general supervision
and control of the Mayor.
      (11)   The Village Administrator shall perform all duties and shall have
all powers of the Zoning Administrator as provided for Title XV of the codified
ordinances and in the Ohio Revised Code. These duties shall include but not be
limited to the following:
         (a)   The appointee shall attend all meetings of the Planning
Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals when notified by the Chairpersons of
those bodies. The appointee shall enforce the village zoning ordinance in
accordance with its provisions;
         (b)   From time to time the appointee shall make recommendations to
Council and the Board of Zoning Appeals toward a more workable and effective
zoning administration; and
         (c)   The appointee shall perform sidewalk inspection pursuant to the
direction of Council.
   (G)   Full-time.  The Village Administrator, shall be employed by the
village on a full-time basis, with sick and vacation time extended to employees
of the village effective as of his or her date of full- time status with the
village, while remaining an at will employee.
(1997 Code, § 31.04)  (Ord. 746-86, passed 5-12-1986; Ord. 747-86, passed 5-12-
1986; Ord. 859-93, passed 3-22-1993; Ord. 860-93, passed 3-22-1993; Ord. 1241-
12, passed 5-7-2012)
Cross-reference:
   Village Administrator as purchasing agent, see §
36.02
   Village Administrator to execute contracts, spend funds and execute purchase
orders, see §
36.03
   Village Administrator in relation to shade trees, see §
96.02(A)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment and removal, see R.C. § 735.271
   Powers and duties, see R.C. § 735.273
   Contracts; central purchasing, see R.C. § 731.141
CHAPTER 32:  DEPARTMENTS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
32.01   Police Department
   
32.02   Records Commission
§ 32.01  POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Deputy Marshals, night security officers, safety patrol officers and
special police officers.  Pursuant to R.C. § 737.16, the Mayor, subject to the
approval and confirmation of Council, shall have the right to appoint Deputy
Marshals, night security officers, safety patrol officers and special police
officers, and shall have the right to fix and limit the term of appointment and
salary.
   (B)   Bond.  Any officer so appointed and the term of whose appointment is
for longer than one month, shall furnish a bond in an amount to be established
by Council conditioned as provided by law and with sufficient sureties thereon
for the faithful performance of his or her duties.
   (C)   Mutual aid contracts.  The Police Chief is authorized and directed to
enter into mutual aid contracts with various Police Departments in the state
for emergency equipment, personnel and supplies in case of emergencies, and to
approve invoices for the same. These contracts shall contain, inter alia, terms
which provide as follows:
      (1)   In the event of a police emergency each party may request, in
writing, aid from the other in the form of additional manpower and/or
equipment;
      (2)   Each such request for aid shall specify, to the extent practicable,
the assistance required and an estimate of the length of time said assistance
may be needed;
      (3)   Each responding community need only respond to the extent
consistent with the proper and safe operation of its own Police Department;
      (4)   Personnel of the aiding community shall be considered acting within
the scope of his or her employment, to the same extent as if he or she were
performing his or her regular duties, while engaged in such aid;
      (5)   Under no circumstances shall the responding party or its employees
so responding be liable to the requesting party, its inhabitants or others, for
any damages arising in any way as a result of the rendering of such aid for the
failure to respond to a call for such aid; and
      (6)   Each contract shall be in effect for a one-year period, with a
provision for automatic renewal unless cancelled by a 30-day notice.
   (D)   Auxiliary police officers.
      (1)   All auxiliary officers shall be fully certified by the Ohio Peace
Officers Training Council, at the time of their appointment.
      (2)   Auxiliary police officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of a majority of Council. Auxiliary police officers may be terminated
by the Mayor.
      (3)   All auxiliary officers shall be required to have 24 scheduled hours
of training within the Village Police Department prior to being assigned to
regular patrol duty. After completion of training, all auxiliary officers shall
be required to fulfill a minimum requirement of 24 hours of police duty, per
28-day period.
(1997 Code, § 32.01)  (Ord. 960-99, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 1015-03, passed 7-
7-2003; Ord. 1019-03, passed 8-4-2003; Ord. 1119-07, passed 9-4-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Offenses affecting employment, see R.C. § 737.162
   Peace officer training certificate required for permanent employment, see
R.C. § 109.77
   Police and Firefighter’s Disability and Pension Fund, see R.C. Chapter 742
   Stolen and unclaimed property, see R.C. §§ 737.29 et seq.
   Village police protection, see R.C. §§ 737.15 et seq.
§ 32.02  RECORDS COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment and composition.
      (1)   A Records Commission is hereby established for the village.
      (2)   The Records Commission shall be composed of the Mayor, Fiscal
Officer, Solicitor and a resident of the village as appointed by the Mayor. The
Mayor shall be the Chairperson of the Records Commission, which shall meet at
least once every six months, upon the call of the Chairperson.
   (B)   Duties.  The functions of the Records Commission shall be to provide
rules for the retention and disposal of records of the village and to review
applications for one-time records disposal and schedules of records retention
for the various village departments and offices.
   (C)   Records disposal procedure.
      (1)   Records may be disposed of pursuant to the rules and regulations as
established by the Records Commission. The Records Commission may at any time
review any schedule it has previously approved, and for good cause shown may
revise that schedule.
      (2)   When village records have been approved for disposal, a list of
such records shall be sent to the Auditor of State. If the Auditor of State
disapproves of the action by the Records Commission, in whole or in part, he or
she shall inform the Records Commission within a period of 60 days, and these
records shall not be destroyed.
      (3)   Before public records are disposed of, the Ohio Historical Society
shall be informed and given the opportunity for a period of 60 days to select
for its custody such public records as it considers to be of continuing
historical value.
(1997 Code, § 32.03)  (Ord. 741-86, passed 2-10-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Creation; functions; disposal of records, see R.C. § 149.39
   Limitations on recordkeeping, see R.C. § 149.40
CHAPTER 33:  PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Purpose
   
33.03   Notice of regular and organizational meetings
   
33.04   Notice of special meetings; notice to news media
   
33.05   Notification of discussion of specific types of public business
   
33.06   Information available in person or by telephone
   
33.07   Compliance with notification rules
Statutory reference:
   Open meetings, see R.C. § 121.22
§ 33.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DAY.  Calendar day.
   FISCAL OFFICER.  The Fiscal Officer of the village.
   MEETING.  Any prearranged discussion of the public business of the municipal
body by a majority of the members of the municipal body.
   MUNICIPAL BODY.  Each of the following:
      (1)   Council;
      (2)   Planning Commission; and
      (3)   Board of Zoning Appeals and committees of the above municipal
bodies comprising of members of such bodies if such committees have two or more
members of the main municipal body on them, or are decision-making committees.
   ORAL NOTIFICATION.  Notification given orally either in person or by
telephone, directly to the person for whom such notification is intended, or by
leaving an oral message for such person at the address, or if by telephone at
the telephone number, of such person as shown on the records kept by the Fiscal
Officer under these rules.
   POST.
      (1)   To post in an area accessible to the public during the usual
business hours at the office of the Fiscal Officer and at the following
locations: Clermont County Court House.
      (2)   A notice identifying the locations at which notifications will be
posted pursuant to these rules shall be published by the Fiscal Officer within
ten calendar days after the adoption of these rules.
   PUBLISHED.  Published once in a newspaper having a general circulation in
the municipality, as defined in R.C. § 7.12, except that no portion of such
newspaper need be printed in the municipality. If at the time of any such
publication there is no such newspaper of general circulation, then such
publication shall be in a newspaper then determined by the Fiscal Officer to
have the largest circulation in the municipality.
   SPECIAL MEETING.  A meeting which is neither a regular meeting nor an
adjournment of a regular or special meeting to another time or day to consider
items specifically stated on the original agenda of such regular or special
meeting.
   WRITTEN NOTIFICATION.  Notification in writing mailed, telegraphed or
delivered to the address of the person for whom such notification is intended
as shown on the records kept by the Fiscal Officer under these rules, or in any
way delivered to such person. If mailed, such notification shall be mailed by
first class mail, deposited in a United States postal service mailbox no later
than the second day preceding the day of the meeting to which such notification
refers, provided that at least one regular mail delivery day falls between the
day of mailing and the day of such meeting.
(1997 Code, § 33.01)  (Res. 568-76, passed 1-19-1976)
§ 33.02  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The following rules set forth in this chapter are hereby adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 121.22(F) for the purpose of:
      (1)   Establishing a reasonable method for any person to determine the
time and place of all regularly scheduled meetings and the time, place and
purpose of all special meetings;
      (2)   Making provisions for giving advance notice of special meetings to
the news media that have requested notification; and
      (3)   Making provisions for persons to request and obtain reasonable
advance notification of all meetings at which any specific type of public
business is to be discussed.
   (B)   These rules apply to each municipal body of this village, as defined
in §
33.01 and are in addition to any applicable legal requirements as to notices to
members of a municipal body or to others in connection with specific meetings
or specific subject matters.
(1997 Code, § 33.02)  (Res. 568-76, passed 1-19-1976)
§ 33.03  NOTICE OF REGULAR AND ORGANIZATIONAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Fiscal Officer shall post a statement of the time(s) and place(s)
of regular meetings of each municipal body for each calendar year not later
than the second day preceding the day of the first regular meeting (other than
the organizational meeting) of the calendar year of that municipal body. The
Fiscal Officer shall check at reasonable intervals to ensure that such
statement remains so posted during such calendar year. If at any time during
the calendar year the time or place of regular meetings, or if any regular
meeting, is changed on a permanent or temporary basis, a statement of the time
and place of such changed regular meetings shall be so posted by the Fiscal
Officer at least 24 hours before the time of the first changed regular meeting.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer shall post a statement of the time and place of any
organizational meeting of a municipal body at least 24 hours before the time of
such organizational meeting.
   (C)   Upon the adjournment of any regular or special meeting to another day,
the Fiscal Officer shall promptly post notice of the time and place of such
adjourned meeting.
(1997 Code, § 33.03)  (Res. 568-76, passed 1-19-1976)
§ 33.04  NOTICE OF SPECIAL MEETINGS; NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   (A)   Notice of special meetings.
      (1)   Except in the case of a special meeting referred to in division (B)
(4) of this section, the Fiscal Officer shall, no later than 24 hours before
the time of a special meeting of a municipal body, post a statement of the
time, place and purposes of such special meeting.
      (2)   The statement under this section and the notifications under
division (B) of this section shall state such specific or general purpose or
purposes then known to the Fiscal Officer to be intended to be considered at
such special meeting and may state, as an additional general purpose, that any
other business as may properly come before such municipal body at such meeting
may be considered and acted upon.
   (B)   Notice to news media of special meetings.
      (1)   Any news medium organization that desires to be given advance
notification of special meetings of a municipal body shall file with the Fiscal
Officer a written request therefor. Except in the event of an emergency
requiring immediate official action as referred to in division (B)(4) below, a
special meeting shall not be held unless at least 24 hours’ advance notice of
the time, place and purposes of such special meeting is given to the news media
that have requested such advance notification in accordance with division (B)
(2) below.
      (2)   (a)   News media requests for such advance notification of special
meetings shall specify:
            1.   The municipal body that is the subject of such request;
            2.   The name of the medium;
            3.   The name and address of the person to whom written
notification to the medium may be mailed, telegraphed or delivered; and
            4.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers (including
addresses and telephone numbers at which notifications may be given either
during or outside of business hours) of at least two persons to either one of
whom oral notification to the medium may be given.
         (b)   Any such request shall be effective for one year from the date
of filing with the Fiscal Officer or until the Fiscal Officer receives written
notice from such medium canceling or modifying such request, whichever is
earlier. Each requesting news medium shall be informed of such period of
effectiveness at the time it files its request. Such requests may be modified
or extended only by filing a complete new request with the Fiscal Officer. A
request shall not be deemed to be made unless it is complete in all respects,
and such request may be conclusively relied on by the municipal body that is
the subject of such request, and the Fiscal Officer.
      (3)   The Fiscal Officer shall give such oral notification or written
notification, or both, as the Fiscal Officer determines, to the news media that
have requested such advance notification in accordance with division (B)(2)
above, of the time, place and purposes of each special meeting, at least 24
hours prior to the time of such special meeting.
      (4)   In the event of an emergency requiring immediate official action, a
special meeting may be held without giving 24 hours advance notification
thereof to the requesting news media. The persons calling such meeting, or any
one or more of such persons or the Fiscal Officer on their behalf, shall
immediately give oral notification or written notification or both, as the
persons giving such notification determine, of the time, place and purposes of
such special meeting to such news media that have requested such advance
notification in accordance with division (B)(2) of this section. The minutes or
the call, or both, of any such special meeting shall state the general nature
of the emergency requiring immediate official action.
(1997 Code, § 33.04)  (Res. 568-76, passed 1-19-1976)
§ 33.05  NOTIFICATION OF DISCUSSION OF SPECIFIC TYPES OF PUBLIC BUSINESS.
   (A)   Any person, upon written request and as provided herein, may obtain
reasonable advance notification of all meetings at which any specific type of
public business is scheduled to be discussed. Such person may file a written
request with the Fiscal Officer specifying:
      (1)   The person’s name and the address(es) and telephone number(s) at or
through which the person can be reached during and outside of business hours;
      (2)   The specific type of public business the discussion of which the
person is requesting advance notification;
      (3)   The municipal body that is the subject of such request; and
      (4)   The number of calendar months (not to exceed 12) which the request
covers.
   (B)   Such request may be canceled by request from such person to the Fiscal
Officer. Each such written request must be accompanied by cash, or a check or
money order payable to the village, in the amount of $5 for each month covered
by the request, which amount has been determined by Council to represent a
reasonable fee to cover costs of providing such advance notification.
   (C)   Such requests may be modified or extended only by filing a complete
new request with the Fiscal Officer. A request shall not be deemed to be made
unless it is complete in all respects, and such request may be conclusively
relied on by the municipal body that is the subject of such request, and the
Fiscal Officer.
   (D)   The Fiscal Officer shall give such advance notification under this
section by written notification or by oral notification, or both, as the Fiscal
Officer determines.
   (E)   The contents of written notification under this division (E) may be a
copy of the agenda of the meeting. Written notification under this division (E)
may be accomplished by giving advance written notification, by copies of the
agendas, of all meetings of the municipal body that is the subject of such
request.
(1997 Code, § 33.05)  (Res. 568-76, passed 1-19-1976)
§ 33.06  INFORMATION AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR BY TELEPHONE.
   Any person may visit or telephone the office of the Fiscal Officer during
that office’s regular office hours to determine, based on information available
at that office:
   (A)   The time and place of regular meetings;
   (B)   The time, place and purposes of any then known special meetings; and
   (C)   Whether the available agenda of any such future meeting states that
any specific type of public business, identified by such person, is to be
discussed at such meeting.
(1997 Code, § 33.06)  (Res. 568-76, passed 1-19-1976)
§ 33.07  COMPLIANCE WITH NOTIFICATION RULES.
   (A)   Any notification provided herein to be given by the Fiscal Officer may
be given by any person acting in behalf of or under the authority of the Fiscal
Officer.
   (B)   A reasonable attempt at notification shall constitute notification in
compliance with these rules.
   (C)   A certificate by the Fiscal Officer as to compliance with these rules
shall be conclusive upon this village and the municipal body involved. Such
certificate shall be placed with the minutes of such meeting.
   (D)   To better ensure compliance with these rules as to notice and
notification, it shall be the responsibility of the Chairperson or Secretary of
a municipal body other than Council, or the person or persons calling the
meetings, to timely advise the Fiscal Officer of future meetings, and the
subject matters to be discussed thereat, of such municipal body.
(1997 Code, § 33.07)  (Res. 568-76, passed 1-19-1976)
CHAPTER 34:  PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 34.01  REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The village personnel regulations, as may be adopted by Council or amended
from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference as if set forth in full in
this code of ordinances.
(1997 Code, § 34.01)
CHAPTER 35:  INCOME TAX
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Purpose; exemptions
   
35.02   Definitions
Taxation Procedures
   
35.15   Imposition of tax
   
35.16   Effective period
   
35.17   Return and payment of tax
   
35.18   Collection at source
   
35.19   Declarations
   
35.20   Interest and penalties on unpaid tax
   
35.21   Collection of unpaid taxes and refunds of overpayments
   
35.22   Allocation of funds
Administration and Enforcement
   
35.35   Income Tax Bureau; authority
   
35.36   Investigative powers of Commissioner; information confidential
   
35.37   Board of Review
   
35.38   Violations
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01  PURPOSE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities and capital improvements of the village, there is hereby levied a
tax on salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation, and on net profits
as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to any person, firm or corporation, or to
any property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of Council to impose
the tax herein provided for.
(1997 Code, § 35.01)  (Ord. 556-74, passed 12-9-1974)
§ 35.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION.  A partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise, owned by two or more persons.
   BOARD OF REVIEW.  The Board created by and constituted as provided for in §
35.37.
   BUSINESS.  An enterprise, activity, profession or undertaking of any nature
conducted for profit or ordinarily conducted for profit, whether by an
individual, partnership, association, corporation or any other entity.
   CORPORATION.  A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the State of Ohio or any other state, territory or
foreign country or dependency.
   EMPLOYEE.  One who works for wages, salary, commission or other type of
compensation in the services of any employer.
   EMPLOYER.  An individual, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental body, unit or agency or any other entity, whether or not organized
for profit, who or that employs one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission or other compensation basis.
   FISCAL YEAR.  An accounting period of 12 months ending on any day other than
December 31.
   GROSS RECEIPTS.  Total income of taxpayers from whatever source derived.
   MUNICIPALITY.  The Village of Batavia.
   NET PROFITS.  The net gain from all operations including those pertaining to
capital gains and losses of a business, profession or enterprise after
provision for all ordinary and necessary expense, except taxes imposed by this
chapter, and federal and other taxes based on income, paid or accrued in
accordance with the accounting system used by the taxpayer for federal income
tax purposes, and, in the case of an association, without deduction of salaries
paid to partners or the owners.
   NONRESIDENT.  A person, whether an individual, association, corporation or
other entity, domiciled outside the village.
   PERSON.  Every person, partnership, fiduciary, association, corporation or
other entity. Whenever used in any clause prescribed and imposing a penalty,
the term PERSON, as applied to any association, includes the partners or
members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS.  Any bona fide office (other than a mere statutory
office); factory, warehouse or other space which is occupied and used by the
taxpayer in carrying on any business activity, individually or through one or
more of his or her employees, regularly in attendance.
   RESIDENT.  A person, whether an individual, association, corporation or
other entity, domiciled in the village.
   TAX YEAR.  The calendar year or the fiscal year upon the basis of which net
profits are to be computed under this chapter and, in the case of a return for
a fractional part of a year, the period for which such return is required to be
made.
   TAX COMMISSIONER.  The Tax Commissioner of the village or the person
executing the duties of the aforesaid Commissioner.
   TAXPAYER.  A person, whether an individual, partnership, association,
corporation or other entity, required by this chapter to file a return or pay a
tax.
   VILLAGE.  The Village of Batavia.
(1997 Code, § 35.02)  (Ord. 556-74, passed 12-9-1974)
TAXATION PROCEDURES
§ 35.15  IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   Basis of imposition.  Subject to the provisions of §
35.01(B), an annual tax, for the purposes specified in §
35.01(A) is hereby levied at the rate of 1% per annum, upon the following:
      (1)   On all salaries, wages, including sick and vacation pay, accrued
leave pay, commissions and other compensation earned by or paid to residents;
      (2)   On all salaries, wages, including sick and vacation pay, accrued
leave pay, commissions and other compensation earned by or paid to nonresidents
for work done or service performed in the municipality;
      (3)   (a)   On the portion attributable to the municipality of the net
profits earned during the effective period of this chapter of all resident
associations, unincorporated businesses, professions or other entities derived
from sales made, work done or services performed or rendered, or business or
other activities conducted in the municipality; and
         (b)   On a resident partner’s or owner’s share of the net profits
earned during the effective period of this chapter of a resident association or
other unincorporated entity not attributable to the municipality and not levied
against such association or other unincorporated entity.
      (4)   (a)   On the portion attributable to the municipality of the net
profits earned during the effective period of this chapter, of all nonresident
associations, unincorporated businesses, professions or other entities, derived
from sales made, work done or services performed or rendered or business ties
conducted in the municipality, whether or not such association or other
unincorporated entity has an office or place of business in the municipality;
and
         (b)   On a resident partner’s or owner’s share of the net profits
earned during the effective period of this chapter of a nonresident association
or other unincorporated entity not attributable to the municipality and not
levied against such association or other entity.
      (5)   On the net profits earned during the effective period of this
chapter of all corporations derived from sales made, work done or services
performed or rendered, and business or other activities conducted in the
municipality whether or not such corporation has an office or place of business
in the municipality.
   (B)   Allocation of net profits.  Where a person conducts a business both
within and outside the municipality, the portion of the entire net profits of
such business to be allocated as having been made within the municipality may
be determined from the records of such business, if such business has bona fide
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy what portion of its net profits
is attributable to that part of its activities conducted within the
municipality or at the option of the taxpayer may be determined by the
following formula, which shall be used if taxpayer has no bona fide records
showing net profits from village business activities, subject, however, to the
provisions of division (D)(2) hereof.
      (1)   Multiply the entire net profits of the business by a business
allocation percentage to be determined by:
         (a)   Ascertaining the percentage with the average net book value of
the real and tangible personal property owned or used in the business and
situated within the municipality, during the period covered by the return is of
the average net book value of all the real and tangible personal property owned
or used in the business, wherever situated, during such period;
         (b)   Ascertaining the percentage which the gross receipts of the
business from sales made and services performed in the municipality, during the
period covered by the return, are of the total gross receipts from all sales
and services, wherever made or performed, during such period;
         (c)   Ascertaining the percentage which the total wages, salaries,
commissions and other compensation paid, during the period covered by the
return, to employees for services performed in the municipality is of the total
wages, salaries, commissions and other compensation paid during such period to
all employees within and outside the municipality; and
         (d)   Adding together the percentages determined in accordance with
divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(1)(b) and (B)(1)(c) above, or such of the aforesaid
percentages as are applicable to the particular taxpayer, and dividing the
total so obtained by the number of percentages used in deriving that total.
      (2)   A factor is applicable even though it may be allocable entirely in
or outside the municipality.
      (3)   In the event a just and equitable result cannot be obtained under
the formulas provided for herein, the Board of Review, upon application of the
taxpayer or the Tax Commissioner, shall, under uniform regulations adopted by
the Board, have the authority to substitute other factors or methods calculated
to effect a fair and proper allocation.
   (C)   Operating loss carry-forward.
      (1)   The portion of a net operating loss sustained in any taxable year,
beginning with January 1, 1975, allocable to the municipality, may be applied
against the portion of the profit of succeeding tax years, allocable to the
municipality, until exhausted, but in no event for more than the five taxable
years immediately following the year in which the loss occurred. No portion of
a net operating loss shall be carried back against net profits of any prior
year.
      (2)   The portion of a net operating loss sustained shall be allocated to
the municipality in the same manner as provided herein for allocating net
profits to the municipality.
      (3)   The Tax Commissioner shall provide by rules and regulations the
manner in which such net operating loss carry-forward shall be determined.
   (D)   Consolidated returns.
      (1)   Filing of consolidated returns may be permitted or required in
accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the Tax Commissioner.
      (2)   In the case of a corporation that carried on transactions with its
stockholders or with other corporations related by stock ownership,
interlocking directorates or some other method, the Tax Commissioner shall
require such information, in addition to the return hereinafter provided for,
as he or she may deem necessary to ascertain whether net profits are properly
allocated to the municipality. If the Tax Commissioner finds net profits are
not properly allocated to the municipality by reason of transactions with
stockholders or with other corporations related by stock ownership,
interlocking directorates or some other method, he or she may require the
filing of a consolidated return or adjust such transactions so as to produce a
fair and proper allocation of net profits to the municipality.
   (E)   Exception.  The tax provided for herein shall not be levied upon the
military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of the United States,
or upon the net profits of any civic, charitable, religious, fraternal or other
organization specified in R.C. Chapter 718 to the extent that such net profits
are exempted from municipal income taxes under such chapter.
(1997 Code, § 35.15)  (Ord. 556-74, passed 12-9-1974; Ord. 822-91, passed 3-11-
1991; Ord. 1183-09, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 35.16  EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be levied, collected and paid with
respect to all income and net profits, subject to the tax, earned on or after
January 1, 1975.
(1997 Code, § 35.16)  (Ord. 556-74, passed 12-9-1974)
§ 35.17  RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Date and exemptions.  Each person who engaged in business, or whose
salary, wages, commissions or other compensation are subject to the tax imposed
by this chapter shall, whether or not a tax is due thereon, make and file, on
or before April 30 in each year beginning with the year 1976, a return with the
Tax Commissioner. A taxpayer on a fiscal year accounting basis for federal
income tax purposes shall, beginning with his or her first fiscal year, any
part of which falls within the effective period of this chapter, file his or
her return within four months from the end of such fiscal year or period. The
Tax Commissioner is hereby authorized to provide by regulation that the return
of an employer or employers, showing the amount of tax deducted by the employer
or employers from the salaries, wages, commissions or other compensation of an
employee, and paid by the employer or employers to the Tax Commissioner shall
be accepted as the return required of any employee whose sole income, subject
to tax under this chapter, is such salary, wages, commissions or other
compensation.
   (B)   Returns and contents thereof.  The return shall be filed with the Tax
Commissioner on a form or forms furnished by or obtainable upon request from
the Tax Commissioner setting forth:
      (1)   The aggregate amounts of salaries, wages, commissions and other
compensation earned, and gross income from any business, profession or other
activity, less allowable expenses incurred in the acquisition of such gross
income, earned during the preceding year and subject to such tax;
      (2)   The amount of the tax imposed by this chapter on such earnings and
profits; and
      (3)   Such other pertinent statements, information returns or other
information as the Tax Commissioner may require, including a statement that the
figures used in the return are the figures used in the return for federal
income tax, adjusted to set forth only such income as is taxable under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Extensions.  The Tax Commissioner may extend the time for filing of
the annual return upon the request of the taxpayer for a period of not more
than six months, or one month beyond any extension requested of or granted by
the Internal Revenue Service for filing of the federal income tax return. The
Tax Commissioner may require a tentative return, accompanied by payment of the
amount of tax shown to be due thereon by the date the return is normally due.
No penalty or interest shall be assessed in those cases in which the return is
filed and the final tax paid within the period as extended.
   (D)   Payment with returns.
      (1)   The taxpayer making a return shall at the time of the filing
thereof pay to the Tax Commissioner the amount of taxes shown as due thereon;
however, where the source, pursuant to the provisions of §
35.18 or where any portion of such tax has been paid by the taxpayer pursuant
to the provisions of §
35.19.
      (2)   A taxpayer who has overpaid the amount of tax to which the
municipality is entitled under the provisions of this chapter may have such
overpayment applied against any subsequent liability hereunder or at his or her
election indicated on the return, such overpayment or part thereof, shall be
refunded, provided that no additional taxes or refunds of less than $1 shall be
collected or refunded.
   (E)   Amended returns.
      (1)   Where necessary an amended return must be filed in order to report
additional income and pay any additional tax due, or claim a refund of tax
overpaid, subject to the requirements and limitations contained in §
35.21. Such amended returns shall be on a form obtainable on request from the
Tax Commissioner.
      (2)   Within three months from the final determination of any federal tax
liability affecting the taxpayer’s village tax liability, such taxpayer shall
make and file an amended village return, showing income subject to the
municipal tax based upon such final determination of federal tax liability, and
pay any additional tax shown thereon, or make claim for refund of any
overpayment.
(1997 Code, § 35.17)  (Ord. 556-74, passed 12-9-1974; Ord. 1049-04, passed 12-
6-2004)
§ 35.18  COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   (A)   Withholding by employer.  Each employer within, or doing business
within, the municipality, who employs one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission or other compensation basis shall deduct at the time of the payment
of such salary, wage, commission or other compensation due by the employer to
each employee, and shall, on or before the last day of April, July, October and
January of each year, beginning with April 1975, make a return and pay to the
Tax Commissioner the amount of taxes so deducted during the preceding calendar
quarter. The return shall be on a form or forms prescribed by or acceptable to
the Tax Commissioner and shall be subject to the rules and regulations
prescribed therefor by the Tax Commissioner.
   (B)   Employer considered as trustee.  Each employer in collecting such tax
shall be deemed to hold the same, until payment is made by such employer to the
municipality, as a trustee for the benefit of the municipality, and any such
tax collected by such employer from his or her employees shall, until the same
is paid to the municipality, be deemed a trust fund in the hands of such
employer. Each employee shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to
be deducted and withheld, whether or not such tax, in fact, has been withheld.
   (C)   Corporate officers personal liability.  It shall be the
responsibility, jointly and severally, of the president and treasurer of each
corporation required to withhold the tax from wages of its employees under this
section to see that all such taxes so withheld are paid to the municipality in
accordance with the provisions of this section. In the event taxes withheld by
a corporation from the salaries of its employees are not paid to the
municipality in accordance with the provisions of this section, the president
and treasurer of the corporation shall each be criminally liable under the
provisions of §
35.99.
   (D)   Employees’ listings.  On or before April 30 of each year, beginning
with the year 1976, each employer shall file a withholding return, on a form or
forms prescribed by and obtainable from the Tax Commissioner, setting forth the
names and addresses of all employees from whose compensation the tax was
withheld during the preceding calendar year, and the amount of tax withheld
from the listed employees and such other information as may be required by the
rules and regulations adopted by the Tax Commissioner.
   (E)   Domestic servants.  No person shall be required to withhold the tax on
the wages or other compensation paid domestic servants employed exclusively in
or about such person’s residence. However, such domestic servants shall be
responsible for filing and paying their own returns and taxes.
(1997 Code, § 35.18)  (Ord. 556-74, passed 12-9-1974)  Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.19  DECLARATIONS.
   (A)   Requirement for filing. Every person who anticipates any taxable
income which is not subject to §
35.18, or engages in any business, profession, enterprise or activity, shall
file a declaration setting forth such estimated income or the estimated profit
or loss from such business activity, together with the estimated tax due
thereon, if any.
   (B)   Dates for filing.
      (1)   Such declaration shall be filed on or before April 30 of each year,
beginning with the year 1975 during the life of this chapter, or within four
months of the date the taxpayer first becomes subject to the provisions of this
section.
      (2)   Those taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a
declaration within four months after the start of each fiscal year or period.
   (C)   Credit for tax withheld or paid another community.
      (1)   Such declaration shall be filed upon a form furnished by or
obtainable from the Tax Commissioner.
      (2)   Beginning with the year 1975, a declaration of estimated tax to be
paid the municipality shall be accompanied by a payment of at least one-fourth
of the estimated tax, less credit for taxes withheld or paid to another
municipality, and at least a similar amount shall be paid on or before the last
day of the seventh, tenth and thirteenth months after the beginning of the tax
year.
      (3)   A declaration may be amended at any time, provided that if an
amended declaration is filed, the unpaid balance shown due thereon shall be
paid in equal installments on or before the remaining payment dates.
   (D)   Amended declaration.  An amended declaration may be filed with the
filing of any quarterly return. If it appears that the original declaration and
payments made for such year underestimated the taxpayer’s income by 30% or more
the difference between 70% of such taxpayer’s tax liability and the amount of
estimated tax he or she actually paid on or before December 31 or the date
fixed by regulation, whichever is applicable, shall be subject to the interest
and penalty provisions of §
35.20.
   (E)   Annual return required.  On or before the last day of the fourth month
of the calendar or fiscal year following that for which the declaration was
filed, an annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due the
municipality shall be paid therewith in accordance with the provisions of §
35.17.
(1997 Code, § 35.19)  (Ord. 556-74, passed 12-9-1974; Ord. 1049-04, passed 12-
6-2004)
§ 35.20  INTEREST AND PENALTIES ON UNPAID TAX.
   (A)   Interest.  All taxes imposed and monies withheld or required to be
withheld by employers under the provisions of this chapter remaining unpaid
after they became due, shall bear interest at the rate of 0.5% per month.
   (B)   Penalties.  In addition to interest as provided in division (A)
hereof, penalties for failure to pay taxes and to withhold and remit taxes
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter are hereby imposed as follows:
      (1)   In case of taxpayers failing to pay the full amount of tax due, a
penalty of the higher of:
         (a)   Twenty-five dollars; or
         (b)   One percent per month, or fraction thereof, of the amount of the
unpaid tax, if the tax is paid during the first six months after the tax became
due; a penalty of 2% per month, or fraction thereof, of the unpaid tax, if the
tax is paid between the seventh and twelfth months after the tax became due;
and a penalty of 4% per month, or fraction thereof, of the amount of the unpaid
tax, if the tax is paid later than 12 months after it became due. The
percentages herein specified, when used, shall apply from the first month of
delinquency.
      (2)   In the case of employers who fail to withhold and remit to the Tax
Commissioner the taxes to be withheld from employees, a penalty of the higher
of:
         (a)   Fifty dollars; or
         (b)   Two percent per month, or fraction thereof, of the unpaid
withholding, if paid during the first three months after it was due; a penalty
of 4% per month or fraction thereof, of the unpaid withholding, if paid during
the fourth to sixth month, inclusive, after it was due; and a penalty of 5% per
month or fraction thereof, of the unpaid withholding, if paid later than six
months after it was due. The percentages herein specified, when used, shall
apply from the first month of delinquency.
   (C)   Exceptions.  A penalty shall not be assessed or an additional tax
assessment made by the Tax Commissioner when a return has been filed in good
faith and the tax paid thereon within the time prescribed by the Tax
Commissioner; and in the absence of fraud, neither penalty nor interest shall
be assessed on any additional tax assessment resulting from a federal audit,
providing an amended return is filed and the additional tax is paid within
three months after final determination of the federal tax liability.
   (D)   Abatement by Board of Review.  Upon an appeal from the refusal of the
Tax Commissioner to recommend abatement of penalty and interest, the Board of
Review may abate such penalty or interest, or both.
(1997 Code, § 35.20)  (Ord. 556-74, passed 12-9-1974)
§ 35.21  COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES AND REFUNDS OF OVERPAYMENTS.
   (A)   Time limitation on suits.
      (1)   All taxes imposed by this chapter shall be collectible, together
with any interest and penalties thereon, by suit as other debts of like amount
are recoverable. No additional assessment shall be made after three years from
the time of payment of any tax due hereunder.
      (2)   However, there shall be no period of limitation on an additional
assessment in the case of a return that omits gross income in excess of 25% of
that required to be reported or in the case of filing a false or fraudulent
return with intent to evade the tax, or in the case of a failure to file a
return.
      (3)   In those cases in which the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and
the taxpayer have executed a waiver of the federal statute of limitations, the
period within which an additional assessment may be made by the Tax
Commissioner shall be extended one year from the time of the final
determination of the federal tax liability.
   (B)   Time limitation on refunds. Taxes erroneously paid shall not be
refunded unless a claim for refund is made within three years from the date on
which such payment was made or the return was due, or within three months after
final determination of the federal tax liability, whichever is later.
   (C)   Costs of collection of taxes.
      (1)   In the event the Tax Commissioner attempts to collect delinquent
taxes through the civil courts, or a collection service, reasonable
administrative costs of collection shall be deducted from all sums received
before crediting said sum for the payment of delinquent taxes.
      (2)   Reasonable administrative costs associated with the delinquent tax
collection, includes but is not limited to fees no less than 25% of the total
delinquent amount, including the tax amount, interest and penalties of any post
judgment account assigned to a collection agency and no greater than 35% of the
total delinquent amount, including tax amount, interest and penalties of any
prejudgment account assigned to a collection agency.
(1997 Code, § 35.21)  (Ord. 556-74, passed 12-9-1974; Ord. 1101-17, passed 3-5-
2007)
§ 35.22  ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be deposited
in the Income Tax Fund and such funds collected from the imposition date of the
tax under this chapter shall be disbursed in the following manner:
   (A)   Such part thereof as is necessary to defray all cost of collecting the
taxes and the cost of administering and enforcing the provisions thereof; and
   (B)   The balance of any monies collected shall be allocated as follows:
      (1)   Monies shall be allocated into specific funds consistent with the
annual budget of the village as adopted by Council, as funds are collected, to
the extent any specific budgeted fund still requires funding starting with 2012
tax monies; and
      (2)   No allocation of monies shall be made in violation of the law of
the state.
(1997 Code, § 35.22)  (Ord. 556-74, passed 12-9-1974; Ord. 817-90, passed 12-
10-1990; Ord. 822-91, passed 3-11-1991; Ord. 981-01, passed 7-9-2001; Ord.
1130-08, passed 4-7-2008; Ord. 1141-08, passed 11-3-2008; Ord. 1150-09, passed
2-18-2009; Ord. 1158-09, passed 3-30-2009; Ord. 1236-11, passed 12-5-2011)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 35.35  INCOME TAX BUREAU; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Collection and maintenance responsibility.
      (1)   There is hereby created an Income Tax Bureau for the administration
of the provisions of this chapter. Such Bureau shall consist of a Tax
Commissioner, Deputy Tax Commissioner and such clerical and secretarial
personnel as may be determined to be necessary for the administration of this
chapter. All such personnel shall be appointed by the Mayor, except that the
Tax Commissioner shall be appointed by the Mayor annually on a calendar year
basis with the approval of Council. The Tax Commissioner’s salary shall be
determined by Council on a calendar year basis.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Tax Commissioner to collect and receive
the tax imposed by this chapter in the manner prescribed therein, and to keep
an accurate record thereof, and to report all monies so received.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the Tax Commissioner to enforce payment of
all income taxes owing the municipality, to keep accurate records for a minimum
of five years, showing the amount due from each taxpayer required to file a
declaration or make any return including a return of taxes withheld, and to
show the dates and amounts of payments thereof.
   (B)   Enforcement authority.  The Tax Commissioner is hereby charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, and is hereby empowered,
subject to the approval of the Board of Review, to adopt and promulgate and to
enforce rules and regulations authorized or required by this chapter, relating
to any matter or thing pertaining to the collection and payment of taxes and
the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter including
provisions for the re-examination and correction of returns.
   (C)   Determination of taxes.
      (1)   In any case where a taxpayer has failed to file a return or a
taxpayer has failed to pay the tax due on a return which does not show the
proper amount of tax due, the Tax Commissioner may determine the amount of tax
appearing to be due the village from the taxpayer based on any information in
his or her possession and send to such taxpayer a written statement showing the
amount of tax so determined, together with interest and penalties thereon, if
any.
      (2)   Such determination may be modified or amended based upon
information or data subsequently secured by or made available to the Tax
Commissioner.
      (3)   If the taxpayer fails to either, amend and resubmit the tax return
to the village, or file an appeal with the Review Board, within 30 days, the
tax, penalties and interest assessed shall become due and payable and
collectible as are other unpaid taxes.
   (D)   Compromise authority.  Subject to the consent of the Board of Review
or pursuant to regulation approved by the Board of Review, the Tax Commissioner
shall have the power to compromise any liability imposed by this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 35.35)  (Ord. 556-74, passed 12-9-1974; Ord. 594-77, passed 12-
12-1977; Ord. 1101-17, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 35.36  INVESTIGATIVE POWERS OF COMMISSIONER; INFORMATION CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Examination of taxpayers records.  The Tax Commissioner, or any of his
or her authorized agents, is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers,
records and federal income tax returns of any employer or taxpayer, or any
person subject to, or whom the Tax Commissioner believes subject to, the
provisions of this chapter for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any
withholdings due under this chapter. Every such employer, supposed employer,
taxpayer or supposed taxpayer, is hereby directed and required to furnish, upon
written request of the Tax Commissioner or his or her duly authorized agent or
employees, the means, facilities and opportunity for making such examinations
and investigations as are hereby authorized.
   (B)   Appearance orders to taxpayers. The Tax Commissioner is hereby
authorized to order any person, presumed to have knowledge of the facts, to
appear at the office of the Tax Commissioner and to examine such person, under
oath, concerning any income which was or should have been returned for
taxation, or withheld, or any transaction tending to affect such income, and
for this purpose may compel the production of books, papers, records and
federal income tax returns, and the attendance of all persons before him or
her, whether as parties or witnesses, whenever he or she believes such persons
have knowledge of such income or information pertinent to such inquiry.
   (C)   Result of refusal to submit information.  The refusal to produce
books, papers, records and federal income tax returns, or the refusal to submit
to such examination by any employer or person subject, or presumed to be
subject, to the tax or by any officer, agent or employee of a person subject to
the tax or required to withhold tax, or the failure of any person to comply
with the provisions of this section or with an order or subpoena of the Tax
Commissioner authorized hereby shall be deemed a violation of this section and
punishable as provided in §
35.99.
   (D)   Retention of records by taxpayer.  Every taxpayer shall retain all
records necessary to compute his or her tax liability for a period of five
years from the date the return is filed or the taxes required to be withheld
are paid.
   (E)   Confidential nature of information.  Any information gained as a
result of any returns, investigations, hearings or verifications required or
authorized by this chapter shall be confidential and no disclosure thereof
shall be made except to municipal, county, state or federal taxing agencies,
or, except for official purposes as the Director of Law determines or except in
accordance with proper judicial order. Punishment for violation of this
provision is provided in §
35.99.
(1997 Code, § 35.36)  (Ord. 556-74, passed 12-9-1974)  Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.37  BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (A)   Composition.  A Board of Review consisting of three persons, appointed
by the Mayor, with the consent of Council, is hereby created. The individual
acting as the local administrator of the tax shall act as secretary of the
Board. Board members shall receive such compensation as Council may determine.
   (B)   Procedure.  A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a
quorum. The Board shall adopt its own procedural rules and shall keep a record
of its transactions. All hearings by the Board shall be conducted privately
unless the taxpayer requests a public hearing, and the provisions of §
35.36 hereof with reference to the confidential character of information
required to be disclosed by this chapter shall apply to such matters as may be
heard before the Board on appeal.
   (C)   Appeals.  Any person dissatisfied with any ruling or decision of the
Tax Commissioner which is made under the authority conferred by this chapter
including the Commissioner’s determination of taxes due the village may appeal
therefrom to the Board of Review within 30 days from the announcement of such
ruling or decision by the Tax Commissioner, and the Board shall, on hearing,
have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse or modify any such ruling or decision, or
any part thereof.
   (D)   Appeals procedure.  An appeal shall be perfected by notifying the
Village Board of Tax Review, in writing, at 389 Main Street, Batavia, Ohio
45103, postmarked or personally delivered to the village offices, no later than
30 days from the date of the Tax Commissioner’s determination and shall specify
the year or years being appealed. The Board of Review shall convene not later
than 45 days from the date the appeal is filed to hear evidence of the appeal.
The Board may continue any hearing, in progress, for the purpose of obtaining
evidence, however, the Board shall issue a decision within 30 days of the
conclusion of said hearing. Said decision can affirm, deny or modify the
decision or determination of the Tax Commissioner.
(1997 Code, § 35.37)  (Ord. 556-74, passed 12-9-1974; Ord. 1101-17, passed 3-5-
2007)
§ 35.38  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited acts.  No person shall:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Make an incomplete, false or fraudulent return;
      (3)   Fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties or interest
imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Fail, neglect or refuse to withhold the tax from his or her
employees and remit such withholding tax to the Tax Commissioner;
      (5)   Refuse to permit the Tax Commissioner or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her or his or her employer’s books, records,
papers and federal income tax returns;
      (6)   Fail to appear before the Tax Commissioner and to produce his or
her or his or her employer’s books, records, papers or federal income tax
returns upon order or subpoena of the Tax Commissioner;
      (7)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Commissioner any information with
respect to such person’s or such person’s employer’s income or net profits;
      (8)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Commissioner;
      (9)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any payment on the estimated tax
for any year as required by §
35.19;
      (10)   Fail, as president or treasurer of a corporation, to cause the tax
withheld from the wages of the employees of such corporation pursuant to this
chapter to be paid to the municipality in accordance with the provisions of §
35.18; or
      (11)   Attempt to do anything whatever to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.
   (B)   Failure to obtain forms no excuse.  The failure of any employer,
taxpayer or person to receive or procure a return, declaration or other
required form shall not excuse him or her from making any information return,
or declaration, from filing such form or from paying the tax.
   (C)   Responsibility of corporation employees.  The term PERSON as used in
this section shall, in addition to the meaning prescribed in §
35.02, include in the case of an association or corporation not having any
partner, member or officer within the municipality, any employee or agent of
such association or corporation who can be found within the corporate limits of
the municipality.
(1997 Code, § 35.38)  (Ord. 556-74, passed 12-9-1974)  Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be punished as provided in §
130.99.
   (B)   All civil and criminal prosecutions and claims for refund must be
commenced within the time specified by R.C. § 718.06.
   (C)   In addition, for violation of §
35.36(E), each disclosure of confidential information shall constitute a
separate offense. Any employee of the municipality who violates the provisions
of §
35.36(E) relative to the disclosure of confidential information shall be
immediately dismissed.
(1997 Code, § 35.99)
CHAPTER 36:  FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Cooperative purchasing
   
36.02   Village Administrator as purchasing agent
   
36.03   Village Administrator or Mayor to execute contracts, spend funds and
execute purchase orders
Funds
   
36.15   Drug Law Enforcement Fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01  COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   (A)   Council hereby requests authority in the name of the village to
participate in state contracts which the Department of Administrative Services,
Office of State Purchasing has entered into for the purchase of supplies,
services, equipment and certain materials pursuant to R.C. § 125.04.
   (B)   Council is hereby authorized to agree in the name of the village to be
bound by all contract terms and conditions as the Department of Administrative
Service, Office of State Purchasing prescribes. Such terms and conditions may
include a reasonable fee to cover the administrative costs which the Department
of Administrative Services incurs as a result of village participation in a
contract. Further, Council does hereby agree to be bound by all such terms and
conditions.
   (C)   Council is hereby authorized to agree in the name of the village to
directly pay the vendor under each such state contract in which it
participates, for items it receives pursuant to the contract, and that Council
does hereby agree to directly pay the vendor.
(1997 Code, § 36.01)  (Ord. 760-87, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 36.02  VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR AS PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   The Village Administrator is hereby designated as purchasing agent for
all village offices, departments, divisions, boards and commissions and shall
make all contracts, purchase supplies or materials and provide for any work of
the village, as provided by R.C. § 731.141.
   (B)   The Village Administrator is hereby authorized to promulgate written
rules and procedures to be followed by all village officers and employees
relative to the requisitioning of supplies, materials and work for their
respective offices, departments, divisions, boards or commissions. Such rules
and procedures shall not conflict with any of the provision of the ordinances
of the village or the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 997-02, passed 10-7-2002)
Cross-reference:
   Village Administrator, see §
31.04
§ 36.03  VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR OR MAYOR TO EXECUTE CONTRACTS, SPEND FUNDS AND
EXECUTE PURCHASE ORDERS.
   (A)   Commencing October 1, 2012, the village adopted and follows the
standards of the R.C. § 731.14, which states:
      731.14  Contracts by legislative authority of a village - exception.
      All contracts made by the legislative authority of a village shall be
executed in the name of the village and signed on its behalf by the mayor and
clerk. Except where the contract is for equipment, services, materials, or
supplies to be purchased under R.C. §§ 125.04, 713.23(D) or 5513.01, available
from a qualified nonprofit agency pursuant to R.C. §§ 4115.31 to  4115.35, or
required to be purchased from a qualified nonprofit agency under R.C. §§ 125.60
to 125.6012, when any expenditure, other than the compensation of persons
employed in the village, exceeds $50,000, such contracts shall be in writing
and made with the lowest and best bidder after advertising once a week for not
less than two consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village. The legislative authority may also cause notice to be inserted in
trade papers or other publications designated by it or to be distributed by
electronic means, including posting the notice on the legislative authority’s
internet web site. If the legislative authority posts the notice on its web
site, it may eliminate the second notice otherwise required to be published in
a newspaper of general circulation within the village, provided that the first
notice published in such newspaper meets all of the following requirements:
      (A)   It is published at least two weeks before the opening of bids.
      (B)   It includes a statement that the notice is posted on the
legislative authority’s internet web site.
      (C)   It includes the internet address of the legislative authority’s
internet web site.
      (D)   It includes instructions describing how the notice may be accessed
on the legislative authority’s internet web site.
   The bids shall be opened and shall be publicly read by the clerk of the
village or a person designated by the clerk at the time, date, and place
specified in the advertisement to bidders or specifications. The time, date,
and place of bid openings may be extended to a later date by the legislative
authority of the village, provided that written or oral notice of the change
shall be given to all persons who have received or requested specifications no
later than ninety-six hours prior to the original time and date fixed for the
opening. This section does not apply to those villages that have provided for
the appointment of a village administrator under R.C. § 735.271.
   (B)   Commencing October 1, 2012, the Village Administrator or Mayor shall
hereinafter be authorized to execute contracts, spend funds and execute
purchase orders on behalf of the village in an amount not to exceed the
statutory limits of the Ohio Revised Code, or $50,000.
(Ord. 1209-11, passed 2-7-2011; Ord. 1246-12, passed 8-6-2012; Ord. 1263-12,
passed 10-1-2012)
Cross-reference:
   Village Administrator, see §
31.04
FUNDS
§ 36.15  DRUG LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   The Village Council hereby establishes a Drug Law Enforcement Fund to
receive all fine monies provided to the Village Police Department by the Clerk
of the county municipal court.
(Ord. 1166-09, passed 6-1-2009)
CHAPTER 37:  VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
Registration of Felons
   
37.01   Felons required to report; information to be furnished
   
37.02   Photographing and fingerprinting required
   
37.03   Registrant leaving village
   
37.04   Failure to follow requirements
Records Retention
   
37.15   Adoption of schedule
   
37.16   Modifications
 
   
37.99   Penalty
REGISTRATION OF FELONS
§ 37.01  FELONS REQUIRED TO REPORT; INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED.
   (A)   Every person, who resides or intends to reside or engages in
employment within the village, who has been convicted one or more times in any
federal court or the court of this or any other state which conviction or term
of imprisonment has taken place in a preceding five-year period of time, of a
crime which is a felony under the laws of the United States government of
which, if committed in this or any other state would have been a felony under
the laws of the state, shall report as required in division (B) below.
   (B)   Every person described in division (A) above shall report to the
Police Department, within 48 hours after arrival within the boundaries of the
village. He or she shall furnish to the Police Department, in a written
statement signed by such person, the following information:
      (1)   The true name of such person and each other name or alias by which
such person is or has been known;
      (2)   A full and complete description of himself or herself; the name of
each crime defined in division (A) above of which he or she has been convicted,
together with the name of the place where such crime was committed, the name
under which he or she was convicted, the date of the conviction, and the name,
if any, and the location of each prison, reformatory or other penal institution
in which he or she has been confined as punishment therefor;
      (3)   The location or address of his or her residence or intended
residence, stopping place or living quarters in the village, and each one
thereof, if any, with a description of the character of such place, whether a
hotel, apartment house and a description of the address or location which will
so identify the same as to make it possible to locate;
      (4)   The length of time for which he or she expects or intends to reside
within the territory or boundaries of the village; and
      (5)   The occupation or employment in which such person is now engaged,
the name of the employer, the business engaged in by the employer, and the
nature and character thereof.
(1997 Code, § 37.01)  Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.02  PHOTOGRAPHING AND FINGERPRINTING REQUIRED.
   At the time of furnishing the information required by this chapter, such
person shall be photographed and fingerprinted by the Village Police Department
and such photograph and fingerprints shall be made a part of the permanent
records of the Police Department.
(1997 Code, § 37.02)
§ 37.03  REGISTRANT LEAVING VILLAGE.
   In the event any person required to register under the provisions of this
chapter intends to leave the village such person shall, before leaving the
village, report to the Police Department and, in a written and signed
statement, state the address of the place where such person expects to reside.
(1997 Code, § 37.03)  Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.04  FAILURE TO FOLLOW REQUIREMENTS.
   No person required by any provision of this chapter to furnish any report or
information shall fail, neglect or refuse to make such report, or furnish any
such information, photograph or fingerprints, or fail, neglect or refuse to
render or furnish the same within the time prescribed in this chapter, or fail,
neglect or refuse to furnish to the Police Department within such time, any
information, photograph or fingerprints required to be furnished by any
provision of this chapter, or furnish any false, untrue or misleading
information on or statement relating to any information required by any
provisions of this chapter to be made or furnished.
(1997 Code, § 37.04)  Penalty, see §
37.99
RECORDS RETENTION
§ 37.15  ADOPTION OF SCHEDULE.
   The Village Council adopts the records retention schedule as presented for
the village and its agencies.
(Ord. 1217-11, passed 5-2-2011)
Cross-reference:
   Records Commission, see §
32.02
§ 37.16  MODIFICATIONS.
   The village may approve modifications to records retention schedule from
time to time as it deems appropriate.
(Ord. 1217-11, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 37.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever knowingly violates any provisions of §§
37.01 through
37.04 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and shall be punished as
provided by §
130.99.
(1997 Code, § 37.99)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   WATER
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Extensions and connections outside the village
   
50.02   Connection charges
   
50.03   Payment prior to permit issuance
   
50.04   Tap-in fees to run with the land; no refunds
   
50.05   Delinquent payment; penalty and collection with other taxes
   
50.06   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.07   Application of partial utility bill payments; procedures for addressing
customer bankruptcy petitions
   
50.08   Water management and sediment control regulations
Village Policies
   
50.20   Adoption of rules and regulations of the county sewer district
   
50.21   Agreement for the operation and maintenance of the water, sewer and
trash billing services, wastewater treatment facilities and water distribution
and sewer collection systems
Statutory reference:
   Management and control of water, see R.C. § 735.29
   Management of sewerage system, see R.C. § 729.51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  EXTENSIONS AND CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE THE VILLAGE.
   Water and sewer extensions and connections may be made to premises outside
the corporate limits when permitted and subject to rules and regulations
adopted by the Village Administrator.
(1997 Code, § 50.01)
§ 50.02  CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Schedule 1: System Capacity Charges.
      (1)   User class; residential and public water supplier bulk sales
Residential
User Class Sewer Water
Residential
User Class                       Sewer  Water
Single-family residence          $2,100 $1,230
Multi-family residence
   One bedroom                $1,230 $770
   Two bedroom                $1,475 $930
   Three bedroom              $1,720 $1,110
Public water supplier bulk sales NA     $1.12/GPD
 
         (a)   To qualify for this user class, the entity must be a public
water supplier as defined by OEPA serving a customer base outside the service
area of the village.
         (b)   1.   Fees will be based on the capacity volume guaranteed to the
water supplier.
            2.   The actual volume purchased will be reviewed on an annual
basis to determine peak and average demand.
            3.   Should the seasonal average daily volume in any calendar year
exceed the guaranteed capacity by more than 10%, additional capacity fees shall
be assessed.
         (c)   Minimum billings will require payment of 80% of the purchased
capacity for the first five years, should actual demand fall below the 80%
threshold. After this five-year interval, the water will be billed based on
actual consumption. All water billed will be at the lowest rate in effect at
the time of usage.
         (d)   Capacity purchased under this class is based on availability and
is purely at the discretion of the Council of the village.
      (2)   User class; commercial, industrial, food service.  Industrial,
commercial and food service system capacity charges based on water meter size.
Commercial, Industrial, Food Service
Meter Size Sewer Water
Commercial, Industrial, Food Service
Meter Size                                   Sewer   Water
Food Service
   5/8 inch x 3/4 inch food service       $3,575  $1,850
   1 inch food service                    $8,040  $4,635
   1-1/2 inch food service                $15,430 $9,270
   2 inch food service                    $24,345 $14,830
   3 inch food service                    $48,075 $29,635
Industrial/Commercial
   5/8 inch x 3/4 inch industrial/commerci$2,945  $1,850
   1 inch industrial/commercial           $7,420  $4,635
   1-1/2 inch industrial/commercial       $14,805 $9,270
   2 inch industrial/commercial           $23,715 $14,830
   3 inch industrial/commercial           $47,440 $29,635
 
   (B)   Schedule 2: Water Meter and Installations Fees.  Full service setting
available up to two-inch, three-inch and larger require meter vault to be
constructed by private contractor.
Schedule 2: Water Meter and Installations Fees
Meter Size Full Service Installation Fee Meter Fee
Schedule 2: Water Meter and Installations Fees
Meter Size          Full Service Installation Fee Meter Fee
5/8 inch x 3/4 inch $630                          $50
1 inch              $665                          $95
1-1/2 inch          $1180                         $185
2 inch              $1,390                        $250
3 inch              N/A                           $1315
4 inch              N/A                           $1,805
6 inch              N/A                           $4,235
8 inch              N/A                           $3,560
 
   (C)   Schedule 3: Sewer Tap Fees.
 
Schedule 3: Sewer Tap Fees
Service                                  Fee
Commercial; industrial and food services $1,000
Residential                              $600
 
(1997 Code, § 50.02)  (Ord. 985-01, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 1013-03, passed 5-5-
2003)
§ 50.03  PAYMENT PRIOR TO PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The foregoing tap-in charges shall be paid by the applicant property owner
prior to the issuance of a tap-in permit by the Village Administrator for
connection to the sanitary sewerage system of the village.
(1997 Code, § 50.03)  (Ord. 511, passed 7-12-1971)
§ 50.04  TAP-IN FEES TO RUN WITH THE LAND; NO REFUNDS.
   (A)   All water and sewer tap-in fees hereafter collected in full payment of
the schedule of such fees shall run with the land for a period of five years
from the date issued, and shall pass to subsequent owners of the land for which
the fee was paid, and the tap-in may be made within the five-year period. If no
tap-in is made within that period, a new tap-in fee must be paid in accordance
with the schedule in force at the time that the new application for a tap-in is
made.
   (B)   All water and sewer tap-in fees collected in full payment of the
schedule of such fees prior to the effective date of this section shall run
with the land and shall pass to subsequent owners of the land for which the fee
was paid, and the tap-ins may be made at any time, for the reason that Council
believes that Ohio Constitution Art. II, § 28 prohibits the passing of
retroactive laws.
   (C)   There being no provision in any previous ordinance permitting refund
of tap-in fees paid for, but not used by the applicant, it is now hereby
ordained that no such refund shall be made.
(1997 Code, § 50.04)  (Ord. 726-84, passed 7-9-1984)
§ 50.05  DELINQUENT PAYMENT; PENALTY AND COLLECTION WITH OTHER TAXES.
   (A)   The bill for any services rendered by the waterworks system or the
sewerage system shall be paid by the fifteenth day of each month and if not so
paid a 6% late fee shall be added to such bill and if not paid with penalty as
provided in §
50.06, such water services shall be cutoff as provided in §
50.06 and services shall be resumed only upon compliance with §
50.06. If such bill remains unpaid for a period of 60 days, it shall be
certified over to the County Auditor and collected at the same time and in the
same manner as all other taxes as provided by law. When the fifteenth of the
month, which is the last day for payment of the water, sewer and waste
collection bills, falls on a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, the payment is due
by the close of the next working day.
   (B)   A $15 fee will be charged on returned checks.  The county policy is
hereby by adopted.
(1997 Code, § 50.05)  (Ord. 783-89, passed 3-13-1989; Ord. 846-92, passed 10-
26-1992; Ord. 883-95, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 50.06  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The village’s form for application
for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title,
address, room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing,
clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the
village official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be
authorized to order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall
have the authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   The Mayor or Village Administrator may waive charges for good cause,
which the official shall document. In the absence of payment of the bill
rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided herein, service will be
discontinued at the time specified, but in no event until the charges have been
due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge as established by §
53.02.
(1997 Code, § 50.06)
§ 50.07  APPLICATION OF PARTIAL UTILITY BILL PAYMENTS; PROCEDURES FOR
ADDRESSING CUSTOMER BANKRUPTCY PETITIONS.
   (A)   The Village Fiscal Officer is directed to apply utility payments
received from an individual, commercial or industrial user (customer) as
follows:
      (1)   First to payment of the garbage or trash charges for the immediate
month;
      (2)   Second to the payment of the sewer charges for the immediate month;
      (3)   Third to the payment of the water charges for the immediate month;
and
      (4)   Fourth to any other charges appearing on the account billing.
      (5)   Fifth to any NSF or late charges accrued on the account;
   (B)   In the event that the village shall receive a notice that a user
(customer) has filed a bankruptcy petition, the Village Administrator shall
immediately calculate the utility charges for said user to the date of the
bankruptcy petition and shall create a new account for future service to said
user. The user shall be required to place a deposit on the new account as
provided for in the Administrative Code. Services provided to the new account
shall be governed by the standard procedures in the Village Administrative
Code.
(Ord. 1073-06, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 50.08  WATER MANAGEMENT AND SEDIMENT CONTROL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Water Management and Sediment Control Regulations, copies of which
are on file in the village offices, is adopted and incorporated as part of this
code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   The Administrator of the village is hereby authorized to enter into
the agreement regarding administration and enforcement of the Village Water
Management and Sediment Control Regulations with the county.
(Ord. 1116-07, passed 9-4-2007)
VILLAGE POLICIES
§ 50.20  ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE COUNTY SEWER DISTRICT.
   (A)   The village adopts the rules and regulations governing the design,
construction and use of the water distribution and wastewater collection
systems for the county sewer district as binding upon the village.
   (B)   The village accepts modifications to the cited rules and regulations
as they take effect under the jurisdiction of the County Board of
Commissioners.
   (C)   This section shall amend Chapters 52 and 53 and shall prevail in any
instance of conflict between existing regulations and the regulations hereby
authorized.
(Ord. 1218-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 50.21  AGREEMENT FOR THE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE WATER, SEWER AND
TRASH BILLING SERVICES, WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES AND WATER DISTRIBUTION
AND SEWER COLLECTION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The village owns and is responsible for the operation and maintenance
of the water, sewer and trash billing services, wastewater treatment facilities
and water distribution and sewer collection systems (collectively, “the
utilities”).
   (B)   The village desires to have the utilities operated and maintained in
the most efficient manner possible, while complying with all federal, state and
local laws, rules and regulations.
   (C)   The efficient operations and maintenance of the utilities requires
unique and specialized professional skills together with experience in new
technologies and engineering expertise.
   (D)   The village desires to maintain ownership of the utilities and to
contract for operation and maintenance of the utilities with the county which
has the specialized professional skills and expertise to operate the utilities
in the most efficient manner possible.
   (E)   The village has determined that by contracting with the county for
operation and maintenance, data can be collected to develop a comprehensive
analysis and condition assessment of the sewer collection system; so the
village and the county have entered into an agreement setting forth their
respective rights, duties, privileges and responsibilities.
   (F)   The agreement for the operation and maintenance of the village’s
water, sewer and trash billing services, wastewater treatment facilities and
water distribution and sewer collection systems, copies of which are on file in
the village offices, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 1223-11, passed 8-1-2011)
CHAPTER 51:  SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Collection by contractor or licensee; fee and term
   
51.02   Collection charges and billing
   
51.03   Waste collection regulations
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Collection and disposal of garbage, see R.C. § 717.01
§ 51.01  COLLECTION BY CONTRACTOR OR LICENSEE; FEE AND TERM.
   (A)   No person, other than the duly authorized collector with whom the
village has a contract, shall collect, remove, convey or transport any garbage,
trash or other refuse, by any means over or upon any street without first
obtaining a license therefor.
   (B)   The license shall be issued by the Mayor for a fee of $10 and shall
remain in effect for a period of one year from the date of issuance. Such
license shall be issued to additional collectors only on the basis of village
need and whether additional collectors are needed shall be determined by
Council.
(1997 Code, § 51.01)  (Ord. 436, passed 1-11-1965)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02  COLLECTION CHARGES AND BILLING.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   The solid waste collection charge shall be assessed
against all residential users and all commercial and institutional users except
those who exceed the limitations designated in §
51.03(D). This charge shall be:
 
$14.16 per month On and after January 1, 2009
 
         (b)   All owners of property having additional family or business
units living or operating therein (operating upon the same premises’ address)
shall be charged an additional collection charge per household(s) and/or
business unit(s). The titled owner(s) of the premises shall be responsible for
payment of these charges.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (A)(2), BRUSH is defined as any
part of a bush or tree. The village shall charge the owner of property from
which brush is picked up $75 per hour, to be billed in ten-minute increments,
with the first half hour free of charge.
   (B)   The amounts set forth herein shall be billed by the Fiscal Officer as
additional charges along with the water and sewer bill which is sent monthly,
and shall be payable by the fifteenth day of the month. When the fifteenth of
the month, the last day for payment of the water, sewer and waste collection
bills falls on a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, the payment is due at the close
of the next working day.
   (C)   This section shall continue in effect only as long as the village has
a contract with a private entity for the collection of garbage or other refuse
and shall terminate when such contract is no longer in existence.
(1997 Code, § 51.02)  (Ord. 617-79, passed 2-12-1979; Ord. 662-81, passed 1-12-
1981; Ord. 697-82, passed 9-13-1982; Ord. 821-91, passed 2-11-1991; Ord. 851-
92, passed 1-11-1993; Ord. 892-95, passed 5-8-1995; Ord. 924-97, passed 4-14-
1997; Ord. 983-01, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 1051-05, passed 2-7-2005; Ord. 1084-
06, passed 6-5-2006; Ord. 1124-07, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 51.03  WASTE COLLECTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Contracted hauler or waste collection service is required to make one
weekly pick up of all residences and businesses.
   (B)   Wednesday shall be the day for waste collection in the village,
commencing at 7:00 a.m. No property owner, resident, occupant, or other person
shall place trash for collection prior to 3:00 p.m. on the day preceding
collection nor leave waste receptacles at the curb, road shoulder, or other
places of collection that is in plain view of the street later than 10:00 a.m.
the day following collection.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of all occupants of every dwelling house or other
building in the village to provide a suitable and water-tight metallic or
plastic container with a lid of convenient size. There shall be no limit on the
number of containers used by any residential customer. Containers shall be
placed at a point readily accessible to the collector, which may be the curb
line wherever practicable and not inconsistent with the use to which premises
are put. Collectors shall remove the entire contents of such vessels, replace
the lids thereon and maintain the area after collection.
   (D)   Commercial establishments and dwellings of more than one family unit
shall be limited to a maximum of six 30-gallon containers or one four-cubic
yard dumpster-type container. Should these occupants or owners desire more
collection than this, they may contract with any garbage or trash service
licensed to operate in the village.
   (E)   A monthly charge on each water bill is assessed to cover costs for
pick up point.
   (F)   Collection will be maintained on all holidays except Christmas and New
Year’s Day. On these holidays pick up will be made the following day.
   (G)   Waste shall be deposited for collection at curbs or near edges of
streets in cans or containers suitably covered to prevent littering.
(1997 Code, § 51.03)  (Ord. 408, passed 1-16-1962; Ord. 617-79, passed 2-12-
1979; Ord. 777-88, passed 11-28-1988; Ord. 977-00, passed 12-11-2000; Ord.
1273-13, passed 6-3-2013)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$500, imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
(1997 Code, § 51.99)  (Ord. 436, passed 1-11-1965)
CHAPTER 52:  SEWERS
Section
Sanitary Sewers
   
52.01   Connection only by licensed persons; connection applications
   
52.02   Discharge of wastes regulated
   
52.03   Sewer construction
   
52.04   Regulations and records
   
52.05   Connections required if public sewer available
   
52.06   Sanitary sewer rates
Storm Sewers
   
52.20   Connection application and fee
   
52.21   Clean water discharge acceptable; wastes prohibited
   
52.22   Inspection prior to covering work
   
52.23   Regulations and records
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Connection and tap-in charges, see §§
50.02 through
50.04
   Late payment; disconnection, see §§
50.05 through
50.06
Statutory reference:
   Compulsory sewer connections, see R.C. § 729.06
   Interference with sewage flow, see R.C. § 4933.24
SANITARY SEWERS
§ 52.01  CONNECTION ONLY BY LICENSED PERSONS; CONNECTION APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   No house sewer shall be constructed or connection made to a public
sewer by any person who has not been authorized and licensed to perform such
work.
   (B)   No house sewer shall be constructed to connect with a public sewer nor
shall any connection be made to a public sewer within the village until the
written permission of the Village Administrator or his/her agent has been
obtained by the person employed to perform the work. An application for a
permit shall be signed by the owner, agent or lessee of the property for which
the connection is to be made and by the person employed to perform the work,
shall describe the property and state the fixtures to be connected and shall be
accompanied by the required fee.
(1997 Code, § 52.01)  (Ord. 341, passed 6-1-1954)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02  DISCHARGE OF WASTES REGULATED.
   (A)   Generally.  The written permission to construct a house sewer or to
make a connection to a public sewer shall specify the permissible use of such
house sewer and connection and such specifications shall be governed by the
following requirements.
      (1)   Sewage, including wastes from water closets, urinals, lavatories,
sinks, bath tubs, laundries, cellar floor drains, bars, soda fountains,
cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains, stable floor drains and
other objectionable wastes shall be discharged into a sanitary or combined
sewer but in no case into a storm sewer.
      (2)   Industrial waste shall not be discharged into a storm water sewer
but may be discharged into a sanitary sewer if the waste is of such character
as not to be detrimental to the sewer system or to the sewage treatment works.
      (3)   Where such waste is detrimental to the sewer system or sewage
treatment works it shall be otherwise disposed of in a satisfactory manner or
so improved in character as not to be detrimental to the sewer system or sewage
treatment works.
      (4)   Surface water, rain water from roofs, subsoil drainage, building
foundation drainage, cistern overflow, clean water from condensers, waste water
from water motors and elevators, and any other clean and unobjectionable waste
water shall be discharged into a storm water but in no case into a sanitary
sewer.
      (5)   Connection with a cesspool or a privy vault shall not be made into
a sanitary or storm water sewer.
      (6)   A trap for the interception of grease and oil shall be provided on
a connection from a hotel restaurant, club or institutional kitchen and from a
public garage or motor vehicle washing station. Such trap shall be satisfactory
to the Village Administrator. No person shall discharge into a house sewer or
tap a house sewer for the purpose of discharging into it any waste or drainage
water prohibited by the provisions of this section. Any existing connection in
violation of the provisions of this section shall be abandoned and removed.
   (B)   Action when discharged substances have a deleterious effect.  If any
substances discharged or proposed to be discharged into a Public Owned
Treatment Works under the control of the village, where such substances may, in
the judgment of the Village Administrator, have a deleterious effect upon the
POTW, treatment processes or receiving waters, including violation of
applicable water quality standards, or which otherwise may create a hazard to
health, safety, welfare or the environment, or increase the cost of operating
the POTW, the Village Administrator may:
      (1)   Require immediate cessation of the discharge;
      (2)   Revoke or suspend the administrative order authorizing the
discharge;
      (3)   Require pretreatment or additional pretreatment;
      (4)   Limit the quantities and/or rates of discharge; and/or
      (5)   Require payment for the added cost of handling and treating the
substances.
   (C)   Industrial discharges.  All industrial wastes discharged to the POTW
shall, at a minimum, meet the most stringent requirements of applicable
national categorical pretreatment standards, or best practical control
technology currently available for incompatible pollutants, as prescribed in
the Code of Federal Regulations.
   (D)   Discharge prohibitions.  No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged, directly or indirectly, any of the following substances or classes
of substances into the POTW:
      (1)   Any storm water, roof runoff, surface water, ground water or other
subsurface drainage or non-contact cooling water;
      (2)   Any substance which may create a fire or explosion hazard in the
POTW, including but not limited to substances with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F or 60°C using the test method specified in 40 C.F.R. Part
261.21. Prohibited materials include but are not limited to gasoline, kerosene,
naphtha, benzene, fuel oil, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones,
aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and
sulfides;
      (3)   Any solid or viscous substance in quantities or of a size that may
cause obstruction to the flow in a sewer or interference or pass through the
POTW including, but not limited to: medical wastes, grease, animal guts or
tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, spent lime, stone or marble dust, wood,
metal, glass, plastics, shavings, straw, grass clippings, rags, spent grains,
waste paper, paper products, gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from the
refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, or lens grinding or
polishing wastes;
      (4)   Any garbage, unless originating from residences used for
noncommercial purposes, which has not been shredded such that no particle is
greater than one-half inch in any dimension. Garbage grinders shall not be
connected to the POTW from hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals,
groceries, catering establishments or similar places where garbage originates
from the commercial or large-scale preparation of food for the purpose of sale,
consumption on the premises, or for service by caterers;
      (5)   Any petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oils, products of
mineral oil origin, or floatable oils, fat, wax or grease, that pass through
the POTW or cause interference. In no event shall the total concentration of
such substances exceed 250 mg/l;
      (6)   Any substance having a pH less than 5.0 or greater than 10.0, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment or personnel of the POTW. The Village Administrator may
impose more stringent pH limits on any user where he or she determines that
such limits are necessary to avoid an adverse impact on the POTW, treatment
processes, sludge disposal methods or violation of NPDES permits;
      (7)   Any substance that either singly or by interaction with other
substances, may create a public nuisance, a hazard to human life or health, or
prevent or interfere with entry into the sewerage system for maintenance and
repair;
      (8)   Any substance that may cause a treatment plant effluent or any
other product of the treatment plant, such as residues, sludges or scums, to be
unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation
process;
      (9)   Any substance that may cause a treatment plant to violate any
applicable sludge use or disposal statute, regulation, guideline or criterion;
      (10)   Any substance which may cause a treatment plant to violate its
NPDES permit or cause a violation of water quality standards;
      (11)   Any substance, the color of which is not completely removed in the
treatment process, including but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      (12)   Any substance the temperature of which may inhibit biological
activity in a treatment plant or interfere with wastewater treatment process
efficiency. At no time shall any discharge into the POTW exceed 120°F (49°C) or
cause the wastewater at a treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (13)   Any substance, including oxygen demanding materials (BOD and COD),
at a rate and/or concentration that may cause interference or pass through at a
treatment plant. No discharge shall have a flow rate or contain concentrations
or quantities of pollutants that exceed, for any period of time longer than 60
minutes, during any 24-hour period, more than five times the permitted average
24-hour concentration, quantity or flow representative or normal operations;
      (14)   Any radioactive substance whose half-life or concentration exceeds
limits established or prescribed by applicable federal or state requirement;
      (15)   Any substance that, either singly or by interaction with other
substances, may injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process,
constitute a hazard to the life or health of humans or animals, create a public
nuisance, may be toxic to any organism in the receiving water of a treatment
plant or exceeds any limitation set forth in a pretreatment standard; and
      (16)   Any substance that may result in gases, vapors or fumes within the
POTW that may endanger the health, safety or welfare of village employees.
   (E)   Evaluation and review.  Before any application to use the sewer system
is approved, a review of the proposed installation shall be reviewed by the
Village Administrator to determine if the discharge is compatible with both the
capacity and the capability for treatment of the proposed discharge.
   (F)   Monitoring manholes.  If the discharge requires periodic sampling to
assure allowable discharge, a monitoring manhole must be installed between the
building sewer and the public sewer. Such manhole must be available for
sampling without prior notice.
   (G)   System capacity.  In no case will a new user or increased release into
the system from a present user be permitted that is in excess of the capacity
of the system. This capacity is determined not only by the capacity of the
final plant destination and discharge permit, but also the capacity of the
piping within the system, lift stations, surge tanks or any other component of
the system.
   (H)   Flow meters.  If for any reason the system has the capability of
discharging an amount of effluent into the system that could be in excess of
the domestic water meter reading, the system will be required to have a flow
meter installed between the building sewer and the public system.
   (I)   Sampling and testing.  Sampling and testing of discharges into the
public system shall be made by the Sewer Department any time there is a reason
to believe the approved discharge has changed. If found to vary from the
original approval, appropriate action shall be taken to bring the discharge
into compliance.
(1997 Code, § 52.02)  (Ord. 341, passed 6-1-1954; Ord. 1021-03, passed 11-3-
2003)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03  SEWER CONSTRUCTION.
   The house sewer and connection to a public sewer shall be constructed in
accordance with regulations adopted by the Village Administrator and which are
in force and effect at the time application is made.
(1997 Code, § 52.03)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04  REGULATIONS AND RECORDS.
   The Village Administrator is authorized and directed to adopt and enforce
specifications and regulations in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter for the purpose of providing control of the installation of sewer
connections and inspection thereof. The Board shall maintain accurate and
complete records of all permits issued for and inspections made of the
construction of house sewers and connections to the public sewers, and shall
also require the abandonment and removal of connections to public sewers which
violate the provisions of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 52.04)  (Ord. 341, passed 6-1-1954)
§ 52.05  CONNECTIONS REQUIRED IF PUBLIC SEWER AVAILABLE.
   (A)   No owner, agent, lessee, tenant or occupant of any lot or land located
within the village shall establish, construct, maintain or permit to remain a
privy, cesspool or other receptacle for sewage, or a connection to a private
sewer, ditch or other outlet, if such lot or land is accessible to a public
sewer, constructed and used for the purpose of conveying sewage, and if a
public water main or other water supply satisfactory to permit use of plumbing
is available. When such public sewer and water main or other water supply are
available or are hereafter made available, a connection to such public sewer
shall be established and used by such owner, agent, lessee, tenant or occupant.
   (B)   A sewer is accessible when it is within 300 feet of the structure to
be served and the property upon which the structure is located abuts the public
right-of-way upon which the sewer is located, and if the elevation of the
structure permits a gravity service sewer to be constructed to the point of
entrance to the public sewer.
(1997 Code, § 52.05)  (Ord. 340, passed 6-1-1954)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06  SANITARY SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Established.
      (1)   Rates shall be charged by the village for the service rendered by
its sanitary sewerage system and sewage disposal plant to its residents and
other users thereof, based upon the amount of water used as shown by the water
meter and to be billed to and paid by the users contemporaneously with water
bills, the payment of one bill not to be accepted without payment of both:
         (a)   The rate for rental and for all water consumed over 100 cubic
feet per monthly billing period; and
         (b)   Public buildings and schools may have special rates established
by the Village Administrator, which rates shall be fair and equitable but which
need not be the same as those established for domestic or individual users.
      (2)   The charges are minimum charges not maximum charges and the village
reserves the right and is obligated to increase the same at any time should the
revenues of the system prove insufficient to pay the operating and maintenance
expenses and the debt charges as may be established by the village. It is
covenanted that the rates herein established will not be decreased until such
bonds have been paid in full or provision made therefor.
   (B)   Connections and charge if public sewer available.  All buildings,
including both commercial and residential properties, which have the services
of the sewerage system available thereto by means of main or lateral sewers,
shall, as soon as practicable, make the necessary connections with the system,
and all outside toilets are hereby declared to be unsanitary and dangerous to
public health and therefore a nuisance. Until connections are made, each
property within the village served by the system shall pay the minimum monthly
charge per month.
   (C)   Liability for services.  The owner of private property which is served
by the sewerage system by pipes connected with the system to convey sewerage,
as well as the lessee of the premises, shall be liable to the village for all
services of the system rendered to the premises.
   (D)   Regulations and rates.  The regulations and rates, copies of which are
on file in the village office, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code
of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(1997 Code, § 52.06)  (Ord. 347, passed 7-6-1954; Ord. 355, passed 3-1-1955;
Ord. 610-78, passed 7-10-1978; Ord. 788-89, passed 5-24-1989; Ord. 893-95,
passed 6-26-1995; Ord. 947-98, passed 11-9-1998; Ord. 957-99, passed 6-14-1999;
Ord. 1204-11, passed 3-7-2011; Ord. 1239-12, passed 3-5-2012; Ord. 1281-13,
passed 10-7-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Rates established, see §
53.01
STORM SEWERS
§ 52.20  CONNECTION APPLICATION AND FEE.
   No house sewer or drain shall be constructed to connect with a public storm
sewer nor shall any connection be made to a public storm sewer within the
village until the written permission of the Village Administrator has been
obtained by the person proposing to or employed to perform the work. An
application for a permit shall be signed by the owner, lessee or agent of the
property for which the connection is desired and by the person employed to
perform the work, shall describe the property and state the purpose for which
the connection is desired, and shall be accompanied by a fee of $5.
(1997 Code, § 52.20)  (Ord. 342, passed 6-1-1954)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21  CLEAN WATER DISCHARGE ACCEPTABLE; WASTES PROHIBITED.
   The written permission to construct a house sewer or drain connecting with a
public storm sewer shall specify the permissible use of such house sewer or
drain and such specifications shall be governed by the following requirements.
The house sewer or drain may be used for removal of surface water, rain water
from roofs, subsoil drainage, building foundation drainage, cistern overflow,
clear water from condenser, waste water from water motors and elevators and any
other clean and unobjectionable waste water. Such house sewer or drain shall
not receive sewage, floor drainage, industrial wastes, septic tank overflow,
privy vault drainage, kitchen wastes or any other liquid wastes of
objectionable character.
(1997 Code, § 52.21)  (Ord. 342, passed 6-1-1954)
§ 52.22  INSPECTION PRIOR TO COVERING WORK.
   After a house sewer or drain to connect with a public storm sewer is laid
and before it is covered or used, it shall be inspected and approved by the
Village Administrator or his or her authorized agent.
(1997 Code, § 52.22)  (Ord. 342, passed 6-1-1954)
§ 52.23  REGULATIONS AND RECORDS.
   The Village Administrator is authorized and directed to adopt and enforce
specifications and regulations in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter for the purpose of providing control of the installation of sewer
connections and the inspection thereof. The Village Administrator shall
maintain accurate and complete records of all permits issued and inspections
made. The Village Administrator is hereby empowered to require the abandonment
and removal of connections to the public storm sewers which violate the
provisions of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 52.23)  (Ord. 342, passed 6-1-1954)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
52.01 through
52.06 shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A separate offense
shall be deemed to have been committed each period of 24 hours.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provisions of §§
52.20 through
52.23 shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense. A separate offense
shall be deemed to have been committed each 24 hours such violation continues
after a period of 30 days following the original conviction.
(1997 Code, § 52.99)  (Ord. 342, passed 6-1-1954; Ord. 481, passed 12-9-1968)
CHAPTER 53:  WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Rates established
   
53.02   Connection and reconnection charges
   
53.03   Liability for charges
   
53.04   Cross-connection control
Water Conservation Plan
   
53.20   Generally
   
53.21   Phase I Normal
   
53.22   Phase II Alert
   
53.23   Phase III Conservation
   
53.24   Phase IV Emergency
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01  RATES ESTABLISHED.
   The rates and charges for the supplying of water services by the village
waterworks system to its inhabitants and other uses shall be established by the
Village Council or Village Administrator.
(1997 Code, § 53.01)  (Ord. 979-01, passed 5-14-2001; Ord. 1204-11, passed 3-7-
2011; Ord. 1239-12, passed 3-5-2012; Ord. 1281-13, passed 10-7-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Sanitary sewer rates, see §
52.06
§ 53.02  CONNECTION AND RECONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   A water connection charge shall be as provided in §
52.06.
   (B)   Where a water service is disconnected, water service will not again be
restored to such water service branch until all previous amounts due and unpaid
have been paid in full, including a reconnection fee of $25.
(1997 Code, § 53.02)  (Ord. 620-79, passed 4-9-1979; Ord. 846-92, passed 10-26-
1992; Ord. 893-95, passed 6-26-1995)
§ 53.03  LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.
   The owner of private property which is served by the waterworks system by
pipes connected with such system to convey water thereto, shall, as well as the
lessee of the premises, be liable to the village for all water from the system
used upon such premises.
(1997 Code, § 53.03)  (Ord. 458, passed 2-13-1967)
§ 53.04  CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   If, in the finding of the Village Administrator or Water
Superintendent, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water system, the Village Administrator or Water
Superintendent will give notice to the water consumer to install such an
approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his or her own
expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner approved
by the Village Administrator or Water Superintendent and shall have inspections
and tests made of such approved devices as required by the Village
Administrator or Water Superintendent.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the village may enter the supply or distributing system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Village Administrator or Water Superintendent of the village and by the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Village Administrator or Water
Superintendent to cause surveys and investigations to be made of industrial and
other properties served by the public water supply where actual or potential
hazards to the public supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall
be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated as often as the Village
Administrator or Water Superintendent shall deem necessary.
   (D)   The Village Administrator or Water Superintendent of the village or
his, her or its duly authorized representative shall have the right to enter at
any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of inspecting the
piping system or systems thereof. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of
any property so served shall furnish to the Village Administrator or Water
Superintendent any information which he, she or it may request regarding the
piping system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall within the discretion of the Village
Administrator or Water Superintendent be deemed evidence of the presence of
improper connections as provided in this section.
   (E)   The Village Administrator or Water Superintendent of the village is
hereby authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the
occupant thereof, the water service to any property wherein any connection in
violation of the provisions of this section is known to exist, and to take such
other precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any
danger of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water
service to such property shall not be restored until such conditions shall have
been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this section.
(1997 Code, § 53.05)  (Ord. 792-89, passed 7-10-1989; Ord. 1167-09, passed 5-
18-2009)  Penalty, see §
53.99
WATER CONSERVATION PLAN
§ 53.20  GENERALLY.
   The potential exists for the village, due to either a drought situation or a
major equipment failure, to experience a water emergency. Consequently, the
following restrictions are necessary to protect the village’s ability to supply
water to the citizens of the village. The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
is requiring water suppliers to adopt a system of water conservation measures
to cover such potential problems. This plan consists of four levels or phases.
The last two phases of the plan require mandatory conservation measures for the
village’s water customers.
(Ord. 1009-03, passed 4-7-2003)
§ 53.21  PHASE I NORMAL.
   Water supplies are adequate and climatological conditions are normal.
(Ord. 1009-03, passed 4-7-2003)
§ 53.22  PHASE II ALERT.
   (A)   Climatological data indicates above normal temperatures and below
normal precipitation for an extended period. Streamflow, reservoir levels and/
or groundwater levels are below normal over an extended period of time.
Implement system-wide voluntary water conservation measures, and establish a
use reduction goal of 10%.
   (B)   Customer action:
      (1)   Voluntary reduction of lawn watering on odd- and even-numbered days
according to resident’s house number; and
      (2)   Watering restricted to 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. or 7:00 p.m. to 10:00
p.m.
(Ord. 1009-03, passed 4-7-2003)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.23  PHASE III CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Climatological conditions worsen and water levels continue to decline.
Water conservation measures are increased. Implement system-wide mandatory
water conservation measures, and establish a use reduction goal of 20%.
   (B)   Customer action:
      (1)   Mandatory reduction of lawn watering on odd- and even-numbered days
according to resident’s house number;
      (2)   Watering restricted to 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. or 7:00 p.m. to 10:00
p.m.; and
      (3)   Restrict all unnecessary usage as deemed appropriate.
(Ord. 1009-03, passed 4-7-2003)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.24  PHASE IV EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Climatological conditions continues to worsen and water levels
continue to diminish. Conservation measures have to be more stringent to ensure
adequate water supply for health and sanitary purposes. Implement system-wide
mandatory water conservation measures, and establish a use reduction goal of
30%.
   (B)   Customer action:
      (1)   Mandatory prohibition of lawn watering;
      (2)   Washing of autos, trucks and recreational vehicles shall be
recommended only in commercial wash centers that are equipped with recycling
facilities;
      (3)   Use of water for the filling of swimming pools is prohibited;
      (4)   Hose spraying of driveways, sidewalks and parking areas is
prohibited; and
      (5)   Restrict all other unnecessary usage as deemed appropriate.
(Ord. 1009-03, passed 4-7-2003)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Failure to comply with §§
53.20 through
53.24 shall be punishable by a minor misdemeanor with a penalty of up to $100
per day or per occurrence.
(Ord. 1009-03, passed 4-7-2003)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
      
75.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, SNOWMOBILES AND ALL PURPOSE VEHICLES
      
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.03   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.04   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.05   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.06   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow-moving vehicles on freeways
   
70.07   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.08   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.09   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersections
   
70.10   Through highways
   
70.11   Officer may remove ignition key
   
70.12   Removal of vehicles after accidents
   
70.13   Traffic direction in emergencies; obedience
   
70.14   Parades and assemblages
   
70.15   Toy vehicles on streets
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.30   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Signal lights
   
70.32   Ambiguous or non-working traffic signals
   
70.33   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.34   Unauthorized signs and signals prohibited
   
70.35   Alteration, defacement or removal prohibited
   
70.36   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.37   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
   
70.38   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices
   
70.39   Authority to regulate local traffic
   
70.40   Conformity with state manual
   
70.41   Permit required for traffic signal on state route
   
70.42   Violations subject to misdemeanor classification
Snow Emergencies
   
70.55   Declaration of snow emergencies
   
70.56   Classifications of snow emergencies
   
70.57   Violations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, general regulations, see
Chapter 97
   Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, see §
131.09
   Unclaimed and abandoned motor vehicles, see
Chapter 98
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see R.C. § 4511.07
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see R.C. § 4511.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this Title,
Chapter 95 and the penal laws of the municipality. For the purpose of this
Title and
Chapter 95, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR.  Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY.  A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side
of lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
ALLEY by the legislative authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET.  Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON.  A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE.  Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS.  Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire or funeral car, other
than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement, designed and
used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.  The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE.  A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. PREARRANGED CONTRACT means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in a CHAUFFEURED
LIMOUSINE at a fixed rate per hour or trip. The term does not include any
vehicle that is used exclusively in the business of funeral directing.
(R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
   CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER.  Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR.  Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or
used for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.  Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface; and
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a CROSSWALK where the legislative authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   DRIVER.  Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE.  Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES.  Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended
for the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
EXPLOSIVES when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY.  A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID.  Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY.  A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse,
while used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT.  The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to
the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL.  A power-operated traffic-control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON.  A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic-control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic-control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate INTERSECTION. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic-control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate INTERSECTIONS as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one INTERSECTION.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line or crosswalk line is designated on
the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and any
area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
INTERSECTION.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the INTERSECTION includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY.  A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES.  Every county, municipal and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   MEDIAN.  The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a MEDIAN may be different between intersections, between interchanges
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels, power cranes and other
equipment used in construction work, and not designed for or employed in
general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery, well-drilling
machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery and trailers designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 mph or less.
   MOTORCYCLE.  Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including but not limited to motor
vehicles known as MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE, MOTOR SCOOTER,CAB- ENCLOSED MOTORCYCLE, 
or MOTORCYCLE without regard to weight or brake horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE or MOPED.  Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled, and
that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters
piston displacement  that produces no more than one brake horsepower, and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater than 20 mph on a
level surface.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR.  Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
mph.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR.  A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   OPERATE.  To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   OPERATOR.  Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   PARKED or PARKING.  The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN.  Any natural person afoot.
   PERSON.  Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or
corporation.
   POLE TRAILER.  Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle
by means of a reach, pole or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER.  Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.214, 4511.22,
4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31,
4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39,
4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441,
4511.451, 4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50,
4511.511, 4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771,
4511.78 or 4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D) or
4511.74(A); or
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2) or (3) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL.  A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.  Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer Fire Department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by Fire Departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the Fire
Department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a public safety vehicle, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital; or
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD.  A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL.  Any sign, signal or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN.  A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT.  The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT.  Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes arrangements known as carpools, vanpools and
buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path; or
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, RIGHT-OF- WAY includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE.  Means wreckers, utility repair vehicles and state,
county and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY.  That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term means any roadway separately, but not all the
roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE.  Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE.  The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for
the exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by
adequate signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS.  Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child day-care
center or type A family day-care home to transport children from the child day-
care center or type a family day-care home to a school if the van or bus does
not have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER.  Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or
property with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of
its own weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by
another vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH.  A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically
separated from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and
either within the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A
SHARED-USE PATH also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers,
users of manual and motorized wheelchairs and other authorized motorized and
non- motorized users.
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING.  When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even
momentarily, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device.
   STATE HIGHWAY.  A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE.  Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP.  When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION.  Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device.
   STREET.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to
the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY.  Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THROUGHWAY or THRUWAY.  A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved
for through traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE.  A flagger, sign, signal, marking or other device
used to regulate, warn or guide traffic, placed on, over or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL.  Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER.  Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 mph and a vehicle
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more than 25
mph.
   TRUCK.  Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME.  Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. §
5104.01.
   URBAN DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE.  Every device, including a motorized bicycle, in, upon or by which
any person or property may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except that
the term does not include any motorized wheelchair, any electric personal
assistive mobility device, any device that is moved by power collected from
overhead electric trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary
rails or tracks, or any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human
power.
(R.C. § 4511.01)
§ 70.02  COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property; or
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit; and
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit or privilege
required by this division (D).
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F))
Cross-reference:
   Resisting arrest, see §
136.08
§ 70.03  EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.03)
§ 70.04  EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this Traffic Code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.02, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while
actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, and 4513.02 and R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66
or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt the driver of a vehicle that is
engaged in the transport of highway maintenance equipment from criminal
liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
   (D)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681 and 4511.69 and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38 and
4511.66 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances do not apply to a
coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle in
accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division (E) does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
§ 70.05  PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this Traffic Code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this Traffic Code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
§ 70.06  PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance; or
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with an animal-drawn vehicle, a ridden or led animal, herded animals,
a pushcart, a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use, a bicycle with motor attached, a motor-driven cycle with a motor
which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower, an agricultural tractor or
farm machinery, except in the performance of public works or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.051)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of a freeway, see R.C. § 4511.011
§ 70.07  USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this Traffic Code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.08  NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Ohio Revised Code or
of any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the
case, upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the
names of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a
request for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as
possible after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division (C).
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.09  LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE
AT DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(R.C. § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 70.10  THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs or traffic-control signals shall be erected at all
intersections with such through highways by the Department of Transportation as
to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities as to highways
under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section. Where
two or more state routes that are through highways intersect, and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section. Whenever the
Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop traffic on a
through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this section shall
be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances warrant, the
Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through highways
under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or removes a
stop sign under this division (A), he or she shall give notice, in writing, of
that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30 days before
installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division (B) intersect and no
traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be
erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65)
§ 70.11  OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 70.12  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as a
result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street or other
property or is otherwise endangering public safety, the Chief of Police or the
Chief of the Fire Department, or a duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf
of such an official, without consent of the owner but with the approval of the
law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of the accident, may remove
the motor vehicle if the motor vehicle is unoccupied, cargo or personal
property from the portion of the highway, public street or property ordinarily
used for vehicular travel on the highway, public street or other property open
to the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section,
the Chief of Police, any police officer, the Chief of the Fire Department, any
firefighter, or a duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of such an
official, who authorizes or participates in the removal of any unoccupied motor
vehicle, cargo or personal property as authorized by division (A) of this
section is not liable in civil damages for any injury, death or loss to person
or property that results from the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo or personal property. Except as provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of
this section, if the Chief of Police or Chief of the Fire Department, or a duly
authorized subordinate acting on behalf of such an official, authorizes,
employs or arranges to have a private tow truck operator or towing company
remove any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo or personal property as authorized
by division (A) of this section, that private tow truck operator or towing
company is not liable in civil damages for any injury, death or loss to person
or property that results from the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo or personal property. Further, the Chief of Police or Chief of the Fire
Department, or a duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of such an
official, is not liable in civil damages for any injury, death or loss to
person or property that results from the private tow truck operator or towing
company’s removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any person or
entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo or
personal property pursuant to division (A) of this section if that removal
causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous material or to structural
damage to the roadway.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a private tow
truck operator or towing company that was not authorized, employed or arranged
by the Chief of Police or Chief of the Fire Department, or a duly authorized
subordinate acting on behalf of such an official, or to a private tow truck
operator or towing company that was authorized, employed or arranged by the
Chief of Police or Chief of the Fire Department, or a duly authorized
subordinate acting on behalf of such an official,  to perform the removal of
the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo or personal property and the private tow
truck operator or towing company performed the removal in a reckless or willful
manner.
   (C)   As used in this section, HAZARDOUS MATERIAL has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2305.232.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
§ 70.13  TRAFFIC DIRECTION IN EMERGENCIES; OBEDIENCE.
   (A)   Police officers shall direct or regulate traffic in accordance with
the provisions of this Traffic Code, provided that, in the event of fire or
other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, they are
authorized to direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the
provisions of this Traffic Code. Firefighters, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity. The direction of traffic may be by word or audible signal, by gesture
or visible signal or by any combination thereof. No person shall fail to comply
with any lawful order or direction of any police officer or firefighter issued
pursuant to this section.
   (B)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any school crossing guard invested with authority to direct, control or
regulate traffic in the vicinity of the school to which such guard may be
assigned.
(1997 Code, § 70.10)
§ 70.14  PARADES AND ASSEMBLAGES.
   (A)   No person, group of persons or organization shall conduct or
participate in any parade, assemblage or procession other than a funeral
procession upon any street or highway, or block off any street or highway area,
without first obtaining a permit from the Police Chief.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made on such forms as may be
prescribed and shall contain such information as is reasonably necessary to a
fair determination of whether a permit should be issued. Applications shall be
filed not less than five days before the time intended for such parade,
procession or assemblage.
   (C)   The permit may be refused or canceled if:
      (1)   The time, place, size or conduct of the parade including the
assembly areas and route of march would unreasonably interfere with the public
convenience and safe use of the streets and highways;
      (2)   The parade would require the diversion of so great a number of
police officers to properly police the line of movement, assembly area and
areas contiguous thereto so as to deny normal police protection to the
municipality;
      (3)   The parade route of march or assembly areas would unreasonably
interfere with the movement of police vehicles, firefighting equipment or
ambulance service to other areas of the municipality;
      (4)   The parade would unreasonably interfere with another parade for
which a permit has been issued;
      (5)   The information contained in the application is found to be false,
misleading or incomplete in any material detail; or
      (6)   An emergency such as a fire or storm would prevent the proper
conduct of the parade.
   (D)   Each animal pulling an animal drawn cart or carriage, being led, or
being ridden on the village streets shall be equipped with a standard manure
net to catch and hold such manure, or be followed by a person or persons
equipped to pick up and contain such manure.
   (E)   The permit or any order accompanying it may limit or prescribe
reasonable conditions, including the hours, the places of assembly and of
dispersal, the route of march or travel and the streets, highways or portions
thereof which may be used or occupied.
(1997 Code, § 70.11)  (Ord. 886-95, passed 2-27-1995)
§ 70.15  TOY VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   No person on roller skates or riding in or by means of any sled, toy
vehicle, skateboard or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except on streets set aside as play
streets.
(1997 Code, § 70.12)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.30  OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this Traffic Code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this Traffic Code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this Traffic Code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic-control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic-control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal; or
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. Parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(1), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
Statutory reference:
   Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, permission required, see
R.C. § 4511.10
   Traffic-control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications,
see R.C. § 4511.11
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 70.31  SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings.
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a U-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal indication
or other traffic-control device. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles
turning right or left or making a U-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way
to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk; and
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a U-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a U-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk; and
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic-control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic- control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2) and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic-control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping,  to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic-control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic-control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping,  to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic-control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication.  A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a U-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications or other traffic-control devices. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a U-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk; and
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a U-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a U-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk; and
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a U-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic-control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic-control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic-
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic-control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic-control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic-control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic-control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   Official traffic-control signal erected and maintained at place other
than an intersection.  In the event an official traffic-control signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their
nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   Railroad grade crossings.  This section does not apply at railroad
grade crossings. Conduct of drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade
crossings shall be governed by R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13)
§ 70.32  AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic-control signals shall do all of the following, if the
signal facing the driver either exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted
arrows or exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly
indicate the assignment of right-of-way:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways; and
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.132)
§ 70.33  PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk,” or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions.
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk,”
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk,” means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic-control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14)
§ 70.34  UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16)
§ 70.35  ALTERATION, DEFACEMENT OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal or any
inscription, shield or insignia on the device, sign or signal, or any part of
the device, sign or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs or other devices
intended to protect it; or
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly tamper with
a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(1), whoever
violates division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the third degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned,
leased or controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(2), whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17)
§ 70.36  UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic-control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic-
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic-control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic-control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic-control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic-control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic-control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18)
§ 70.37  SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic-control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.17(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14) or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer; or
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3) or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031)
§ 70.38  TRAFFIC LAW PHOTO-MONITORING DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC LAW PHOTO-MONITORING DEVICE means an
electronic system consisting of a photographic, video or electronic camera and
a means of sensing the presence of a motor vehicle that automatically produces
photographs, videotape or digital images of the vehicle or its license plate.
   (B)   (1)   The municipality shall not use traffic law photo-monitoring
devices to enforce any traffic law until after it has erected signs on every
highway that is not a freeway that is part of the state highway system and that
enters the municipality. The signs shall inform inbound traffic that the
municipality utilizes traffic law photo-monitoring devices to enforce traffic
laws. The signs shall be erected within the first 300 feet of the boundary of
the municipality or, if the signs cannot be located within the first 300 feet
of the boundary of the municipality, as close to that distance as possible,
provided that if a particular highway enters and exits the territory of the
municipality multiple times, the municipality shall erect the signs as required
by this division (B)(1) at the locations in each direction of travel where
inbound traffic on the highway first enters the territory of the municipality
and is not required to erect additional signs along such highway each time the
highway reenters the territory of the municipality. The municipality is
responsible for all costs associated with the erection, maintenance and
replacement, if necessary, of the signs. All signs erected under this division
(B)(1) shall conform in size, color, location and content to standards
contained in the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to
R.C. § 4511.09 and shall remain in place for as long as the municipality
utilizes traffic law photo-monitoring devices to enforce any traffic law. Any
ticket, citation or summons issued by or on behalf of the municipality for any
traffic law violation based upon evidence gathered by a traffic law photo-
monitoring device after March 12, 2009, but before the signs have been erected,
is invalid; provided that no ticket, citation or summons is invalid if the
municipality is in substantial compliance with the requirement of this division
(B)(1) to erect the signs.
      (2)   The municipality is deemed to be in substantial compliance with the
requirement of division (B)(1) of this section to erect the advisory signs if
the municipality does both of the following:
         (a)   First erects all signs as required by division (B)(1) of this
section and subsequently maintains and replaces the signs as needed so that at
all times at least 90% of the required signs are in place and functional; and
         (b)   Annually documents and upon request certifies its compliance
with division (B)(2)(a) of this section.
   (C)   If the municipality uses traffic law photo-monitoring devices to
enforce any traffic law at an intersection where traffic is controlled by
traffic-control signals that exhibit different colored lights or colored
lighted arrows, the municipality shall time the operation of the yellow lights
and yellow arrows of those traffic-control signals so that the steady yellow
indication exceeds by one second the minimum duration for yellow indicators at
similar intersections as established by the provisions of the manual adopted by
the Department of Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4511.094)
§ 70.39  AUTHORITY TO REGULATE LOCAL TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The provisions of the State Traffic Code as contained in R.C. §§
4511.01 to 4511.78, 4511.99 and 4513.01 to 4513.37 do not prevent the
municipality from carrying out the following activities with respect to the
streets and highways under local jurisdiction and within the reasonable
exercise of the police power by the municipality:
      (1)   Regulating the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, trackless
trolleys and streetcars;
      (2)   Regulating traffic by means of police officers or traffic-control
devices;
      (3)   Regulating or prohibiting processions or assemblages on streets or
highways;
      (4)   Designating particular streets as one-way streets and requiring
that all vehicles, trackless trolleys and streetcars on the one-way highway be
moved in one specific direction;
      (5)   Regulating the speed of vehicles, streetcars and trackless trolleys
in public parks;
      (6)   Designating any street or highway as a through street or highway
and requiring that all vehicles, trackless trolleys and streetcars stop before
entering or crossing the same, or designating any intersection as a stop
intersection and requiring all vehicles, trackless trolleys and streetcars to
stop at one or more entrances to such intersection;
      (7)   Regulating or prohibiting vehicles and trackless trolleys from
passing to the left of safety zones;
      (8)   Regulating the operation of bicycles; provided that no such
regulation shall be fundamentally inconsistent with the uniform rules of the
road prescribed by this chapter and that no such regulation shall prohibit the
use of bicycles on any public street or highway except as provided in R.C. §
4511.051;
      (9)   Requiring the registration and licensing of bicycles, including the
requirement of a registration fee for residents of the municipality;
      (10)   Regulating the use of certain streets by vehicles, streetcars or
trackless trolleys.
   (B)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under divisions (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)
(6), (A)(7), (A)(8) or (A)(10) of this section shall be effective until signs
giving notice of such local traffic regulations are posted upon or at the
entrance to the highway affected, as may be most appropriate.
   (C)   Every ordinance, resolution or regulation enacted under division (A)
(1) of this section shall be enforced in compliance with R.C. § 4511.071,
unless the municipality also enacted an ordinance, resolution or regulation
pursuant to R.C. § 4521.02(A) that specifies that a violation of it shall not
be considered a criminal offense, in which case the ordinance, resolution or
regulation shall be enforced in compliance with R.C. Ch. 4521.
(R.C. § 4511.07)  (1997 Code, § 70.25)
§ 70.40  CONFORMITY WITH STATE MANUAL.
   All traffic-control devices placed pursuant to the provisions of this
Traffic Code shall conform to the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic-Control
Devices for Streets and Highways, as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
(1997 Code, § 70.26)
§ 70.41  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR TRAFFIC SIGNAL ON STATE ROUTE.
   No traffic-control signal shall be placed or maintained upon an extension of
the state highway system within the village without first obtaining the
permission of the Ohio Director of Transportation. The Director may revoke such
permission and may remove or require to be removed any traffic-control signal
which has been erected without his or her permission on an extension of a state
highway within the village, or which, if erected under a permit granted by the
Director, does not conform to the state manual and specifications as required
by §
70.40, or which is not operated in accordance with the terms of the permit.
(R.C. § 4511.11(C))  (1997 Code, § 70.27)
§ 70.42  VIOLATIONS SUBJECT TO MISDEMEANOR CLASSIFICATION.
   Except as otherwise provided, any person violating the rules and regulations
promulgated in connection with this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor which
shall be classified as provided in §
70.99.
(1997 Code, § 70.28)
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 70.55  DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   When severe winter weather conditions result in the anticipation or
accumulation of ice and/or snow, or significant snowfall with high winds which
could or do result in blowing and drifting, or other severe winter conditions
which result in a deterioration in driving conditions, and it becomes necessary
for the village to prepare for and/or to take action to clear village streets
of ice and/or snow in order to provide for safe travel by the public, the
Village Administrator may, and is hereby authorized to, declare that a snow
emergency exists in the village. The snow emergency shall remain in effect
until the Administrator terminates said declaration.
   (B)   The Village Administrator shall upon declaration of a snow emergency
take such steps as are reasonable to notify village residents that a snow
emergency exists. Such actions may include phone calls, faxes or emails to
local news media, including local radio and TV stations. Upon determining that
the appropriate time has come to issue a termination announcement, the Village
Administrator may take the same reasonable steps to issue notification as when
the snow emergency was declared.
   (C)   During the period of any snow emergency, no owner or operator of a
motor vehicle shall park or permit such vehicle to be parked, stopped or
abandoned on any route or street designated by the Village Administrator as a
snow emergency route. Vehicles so parked must be removed by owners within two
hours of the declaration of emergency, unless the declaration is made between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. If the declaration of emergency occurs
between those hours, vehicles must be removed no later than 8:00 a.m.
   (D)   A list of designated snow emergency routes shall be on file at the
Village Office and may be updated from time to time. Snow emergency routes
shall also be clearly marked and indicated by signs along said routes.
   (F)   After the declaration of an emergency as described in division (A) of
this section the Village Administrator may, and is hereby authorized to, upon
his or her discretion, issue the following orders:
      (1)   Prohibit parking on any or all village streets;
      (2)   Close any or all village streets to non-emergency personnel; and/or
      (3)   Call upon any village personnel to report to work to provide
essential emergency response functions.
(Ord. 1052-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 70.56  CLASSIFICATIONS OF SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The Village Administrator shall and is hereby authorized to classify
snow emergencies according to their severity.
   (B)   Said classifications shall be as follows.
      (1)   Level 1 snow emergency.  Roadways are hazardous due to
accumulations and/or blowing and drifting snow. Drivers are urged to use
caution.
      (2)   Level 2 snow emergency.  Roadways are hazardous with blowing and
drifting snow or accumulations of ice. Unnecessary travel on the roadways
should be curtailed. Employees should contact employers to determine if it is
necessary to report to work.
      (3)   Level 3 snow emergency.  Roadways are closed to non-emergency or
essential personnel. Unnecessary travel on the roadways is prohibited.
(Ord. 1052-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 70.57  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle found parked or standing on those streets or
portions hereof designated by the Village Administrator during a snow emergency
may be removed and stored upon the order of any duly appointed officer of the
Police Department at the expense of the owner of said motor vehicle.
   (B)   The owner of such vehicle removed under the provisions of division (A)
of this section shall pay to the Fiscal Officer an amount equal to the cost of
removing such parked vehicle from where it was illegally parked, plus the costs
of storage of such vehicle after its removal, and such motor vehicle shall not
be released to such owner until such costs are paid.
   (C)   If the Village Administrator issues an order restricting non-emergency
personnel from using the village streets, operating a motor vehicle during such
order is prima facie evidence of misconduct at an emergency which creates the
risk of physical harm to persons or property in violation of the code of
ordinances of §
132.06 subjecting themselves to arrest had having their vehicle towed and
impounded in accordance with §
98.02 of the code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1052-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor or
minor misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
130.99(B) through (G).
      (2)   Whoever violates any provision of this Traffic Code for which no
penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one of the
following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2)(b) or (A)(2)(c)
of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; or
         (c)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99)
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
70.55 through
70.57 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed
$100.
(Ord. 1052-05, passed 4-4-2005)
Cross-reference:
   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see §
130.18
   Multiple sentences, see §
130.19
Statutory reference:
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
CHAPTER 71:  LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Display of license plates or validation stickers; registration
   
71.02   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.03   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.04   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
71.05   Display of certificate of registration
   
71.06   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.07   Operating without dealer or manufacturer license plates
   
71.08   License plates to be unobstructed
   
71.09   Operating vehicle with expired license plate or sticker; false
statements
Driver’s Licenses
   
71.20   Prohibited acts
   
71.21   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.22   License required as driver or commercial driver on public or private
property; nonresident exemption
   
71.23   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited
   
71.24   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.25   Suspension of driver’s licenses; license suspended by court of record
   
71.26   Display of license
   
71.27   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.28   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.29   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.30   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.31   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.32   Failure to reinstate license
   
71.33   Driving with temporary instruction permit without licensed driver
Commercial Driver’s Licenses
   
71.45   Definitions
   
71.46   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
   
71.47   Prohibited acts
   
71.48   Prerequisites to operation of commercial motor vehicle
   
71.49   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
   
71.50   Criminal offenses
   
71.51   Application of federal regulations
   
71.52   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Commercial driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4506
   Driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4507
   Motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. Chapter 4504
   Municipal motor vehicle license tax, see R.C. § 4504.06
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Proof of financial responsibility required; civil penalties; peace officers
as agents of Registrar of Motor Vehicles; procedures and rules, see R.C. §§
4509.101 et seq.
   Suspension and revocation of driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4510
   Suspension of driver’s licenses; municipal power to suspend for a period not
to exceed time permitted or required by state law, see R.C. § 4510.05
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01  DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the front and rear of the motor vehicle the
distinctive number and registration mark, including any county identification
sticker and any validation sticker issued under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191,
furnished by the Director of Public Safety, except that a manufacturer of motor
vehicles or dealer therein, the holder of an in-transit permit, and the owner
or operator of a motorcycle, motorized bicycle or moped, motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter, cab-enclosed motorcycle, manufactured home, mobile home, trailer
or semitrailer shall display on the rear only. A motor vehicle that is issued
two license plates shall display the validation sticker only on the rear
license plate, except that a commercial tractor that does not receive an
apportioned license plate under the international registration plan shall
display the validation sticker on the front of the commercial tractor. An
apportioned vehicle receiving an apportioned license plate under the
international registration plan shall display the license plate only on the
front of a commercial tractor and on the rear of all other vehicles. All
license plates shall be securely fastened so as not to swing, and shall not be
covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (2)   No person to whom a temporary license placard or windshield sticker
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary license
placard in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either in the rear window or
on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle, or fail to display the
windshield sticker in plain view on the rear window of the motor vehicle. No
temporary license placard or windshield sticker shall be covered by any
material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.173, 4503.41,
4503.43 and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a motor vehicle
operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail to file
annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (C)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (D)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
§ 71.02  IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4503.05)
§ 71.03  OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236)
§ 71.04  OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a court of common
pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a court of
common pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15 U.S.C.
§ 1981; or
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18)
§ 71.05  DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a “commercial car,” as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law,
shall, when operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the
streets, roads or highways of this municipality display inside or on the
vehicle the certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer provided for in R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry the certificate on
the operator’s person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
commercial car certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18)
§ 71.06  USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark; or
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08)
§ 71.07  OPERATING WITHOUT DEALER OR MANUFACTURER LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays two placards, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that bear the registration number of its manufacturer
or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10)
§ 71.08  LICENSE PLATES TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, upon which license plates are
required by law to be displayed, unless the license plates legally registered
and issued for such vehicle shall be fastened in such a manner, and not
covered, obscured or concealed by any part or accessory of such vehicle or by
any foreign substance or material, to be readable in its entirety from left to
right.
(1997 Code, § 71.05)
§ 71.09  OPERATING VEHICLE WITH EXPIRED LICENSE PLATE OR STICKER; FALSE
STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall park or operate any vehicle upon any public street or
highway upon which is displayed an expired license plate or an expired
validation sticker.
   (B)   No person shall park or operate any vehicle upon any public street or
highway upon which are displayed any license plates not legally registered and
issued for such vehicle, or upon which are displayed any license plates that
were issued on an application for registration that contains any false
statement by the applicant.
(1997 Code, § 73.81)
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.20  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled; or
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal or duplicate
thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s statement
required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be false or
fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30)
Statutory reference:
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 71.21  PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A)
and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age
of 18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder
is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian or custodian, and the parent,
guardian or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(A).
(R.C. § 4507.05(F))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has not
attained the age of 17 years shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for vehicular travel or
parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless the holder is
accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has attained
the age of 17 years but has not attained the age of 18 years shall operate a
motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property used by the
public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or
guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1)(a) of this section, division (C)
(1)(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:00
a.m. and has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation from
the holder’s employer.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is traveling to or from work between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. and has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
      (3)   An employer is not liable in damages in a civil action for any
injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is
related to, the fact that the employer provided an employee who is the holder
of a probationary driver’s license with the written documentation described in
division (C)(2) of this section. The Registrar of Motor Vehicles has available
at no cost a form to serve as the written documentation described in division
(C)(2) of this section, and employers and holders of probationary driver’s
licenses may utilize that form or may choose to utilize any other written
documentation to meet the requirements of that division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who is less than 17
years of age shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
with more than one person who is not a family member occupying the vehicle
unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by the probationary
license holder’s parent, guardian or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, the holder of the
probationary driver’s license was traveling to or from an official function
sponsored by the school the holder attends, or an emergency existed that
required the holder to operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)
(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section, or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(2) of this
section, if a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the holder must be accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle
upon a highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking during whichever of the following time
periods applies:
            1.   If, on the date the holder of the probationary driver’s
license pleads guilty to, is convicted of, or is adjudicated in juvenile court
of having committed the moving violation, the holder has not attained the age
of 16.5 years, during the six-month period commencing on that date; or
            2.   If, on the date the holder pleads guilty to, is convicted of
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed the moving violation,
the holder has attained the age of 16.5 years but not 17 years, until the
person attains the age of 17 years.
         (b)   If the holder of a probationary driver’s license commits a
moving violation during the six-month period after the person is issued the
probationary driver’s license and before the person attains the age of 17 years
and on the date the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of or is adjudicated
in juvenile court of having committed the moving violation the person has
attained the age of 17 years, or if the person commits the moving violation
during the six-month period after the person is issued the probationary
driver’s license and after the person attains the age of 17 years, the holder
is not subject to the restriction described in divisions (E)(1)(a)1. and (E)(1)
(a)2. of this section unless the court or juvenile court imposes such a
restriction upon the holder.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for occupational or educational driving privileges
without being accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian during the period
of time specified in that division. The court may grant the person such driving
privileges if the court finds reasonable cause to believe that the restrictions
established in division (E)(1) of this section will seriously affect the
person’s ability to continue in employment or educational training or will
cause undue hardship on the license holder or a family member of the license
holder. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall specify the
purposes, times and places of the privileges and shall issue the person
appropriate forms setting forth the privileges granted. Occupational or
educational driving privileges under this division (E)(2) shall not be granted
to the same person more than once. If a person is convicted of, pleads guilty
to or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, any driving privileges previously granted under
this division (E)(2) are terminated upon the subsequent conviction, plea or
adjudication.
      (3)   No person shall violate division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER.  A family member of a probationary license holder includes
any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
or
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION.  Means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. The term does
not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance regulating
pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load limitations,
vehicle fitness requirements or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I))
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3) or (F) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J))
§ 71.22  LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY; NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver’s license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles
under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license issued under
R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division (A)(1)(a),
whoever violates this division (A)(1)(a) is guilty of an unclassified
misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender
shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, unless and
until the person surrenders to the Registrar all valid licenses issued to the
person by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. The Registrar shall
report the surrender of a license to the issuing authority, together with
information that a license is now issued in this state. The Registrar shall
destroy any such license that is not returned to the issuing authority. No
person shall be permitted to have more than one valid license at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 mph or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 mph unless the person has a current, valid driver’s or
commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that such nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04)
§ 71.23  EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of “chauffeur” in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321)
§ 71.24  RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code;
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509;
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance; or
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this
section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3) or (A)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity;
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit or privilege; or
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2) or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or
been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3)
of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233; or
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division (C)(4) shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any Deputy Registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea or adjudication and that arises from the
wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203)
§ 71.25  SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSES; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is
substantially equivalent to a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, and a court
is permitted or required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to
any other penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privileges for
the period of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of
suspension imposed for the violation of the provision of this code shall not
exceed the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for
the violation of the provision of the Ohio Revised Code to which the provision
of this code is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15)
§ 71.26  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35)
§ 71.27  PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this Traffic Code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36)
§ 71.28  DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.31 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, other than R.C.
Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which
the person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any other
sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a Deputy Registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22 or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension.  Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a 12-point suspension, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a minimum term of
three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days of jail time
imposed pursuant to this division (C).
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   Affirmative defense.  It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution
brought under division (A) of this section that the alleged offender drove
under suspension, without a valid permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, or in violation of a restriction because of a substantial emergency,
and because no other person was reasonably available to drive in response to
the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 71.29  OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04 and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04 and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows.
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division (C)(1), the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor.
When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), the offense is a
minor misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of
this section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was
expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12)
§ 71.30  DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation of
a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public roads
or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division (B)(1)(a) shall not exceed six months.
If the court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division (B)(1)
(a), the court may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that
in no case shall the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six
months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section; and
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section; and
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section; and
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division (B)(3)(d) is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal Indigent
Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as created by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the Mayor of a Mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or R.C. § 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from
holding a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the
commercial driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person
whose commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be
issued a driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE.  Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section; or
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM.  Means the mandatory term in jail of three, ten or
30 consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)
(3) of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A)
of this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail; and
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision of
the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.31  DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this divisions (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(2) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (E)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under
this section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the order of suspension resulted from the failure of the alleged
offender to respond to a financial responsibility random verification request
under R.C. § 4509.101(A)(3)(c) and that, at the time of the initial financial
responsibility random verification request, the alleged offender was in
compliance with R.C. § 4509.101(A)(1) as shown by proof of financial
responsibility that was in effect at the time of that request.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.32  FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 71.33  DRIVING WITH TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION PERMIT WITHOUT LICENSED DRIVER.
   No person, who is the holder of a temporary instruction permit, issued by
the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05, shall drive a
motor vehicle upon a street or highway, except when having such permit in his
or her immediate possession and when accompanied by a licensed operator who is
actually occupying a seat beside the driver.
(1997 Code, § 71.24)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.45  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION.  The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following: 100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum or blood plasma; 210
liters of breath; or 100 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE.  A license issued in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4506 that authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM.  The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.  Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a combined gross vehicle weight
rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross vehicle weight rating
of the vehicle or vehicles being towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001
pounds or more, or any such vehicle towing a vehicle having a gross vehicle
weight rating that is not in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight rating of less than
26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16 passengers including
the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
Controlled Substances Act, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. Part
1308, as amended; and
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION.  An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION.  Means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation or cancellation of a person’s privileges
to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight or vehicle
defect violations; or
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. Part 391.
   DOWNGRADE.  Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license holder’s self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(2);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle; or
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE.  To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER.  Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE.  A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE.  Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C.
§ 4729.01, or over-the-counter medication that, when taken in quantities
exceeding the recommended dosage, can result in impairment of judgment or
reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE.  Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer and any other device used to input, write, send,
receive or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT.  A village, township or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER.  Any person, including the federal government, any state and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT.  An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license
that is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK.  A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry and other animals and things used for breeding, feeding
or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the truck is
operated in accordance with this definition and is not used in the operations
of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY.  The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY.  Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION.  Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING.  The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross vehicle
weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. Part
172, Subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. Part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD.  The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury or a substantial
endangerment to health, property or the environment may occur before the
reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun to lessen
the risk of death, illness, injury or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE.  One of the following received by a driver from the
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued
a medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. Part 381, Subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64; or
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that such term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER.  A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01
   PORTABLE TANK.  A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be
loaded onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids,
mountings or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical
means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE.  Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   A violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of
this state, or any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution
prohibiting texting while driving, or any other substantially similar law of
another state or political subdivision of another state; or
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 mph or more;
         (b)   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or R.C. § 4511.201 or any
substantially equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or R.C. § 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state; or
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state or an ordinance or
resolution relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, that is
determined to be a serious traffic violation by the United States Secretary of
Transportation and the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates as such by
rule.
   STATE.  A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE.  Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport
any liquid and has a maximum capacity greater than 119 gallons or is designed
to transport gaseous materials and has a water capacity greater than 1,000
pounds within a tank that is either permanently or temporarily attached to the
vehicle or its chassis. The term does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any portable tank having a rated capacity of less than 1,000
gallons;
      (2)   Tanks used exclusively as a fuel tank for the motor vehicle to
which it is attached;
      (3)   An empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation and that is readily distinguishable from a transportation tank;
or
      (4)   Ready-mix concrete mixers.
   TESTER.  Means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING.  Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. TEXTING includes short message service (SMS), email, instant
messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page, or engaging in
any other form of electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future
communication. TEXTING does not include the following:
      (1)   Reading, selecting or entering a telephone number, an extension
number or voicemail retrieval codes and commands into an electronic device for
the purpose of initiating or receiving a telephone call or using voice commands
to initiate or receive a telephone call; or
      (2)   Inputting, selecting or reading information on a global positioning
system or navigation system.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING.  Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic-control device or other momentary delays, but does not
include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without the motor running
when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off, a highway and is
stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain stationary.
   UNITED STATES.  The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE.  A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements or self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(2) that expands the ability of a
current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor vehicles
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01)
§ 71.46  USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011)
§ 71.47  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
or
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the State Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license.
(R.C. § 4506.12(E))
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4506.12(F))
§ 71.48  PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) or (C) of this section, the
following shall apply.
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this municipality unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession,
a valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for the motor
vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, a valid
examiner’s commercial driver’s permit issued under R.C. § 4506.13, a valid
restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for farm-related service
industries issued under R.C. § 4506.24, or a valid commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued by the Registrar and is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license with proper endorsements for the motor vehicle being driven.
      (2)   No person shall be issued a commercial driver’s license until the
person surrenders to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles all valid licenses issued
to the person by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. The Registrar
shall report the surrender of a license to the issuing authority, together with
information that a license is now issued in this state. The Registrar shall
destroy any such license that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued in another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a Fire Department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district or joint fire district;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding or salting, but only
if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued under
R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for these
purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible unit of
local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that requires
additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. OPERATED FOR NONBUSINESS PURPOSES means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as commerce is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 383.5, as
amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921 or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise;
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle; or
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in division (B)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this
state concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
(R.C. § 4506.03(A) - (C))
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App., for issuance of commercial
driver’s licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or permit is not
suspended, revoked or cancelled;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of-service order; and
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with this chapter or R.C.
Chapter 4506 and is able to verify the medical certification when on duty as
follows.
         (a)   Prior to January 30, 2012, the person shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the person’s current medical examiner’s
certificate when on duty.
         (b)   On or after January 30, 2012:
            1.   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with R.C. § 4506.10(A)(2) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty;
            2.   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system is required to
have in the person’s possession when on duty the original or copy of a current
medical examiner’s certificate that was issued prior to January 30, 2012,
except that after January 30, 2014, such person is required to have in the
person’s possession when on duty, the original or a copy of the current medical
examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar, but the person may
operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical certification for
not more than 15 days after the date the current medical examiner’s certificate
was issued to the person; and
            3.   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
(R.C. § 4506.05(A))
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.03(D), 4506.05(B))
§ 71.49  PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Prior to January 30, 2012, each person who drives or expects to
drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce or is
otherwise subject to 49 C.F.R. §§ 391 et seq., as amended, shall certify to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles at the time of application for a commercial
driver’s license that the person is in compliance with these standards. Any
person who is not subject to 49 C.F.R. §§ 391 et seq., as amended, shall also
certify at the time of application that the person is not subject to these
standards.
      (2)   Beginning on January 30, 2012, any person applying for a commercial
driver’s license, renewing of a commercial driver’s license or transferring a
commercial driver’s license from out of state shall self-certify to the
Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71 one of the following in regard to
the applicant’s operation of a commercial motor vehicle, as applicable:
         (a)   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to
and meets the requirements under 49 C.F.R. Part 391, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted interstate and shall provide the
Registrar with the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and
each subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record; or
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68 or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. Part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate.
         (b)   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and
is subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall
self-certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate; or
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license, every commercial driver’s license holder shall provide the
Registrar with the certification required by this section, on or after January
30, 2012, but prior to January 30, 2014.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E))
§ 71.50  CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or operates a motor
vehicle for which a commercial driver’s license is required shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. § 4511.191,
or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driving privileges are revoked, suspended, cancelled or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§  4511.61 through 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined in
R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute or
dispense a controlled substance.
(R.C. § 4506.15(A))
   (B)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license to a peace officer when required to do so by R.C. §
4506.17.
(R.C. § 4506.17(H))
   (C)   (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority,
any peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (A)
of this section without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to
believe that a violation of division (A) of this section has been committed and
a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum,
breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an
appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after
being warned as provided in R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test that
discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of
0.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of .048% or
more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an alcohol concentration of .056% or
more by urine, the peace officer shall require that the person immediately
surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the
limits within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a
warrant under R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers
of the State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person
who, in the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(B), 4506.17(N))
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
R.C. § 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 71.51  APPLICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. Part 383, Subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19)
§ 71.52  EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers; and
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction; or
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99)
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Lanes of travel upon roadways
   
72.002   Driving through safety zone
   
72.003   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.004   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.005   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.006   Driving to left of centerline
   
72.007   Prohibition against driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.008   Hazardous zones
   
72.009   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.010   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.011   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.012   Divided roadways
   
72.013   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.014   U-turns and turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.015   Starting and backing vehicles
   
72.016   Turn and stop signals
   
72.017   Hand and arm signals
   
72.018   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway
   
72.019   Turning into private driveway, alley or building
Right-of-Way
   
72.030   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.031   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.032   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.033   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.034   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.035   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
72.036   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.037   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.038   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.039   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
72.040   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.041   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
Pedestrians
   
72.055   Pedestrian movement in crosswalks
   
72.056   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
72.057   Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
72.058   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.059   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.060   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.061   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
Grade Crossings
   
72.075   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.076   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.077   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.078   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
School Buses
   
72.090   Regulations concerning school buses
   
72.091   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
72.092   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
72.093   School bus inspection
   
72.094   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.095   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
72.096   Registration and identification of school buses
   
72.097   School bus marking
   
72.098   Flashing light signal lamps
   
72.099   Occupant restraining device for operator
Prohibitions
   
72.110   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.111   Occupying travel trailer while in motion
   
72.112   Driving upon closed highway prohibited
   
72.113   Driving upon sidewalk area or paths exclusively for bicycles
   
72.114   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.115   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle with caution
   
72.116   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.117   Placing injurious material on highway or depositing litter from motor
vehicle
   
72.118   Transporting child not in child-restraint system prohibited
   
72.119   Occupant restraining devices
   
72.120   Use of engine brakes prohibited
   
72.121   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.122   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.123   Operating traction engine upon improved highway
   
72.124   Cracking exhaust noises; peeling out
   
72.125   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.126   Texting while driving prohibited
   
72.127   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001  LANES OF TRAVEL UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic; and
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn; or
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division (C)
shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the centerline in making
a left turn into or from an alley, private road or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.25)
§ 72.002  DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.60)
§ 72.003  VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.26)
§ 72.004  RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction.
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.27)
§ 72.005  PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.28)
§ 72.006  DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTERLINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.29)
§ 72.007  PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.30)
§ 72.008  HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or centerline of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location;
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit; and
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or centerline of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 72.009  ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.32)
§ 72.010  RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply.
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.33)
§ 72.011  SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division (A)(2) does not prevent overtaking and
passing nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division (A)(3) shall not apply to funeral
processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.34)
§ 72.012  DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier or section, except through an
opening, crossover or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.35)
§ 72.013  RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules.
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of the centerline where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of
the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in
that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections, and
thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in this
section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when markers,
buttons or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn the vehicle
at an intersection other than as directed and required by the markers, buttons
or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.36)
§ 72.014  U-TURNS AND TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division (B) applies only when the emergency vehicle
or public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with
and displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle or bell. This division (B) does not relieve the driver
of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.37)
§ 72.015  STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties; and
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.38)
§ 72.016  TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time but is not required to
be continuous. A bicycle operator is not required to make a signal if the
bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and a signal shall not be given when the
operator’s hands are needed for the safe operation of the bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.39)
§ 72.017  HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this Traffic Code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward; and
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle may give a right turn signal by extending the right hand
and arm horizontally and to the right side of the bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.40)
§ 72.018  ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(1997 Code, § 72.018)
§ 72.019  TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY OR BUILDING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or
driveway, alley or building from a public street or highway shall be governed
by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway;
      (2)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof; and
      (3)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable
to the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
road or driveway, alley or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
private road, driveway or building.
(1997 Code, § 72.019)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.030  RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this Traffic Code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.41)
§ 72.031  RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.42)
§ 72.032  RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of-way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.43)
§ 72.033  STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road
or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the vehicle
immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09; and
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division (B)(2), where appropriate,
may be incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the
driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed
in accordance with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing
such a road or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §
4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION.
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS.  Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY.  Means that portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways collectively.
(R.C.§§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (F), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D))
§ 72.034  RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.44)
§ 72.035  PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.441)
§ 72.036  RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4511.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on
a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first offense,
the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on each
subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
§ 72.037  FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Ohio Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.451)
§ 72.038  PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452)
§ 72.039  PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (E), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.46)
§ 72.040  RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.47)
§ 72.041  RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (F), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.055  PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49)
§ 72.056  PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (E), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50)
§ 72.057  PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The legislative authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The legislative authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the legislative authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to IRC § 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 mph, unless either of the following applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(1), whoever
violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor
vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A)
through (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
§ 72.058  PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511)
§ 72.059  PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 72.060  INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481)
§ 72.061  OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet; and
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 mph or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
or
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS and KNEE PADS.”
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a Board of Park District
Commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or Board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10; and
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50; or
            2.   If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 mph.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.075  STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 5733.43.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013 and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.61)
§ 72.076  DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered;
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train;
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed;
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing; or
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62)
§ 72.077  VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle or any vehicle transporting material required to be
placarded under 49 C.F.R. Parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade any
track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped, shall listen
through an open door or open window, and look in both directions along the
track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a
train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping, looking
and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the operator of
such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there will be no
necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing, and shall not shift
gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS.  Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING.  Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE.  Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section
or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77 or 4511.79,
or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
§ 72.078  SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller or any equipment or structure having a normal operating
speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load clearance of
less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon or across any
tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with divisions (A)
(1) and (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment or structure
is not more than three mph, the person owning, operating or moving the same
shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.64)
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.090  REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division (A) that the school
bus involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended
stop warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the state Board of Education, which shall be actuated by the driver
of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped or stopping on the
roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending programs offered by
head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate the visual signals
or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading areas where the bus
is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when children or persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading at curbside or at
buildings when children attending programs offered by head start agencies are
loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and stop warning sign
shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by rule of the Board.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or Mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or Mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or Clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS.  As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the State Board of Education, is painted the color and displays the
markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped with amber and red visual
signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77, irrespective of whether or
not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any time. The term does not
include a van owned and operated by a head start agency, irrespective of its
color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75)
§ 72.091  VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary license placard issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or substantially
equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751)
§ 72.092  RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Department of Education of
the Department of Public Safety. No person, being the owner thereof, or having
the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit the operation of a
vehicle used for pupil transportation within this municipality in violation of
the rules of the Department of Education or the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Department of Education by rule
and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section
or R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77 or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (E), (F))
§ 72.093  SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section
or R.C. § 4511.761, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77 or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761)
§ 72.094  SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height;
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance is covered or obliterated;
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed;
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed; and
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section
or R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77 or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762)
§ 72.095  LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763)
§ 72.096  REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. §
4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77 or 4511.79 or a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764)
§ 72.097  SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section
or R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764 or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77)
§ 72.098  FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771)
§ 72.099  OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease or rent a new school bus unless the school bus has
an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed for
use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.110  OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70)
§ 72.111  OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   No person shall occupy any travel trailer or manufactured or mobile
home while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 72.112  DRIVING UPON CLOSED HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.71)
§ 72.113  DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle, upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles, except that no local
authority may require that bicycles be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B))
§ 72.114  OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.712)
§ 72.115  FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited.  The driver of
any vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on
official business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into
or park the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in
answer to a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a
firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle,  emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, vehicle used by the
Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance
with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle that is
displaying the appropriate visual signals by means of flashing, oscillating or
rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. § 4513.17, shall do either of the
following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle; or
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, vehicle used by the Public
Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with
R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle from the duty to
drive with due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the
highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(1), whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
§ 72.116  DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the Fire Department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.73)
§ 72.117  PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or
other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles which
may damage or injure any person, vehicle or animal traveling along or upon such
highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway by proper
authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (E)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (F)(1), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C))
§ 72.118  TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD-RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age; and/or
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or day-care center,
the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age; and/or
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B) or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C) or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C) or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L))
§ 72.119  OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions.  As used in this section:
      AUTOMOBILE.  Means any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car
or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL CAR.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE.  A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER.  Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      PASSENGER CAR.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      TORT ACTION.  A civil action for damages for injury, death or loss to
person or property. The term includes a product liability claim, as defined in
R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does
not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another
agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and  MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted;
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device;
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device; or
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions.  Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a
person who is required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance to be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is an employee
of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery service,
during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of an
automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees. Divisions (B)(1) and
(B)(3) of this section do not apply to a person who has an affidavit signed by
a physician licensed to practice in this state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a
chiropractor licensed to practice in this state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that
states that the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an occupant
restraining device impossible or impractical.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation. 
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program.  All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor or seller of the passenger car; and
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(4), whoever
violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263)
Cross-reference:
   Child restraint systems, see §
72.118
   Installation and sale of seat safety belts, see §
74.33
   School bus operators, restraining devices, see §
72.099
§ 72.120  USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The non-emergency use of engine brakes within the municipality is
prohibited.
   (B)   As used in this section, ENGINE BRAKES shall be defined to include but
is not limited to Jake Brakes, Jacobs Brakes, C Brakes, PacBrakes, TekBrakes
and any other type of engine retarders commonly utilized within the trucking
industry.
   (C)   This section does not apply to emergency vehicles operated by fire,
police or military units.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 72.121  OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears. As used in this section, EARPHONES means any
headset, radio, tape player or other similar device that provides the listener
with radio programs, music or other recorded information through a device
attached to the head and that covers all or a portion of both ears. The term
does not include speakers or other listening devices that are built into
protective headgear.
   (B)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person operating equipment for use in the maintenance or repair
of any highway; and
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84)
§ 72.122  CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (B)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (C)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85)
Statutory reference:
   Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. § 4503.24
   Proof of financial responsibility, see R.C. § 4509.80
§ 72.123  OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. As used in this section, “traction engine” or “tractor” applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A) of this
section, nor shall this municipality require any license tax upon or
registration fee for any traction engine, tractor or trailer, or any permit or
license to operate. Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the
same rights upon the public streets and highways as the drivers of any other
vehicles, unless some other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public
road open to traffic shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 72.124  CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling out.”
§ 72.125  SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
§ 72.126  TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any street, highway or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using a handheld
electronic wireless communications device to write, send or read a text-based
communication.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner for emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a
law enforcement agency, hospital or health care provider, Fire Department or
other similar emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle who uses a handheld
electronic wireless communications device in that manner in the course of the
person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner whose motor vehicle is in a stationary position and who is
outside a lane of travel;
      (4)   A person reading, selecting or entering a name or telephone number
in a handheld electronic wireless communications device for the purpose of
making or receiving a telephone call;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on a device regarding the
operation or navigation of a motor vehicle; safety-related information,
including emergency, traffic or weather alerts; or data used primarily by the
motor vehicle;
      (6)   A person receiving wireless messages via radio waves;
      (7)   A person using a device for navigation purposes;
      (8)   A person conducting wireless interpersonal communication with a
device that does not require manually entering letters, numbers or symbols or
reading text messages, except to activate, deactivate or initiate the device or
a feature or function of the device;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data; and
      (10)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications
device in conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free device feature or
function of the vehicle.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on
any street or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (A) of this section has been or is
being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or
summons for a violation of that nature or causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for a violation of that nature, and no law enforcement
officer shall view the interior or visually inspect any automobile being
operated on any street or highway for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of that nature has been or is being committed.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (E)   A prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 4511.204 does not preclude a
prosecution for a violation of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
based on the same conduct. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.204 and is also convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance based
on the same conduct, the two offenses are allied offenses of similar import
under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.  Includes any of the
following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
or
         (e)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE DEVICE.  A device that allows the user to
vocally compose or send, or to listen to a text-based communication without the
use of either hand except to activate or deactivate a feature or function.
      WRITE, SEND OR READ A TEXT-BASED COMMUNICATION.  To manually write or
send, or read a text-based communication using an electronic wireless
communications device, including manually writing or sending, or reading
communications referred to as text messages, instant messages or electronic
mail.
(R.C. § 4511.204)
Statutory reference:
   No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 72.127  USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, Fire Department or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel; or
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
R.C. § 4511.205 does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a
violation of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for the same
conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of R.C. § 4511.205 and is also adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for the same conduct, the two
offenses are allied offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device; or
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205)
CHAPTER 73:  MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.02   Implied consent
   
73.03   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.04   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.05   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.06   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.07   Operator to be in reasonable control
   
73.08   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.09   Street racing defined; prohibited on public highways
   
73.10   Speed limits
   
73.11   Slow speed or stopping
   
73.12   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.13   Speed regulations on bridges
   
73.14   Presenting false name or information to officer
   
73.15   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.16   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
Stopping After Accident
   
73.30   Exchange of identity and vehicle registration
   
73.31   Accident involving injury to persons or property
   
73.32   Accident involving damage to realty
   
73.33   Failure to report accident
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01  DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them;
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood;
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma;
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath;
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine;
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood;
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma;
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath;
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine; or
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma;
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma;
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma;
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma;
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma;
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma;
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma;
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and, as measured by gas chromatography mass
spectrometry, the person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum
or plasma; or
               b.   As measured by gas chromatography mass spectrometry, the
person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at
least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma;
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma; or
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division (A)(2) or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) or (B) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them; and
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood;
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma;
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath; or
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine or
other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division (D)
(1)(b) regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-
hour time limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time
during which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in
that section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol,
drugs of abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division (D)(1)
(b) when a person submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement
officer under R.C. § 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, or a blood or urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant.
Only a physician, a registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-
intermediate, an emergency medical technician-paramedic or a qualified
technician, chemist or phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the
purpose of determining the alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a
controlled substance, or combination content of the whole blood, blood serum or
blood plasma. This limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine
specimens. A person authorized to withdraw blood under this division (D)(1)(b)
may refuse to withdraw blood under this division (D)(1)(b), if in that person’s
opinion, the physical welfare of the person would be endangered by the
withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance withdrawn under this division (D)(1)
(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with methods approved by the Director of
Health by an individual possessing a valid permit issued by the Director
pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division (D)(2) does
not limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of
this section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse or a qualified technician,
chemist or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical test
or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
73.02, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath or urine, if a law enforcement officer has administered
a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in the violation
and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the officer
administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing standards for
any reliable, credible and generally accepted field sobriety tests that were in
effect at the time the tests were administered, including but not limited to
any testing standards then in effect that were set by the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered;
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding; and
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i) or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division (E)
(1) that contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, urine or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the
information specified in this division (E)(1) shall be admitted as prima facie
evidence of the information and statements that the report contains. The
laboratory report shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties; and
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (F)(1), any
physician, registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate,
emergency medical technician-paramedic or qualified technician, chemist or
phlebotomist who withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C.
§ 4511.19, 4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station or clinic
at which blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. §
4511.19, 4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil
liability based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is
not a claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division (F)(1) also extends to an
emergency medical service organization that employs an emergency medical
technician-intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws
blood under this section. The immunity provided in this division (F)(1) is not
available to a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or
wanton misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d) or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to all of the
penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i) through (G)(1)
(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within six years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) or (B) of this
section or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and
sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within six years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) or (B) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within six years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) or
(B) of this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20
years of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
five or more violations of that nature is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d) or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division
(G) of this section.
      (8)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privilege form the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6).
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
or (B) of this section or other equivalent offense or offenses, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction
imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   If the offender also is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court
imposes a jail term for the violation of division (B) of this section, the
court shall impose upon the offender an additional definite jail term pursuant
to R.C. § 2929.24(E).
      (4)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or after
committing the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs; and
      (2)   The person injected, ingested or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M))
   (N)   As used in this section, §
73.02 and §
73.03:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE.  Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2) or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B); or
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED.  Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of
the definition for EQUIVALENT OFFENSE provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B); or
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B).
      JAIL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM.  Means the mandatory term in jail of three, six,
ten, 20, 30 or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)
(1)(b) or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A)
of that section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail; and
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MANDATORY PRISON TERM.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE.  Mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine.
      PRISON TERM.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      SANCTION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
Cross-reference:
   Endangering children, see §
135.14
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 73.02  IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d)
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request pursuant
to this division (A)(5)(a) that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division (A)
(5)(a).
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division (A)(5)(b) to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of
the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and
civil liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim
for the acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith,
or in a wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall
give that advice in a written form that contains the information described in
division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form
shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest
and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall
witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the witnesses shall
certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the
chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer,
within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does
not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to
submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form to
the person:
      You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state
law or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
      If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio
driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a
fee to have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI,
OVUAC, or operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or
municipal law within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state
OVI, and, if you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased
penalties if you subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
      (Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any
chemical test required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine as set by
law, your Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will
have to pay a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
      If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test
taken at your own expense.
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath
or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement officer
asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section to
submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath
or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer shall do all
of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change; and
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine at the time of the alleged
offense; and
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine at the time of
the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, who
is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section, and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.03 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
Statutory reference:
   Continuous alcohol monitoring, see R.C. § 4511.198
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and Indigent Drivers
Alcohol Treatment Funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.03  PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a
combination of them;
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d) or (A)(1)(e); or
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered;
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding; and
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds
the amount specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs; and
      (2)   The person injected, ingested or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194)
§ 73.04  DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such vehicle.
No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s ability
or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive
such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section
or R.C. § 4511.79 or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764 or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79)
§ 73.05  RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.06  RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.07  OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
§ 73.08  IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender with limited driving privileges, during any period
that the offender is required to operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an
immobilizing or disabling device, shall request or permit any other person to
breathe into the device if it is an ignition interlock device or another type
of device that monitors the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or to
otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped with the device, for the purpose of
providing the offender with an operable motor vehicle.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this section, no
person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device that is an
ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors the
concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to an offender with limited driving
privileges who is permitted to operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an
immobilizing or disabling device.
         (b)   Division (A)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to a person in
the following circumstances:
            1.   The person is an offender with limited driving privileges;
            2.   The person breathes into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise starts a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device; and
            3.   The person breathes into the device or starts the vehicle for
the purpose of providing the person with an operable motor vehicle.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
§ 73.09  STREET RACING DEFINED; PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through (B)(8)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly accelerating from
a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima facie lawful speeds
shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (B)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street or highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit or
privilege imposed under this division (C).
(R.C. § 4511.251)
§ 73.10  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following.
      (1)   (a)   Twenty mph in school zones during school recess and while
children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing hours,
and when 20 mph school speed limit signs are erected, except that on
controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line fence has
been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed by
division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means any school chartered under
R.C. § 3301.16 and any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Department of Education in compliance with O.A.C. § 3301-35-08, a copy
of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s pupils certifying that
the school meets state minimum standards for nonchartered, nontax-supported
schools and presents evidence of this filing to the jurisdiction from which it
is requesting the establishment of a school zone. The term also includes a
special elementary school that in writing requests the County Engineer to
create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon receipt of such
written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone at that
location by erecting appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction; and
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division (B)(1)(e), CROSSWALK has the meaning
given that term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the legislative
authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source;
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade;
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation;
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood; and
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five mph in all other portions of the municipality, except
on state routes outside business districts, through highways outside business
districts and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five mph on all state routes or through highways within the
municipality outside business districts, except as provided in divisions (B)(4)
and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty mph on controlled-access highways and expressways within the
municipality;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, and
highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13),
(B)(14) and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty mph on state routes within the municipality outside urban
districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as further provided
in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen mph on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five mph on highways outside the municipality that are
within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (10)   Fifty-five miles per hour at all times on freeways with paved
shoulders inside the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions
(B)(14) and (B)(16) of this section;
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour at all times on freeways outside the
municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)(16)
of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour for operators of any motor vehicle at all
times on all portions of rural divided highways;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour for operators of any motor vehicle at
all times on all rural expressways without traffic control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour for operators of any motor vehicle at all
times on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour for operators of any motor vehicle at
all times on all portions of freeways in congested areas as determined by the
Director and that are part of the interstate system and are located within a
municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway outerbelt;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour for operators of any motor vehicle at
all times on all portions of freeways in urban areas as determined by the
Director and that are part of the interstate system and are part of an
interstate freeway outerbelt.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7) and
(B)(8) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this section
by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person to
exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No person
shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the same
conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section may be
charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(9) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14) and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(9) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7) or (B)(8) of, or a limit declared or
established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima facie
lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7) or (B)(8) of this section, or of a limit declared or established
pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7) or (B)(8) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to, this
section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of conviction
under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of this section.
If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7) or (B)(8) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to, this
section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the evidence supports
a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS.  Means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM.  Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS.  Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a
motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with
a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Outside urbanized areas, as designated in accordance with 23
U.S.C. § 101, and outside of a business or urban district.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 mph and is indicated by a
sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be seen by an
ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the basic speed
limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation
pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09; and
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section.
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER.  Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E))
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b) and (K)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; or
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any provision of division (A) through (I) of this
section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any other municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any provision of that section, and operated a motor vehicle
faster than 35 mph in a business district of the municipality, faster than 50
mph in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35 mph in a school
zone during recess or while children are going to or leaving school during the
school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division (K)(1)(c) and if the court determines that the
offender is an indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
      (2)   Division (J).  A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is
one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(b) and (K)(2)
(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
or
         (c)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (J)
(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.211(F))
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
through (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.11  SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 mph, greater than 50 mph, nor effective until the provisions of
R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, relating to
appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local authorities have obtained the
approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.22)
§ 73.12  EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24)
§ 73.13  SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.23)
§ 73.14  PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display or orally communicate a
false name, Social Security number or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
§ 73.15  PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct or abuse any Sheriff,
constable or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Title VII. No person shall interfere with
any person charged under any provision of this Title VII with the enforcement
of the law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 73.16  OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER- SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (G)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (G) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (G) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
   (H)   This section will take effect on January 1, 2017.
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.30  EXCHANGE OF IDENTITY AND VEHICLE REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   In case of accident to or collision with persons or property
upon any of the public roads or highways, due to the driving or operation
thereon of any motor vehicle, the person driving or operating the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the driver’s or operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or
collision and shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
driver or operator has given the driver’s or operator’s name and address and,
if the driver or operator is not the owner, the name and address of the owner
of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, to any person injured in the accident or collision or to the operator,
occupant, owner or attendant of any motor vehicle damaged in the accident or
collision, or to any police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event the injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given by this section, the other driver involved
in the accident or collision forthwith shall notify the nearest police
authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
driver’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
driver was operating, and then remain at the scene of the accident or collision
until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by an emergency
vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
accident or collision results in serious physical harm or death to a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. The court, in addition to any other penalties provided
by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit or privilege required by this
division (B)(1).
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before,
during or after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02)
§ 73.31  ACCIDENT INVOLVING INJURY TO PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   In case of accident or collision resulting in injury or damage
to persons or property upon any public or private property other than public
roads or highways, due to the driving or operation thereon of any motor
vehicle, the person driving or operating the motor vehicle, having knowledge of
the accident or collision, shall stop, and, upon request of the person injured
or damaged, or any other person, shall give that person the driver’s or
operator’s name and address, and, if the driver or operator is not the owner,
the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together with the
registered number of that motor vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the
driver’s or operator’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the damaged property is not
furnished such information, the driver of the motor vehicle involved in the
accident or collision, within 24 hours after the accident or collision, shall
forward to the Police Department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the damaged property
and give the date, time and location of the accident or collision.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm or death
to a person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. The court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall
suspend the first six months of suspension of an offender’s license, permit or
privilege required by this division (B)(1).
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before,
during or after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021)
§ 73.32  ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the Police Department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03)
§ 73.33  FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4509.74)
CHAPTER 74:  EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicles, prohibition against operation
   
74.02   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.03   Lighted lights required
   
74.04   Headlights
   
74.05   Tail lights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.06   Red reflectors required
   
74.07   Safety lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.08   Stoplight regulations
   
74.09   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.10   Red light or flag required
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Lights and emblem on slow-moving vehicles; lights and reflectors on
multi-wheel agricultural tractors or farm machinery
   
74.13   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.14   Cowl, fender and back-up lights
   
74.15   Two lights displayed
   
74.16   Headlights required
   
74.17   Lights of less intensity
   
74.18   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.19   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.20   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.21   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.22   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.23   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.24   Brake fluid
   
74.25   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.26   Horns, sirens and warning devices
   
74.27   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.28   Rearview mirrors
   
74.29   Windshields and wipers
   
74.30   Solid tire requirements
   
74.31   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.32   Directional signals
   
74.33   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required; definition
   
74.34   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.35   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.36   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.37   Studded tires; seasonal use permitted
   
74.38   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.39   Air bags
   
74.40   Air cleaner required
Loads
   
74.55   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.56   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.57   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.58   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.59   Weighing of vehicle; removal of excess load
   
74.60   Operation of vehicle exceeding weight limits prohibited
   
74.61   Load limits
   
74.62   Maximum width, height and length
   
74.63   Statement of gross vehicle weight
   
74.64   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.65   Liability for damages; prosecution; application of monies
   
74.66   Weight exceptions for certain vehicles
   
74.67   Use of local streets; local permit and conditions
Statutory reference:
   Exemption of certain vehicles from emission, noise control and fuel
standards, see R.C. § 4513.41
   Exemption of collector’s or historical vehicles from equipment standards,
see R.C. § 4513.38
   Motorcycles, protective eye devices required for operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Snowmobiles and all-purpose vehicles, equipment, see O.A.C. § 4501-29-01
   Vehicle lighting, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-15
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01  UNSAFE VEHICLES, PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H))
§ 74.02  BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING.  Means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE.  Means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      PASSENGER CAR.  Means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      TRUCK.  Means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs; or
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 74.03  LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the following
times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead; and
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03)
§ 74.04  HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04)
§ 74.05  TAIL LIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05)
§ 74.06  RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06)
§ 74.07  SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07)
§ 74.08  STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
§ 74.09  OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08)
§ 74.10  RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09)
§ 74.11  LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.12  LIGHTS AND EMBLEM ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES; LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS ON
MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS OR FARM MACHINERY.
   (A)   All vehicles other than bicycles, including animal-drawn vehicles and
vehicles referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G), not specifically required to be
equipped with lamps or other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.10, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, shall, at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, be equipped with at least one lamp displaying a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle and
also shall be equipped with two lamps displaying red light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to 100 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful
lower beams of headlamps. Lamps and reflectors required by this section shall
meet standards adopted by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   All boat trailers, farm machinery and other machinery, including all
road construction machinery, upon a street or highway, except when being used
in actual construction and maintenance work in an area guarded by a flagperson,
or where flares are used, or when operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Director of Transportation, a city or
village engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Director and
the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09, which is designed for operation at a speed of
25 mph or less, shall be operated at a speed not exceeding 25 mph, and shall
display a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem (SMV). The emblem shall be
mounted so as to be visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the
rear. The Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications
for the design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for SMV emblems referred to in this section shall correlate with
and, so far as possible, conform with those approved by the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers. A unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 mph may be operated on a
street or highway at a speed greater than 25 mph provided it is operated in
accordance with this section. As used in this division (B), “machinery” does
not include any vehicle designed to be drawn by an animal.
   (C)   The use of the SMV emblem shall be restricted to animal-drawn vehicles
and to the slow-moving vehicles specified in division (B) of this section
operating or traveling within the limits of the highway. Its use on slow-moving
vehicles being transported upon other types of vehicles or on any other type of
vehicle or stationary object on the highway is prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate any boat trailer,
farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-moving vehicle in division
(B) of this section, except those units designed to be completely mounted on a
primary power unit, which is manufactured or assembled on or after April 1,
1966, unless the vehicle is equipped with a slow-moving vehicle emblem mounting
device as specified in division (B) of this section.
      (2)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate on a street or highway
any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to operate at a
speed greater than 25 mph unless the unit displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem
as specified in division (B) of this section and a speed identification symbol
that meets the specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural
Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment: Speed
Identification Symbol (SIS).
   (E)   Any boat trailer, farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-
moving vehicle in division (B) of this section, in addition to the use of the
slow-moving vehicle emblem, and any unit of farm machinery that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 mph, in addition to the
display of a speed identification symbol, may be equipped with a red flashing
light that shall be visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the
rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. When a double-faced light is used, it shall display amber
light to the front and red light to the rear. In addition to the lights
described in this division (E), farm machinery and motor vehicles escorting
farm machinery may display a flashing, oscillating or rotating amber light, as
permitted by R.C. § 4513.17 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
and also may display simultaneously flashing turn signals or warning lights, as
permitted by that section.
   (F)   (1)   Every animal-drawn vehicle upon a street or highway shall at all
times be equipped in one of the following ways:
         (a)   With a slow-moving vehicle emblem complying with division (B) of
this section;
         (b)   With alternate reflective material complying with rules adopted
under division (F)(2) below; or
         (c)   With both a slow-moving vehicle emblem and alternate reflective
material as specified in division (F)(2) below.
      (2)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C.
Chapter 119, establishing standards and specifications for the position of
mounting of the alternate reflective material authorized by this division (F)
(2), permit, as a minimum, the alternate reflective material to be black, gray
or silver in color. The alternate reflective material shall be mounted on the
animal-drawn vehicle so as to be visible, at all times specified in R.C. §
4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps.
   (G)   (1)   Every unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 mph shall display a slow-
moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that meets the
specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification
Symbol (SIS) when the unit is operated upon a street or highway, irrespective
of the speed at which the unit is operated on the street or highway. The speed
identification symbol shall indicate the maximum speed in miles per hour at
which the unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
The display of the speed identification symbol shall be in accordance with the
standard prescribed in this division (G)(1).
      (2)   If an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 mph is being operated on a street or highway
at a speed greater than 25 mph and is towing, pulling or otherwise drawing a
unit of farm machinery, the unit of farm machinery shall display a slow-moving
vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that is the same as the speed
identification symbol that is displayed on the agricultural tractor.
   (H)   When an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 mph is being operated on a street or highway
at a speed greater than 25 mph, the operator shall possess some documentation
published or provided by the manufacturer indicating the maximum speed in miles
per hour at which the manufacturer designed the agricultural tractor to
operate.
   (I)   As used in this section, BOAT TRAILER means any vehicle designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 mph or less.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (J)   Lights and reflector requirements for multi-wheel agricultural
tractors or farm machinery.
      (1)   (a)   Every multi-wheel agricultural tractor whose model year was
2001 or earlier, when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, at a minimum shall be equipped with and display reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the
front and the rear; by amber reflectors, all visible to the front; and by red
reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   The lamps displaying amber light need not flash simultaneously
and need not flash in conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
         (c)   The lamps and reflectors required by division (J)(1)(a) of this
section and their placement shall meet standards and specifications contained
in rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119. The rules governing the amber lamps, amber reflectors and red
reflectors and their placement shall correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1 and 4.1.7.2, respectively, of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (2)   Every unit of farm machinery whose model year was 2002 or later,
when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be
equipped with and display markings and illuminated lamps that meet or exceed
the lighting, illumination and marking standards and specifications that are
applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit’s model year specified
in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.11
APR01, Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways, or any
subsequent revisions of that standard.
      (3)   The lights and reflectors required by division (J)(1) of this
section are in addition to the slow-moving vehicle emblem and lights required
or permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or 4513.17, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, to be displayed on farm machinery being operated or
traveling on a street or highway.
      (4)   No person shall operate any unit of farm machinery on a street or
highway or cause any unit of farm machinery to travel on a street or highway in
violation of divisions (J)(1) or (J)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.11(I), 4513.111(E))
§ 74.13  SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12)
§ 74.14  COWL, FENDER AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13)
§ 74.15  TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14)
§ 74.16  HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15)
§ 74.17  LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 mph.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16)
§ 74.18  NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
This prohibition does not apply to emergency vehicles, road service vehicles
servicing or towing a disabled vehicle, rural mail delivery vehicles, vehicles
as provided in R.C. § 4513.182 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, highway maintenance vehicles, funeral hearses, funeral escort
vehicles and similar equipment operated by the Department or local authorities,
which shall be equipped with and display, when used on a street or highway for
the special purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating or
rotating amber light, but shall not display a flashing, oscillating or rotating
light of any other color, nor to vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. §
4513.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to have a flashing
red light.
      (2)   When used on a street or highway, farm machinery and vehicles
escorting farm machinery may be equipped with and display a flashing,
oscillating or rotating amber light, and the prohibition contained in division
(C)(1) of this section does not apply to such machinery or vehicles. Farm
machinery may also display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.11 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E), or a school bus, no person shall operate, move or park upon or
permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public street or highway any
vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying a flashing red or a
flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating or rotating red
light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating light; and except
a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal
and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety vehicle when on duty,
no person shall operate, move or park upon or permit to stand within the right-
of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with,
or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue or a flashing
combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating blue light, or
a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B))
§ 74.19  STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18)
§ 74.20  FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.21  LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten or day-care center, while transporting preschool
children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is equipped
with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar attached to the
top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution – children,”
which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing lights in such a
manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind the vehicle. The
lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Director
of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.22  FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19)
§ 74.23  BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942; and
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 mph; and
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 mph.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.24  BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers or distributors of brake fluid selling such
fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake fluid
meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications, and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.25  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.105, as amended, and
49 C.F.R. § 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.26  HORNS, SIRENS AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21)
§ 74.27  MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22)
§ 74.28  REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23)
§ 74.29  WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals; and
         (b)   It does not conceal the vehicle identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals; and
         (b)   It is mounted not more than six inches below the upper edge of
the windshield and is outside the area swept by the vehicle’s windshield
wipers.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield. The device shall
be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be controlled or
operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24)
§ 74.30  SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.31  REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS
OR REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   As used in this section, SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of
glass so manufactured, fabricated or treated as substantially to prevent
shattering and flying of the glass when it is struck or broken, or such other
or similar product as may be approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition or windshield that
is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241  or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division (B), CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1),(B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K))
Statutory reference:
   Regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
   Recording and reporting violations, certain court requirements, see R.C. §
4513.241(L)
§ 74.32  DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   As used in this section, DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or
mechanical signal device capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn
either to the right or to the left and which shall be visible from both the
front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261)
§ 74.33  INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a seat safety belt
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate any passenger car, as
defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such construction,
design and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than 4,000 pounds
for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262)
Statutory reference:
   Child restraint systems, regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-37
§ 74.34  REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation:
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them; and
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.35  DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section.
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle; and
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle; and
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway and connecting, entering or exiting ramps
within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares, red
reflectors or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such vehicle
shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic occupied by
the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet
in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40 paces or approximately
100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors and flags to be displayed
as required in this section shall conform with the applicable requirements of
R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28)
§ 74.36  REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with § 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.37  STUDDED TIRES; SEASONAL USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 74.38  SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions.  As used in this section:
      BUS.
         (a)   Means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers that
meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver; or
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   The term does not include a church bus as defined in R.C. §
4503.07 or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   The term also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service; or
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01
(R.C. § 4513.50)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, on and after
July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being the
owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit the
operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety inspection
decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4513.52.
      (2)   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section
and R.C. § 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person’s place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during such operation.
(R.C. § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4513.51(D))
§ 74.39  AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
§ 74.40  AIR CLEANER REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle with an internal combustion
engine unless the carburetion system of the vehicle is protected with an air
filter, a flame arresting device or any other accepted method of protection
that is adequate for this purpose. If the original device or system is
replaced, it shall be replaced with one that is equal to or better than the
original equipment.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a person doing automotive repair work
on a motor vehicle that necessitates this device being removed while the work
is performed.
(1997 Code, § 74.38)
LOADS
§ 74.55  PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         (c)   For regional trips at distances of 150 miles or less from a
facility stated on the application as the applicant’s point of origin.
         (d)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a permit
issued by the Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may move the
vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any highway that
is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly within and
partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local authority
shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee or other
charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality. Permits may be issued for any period of time not to exceed
one year, as the local authority in its discretion determines advisable or for
the duration of any public construction project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
Statutory reference:
   Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see O.A.C.
Chapter 5501:2-1
§ 74.56  LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.57  ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand or
other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water
or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining
the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.58  TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery or other objects of structural nature which
cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 mph or less, and vehicles designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 mph or less, shall have
a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch mounted on the towing
vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials as provided in this section may be towed or
drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle; and
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal
or a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a
public highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site
where the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577 or to the nearest qualified repair facility.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or the civil liability
established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person towing or removing a vehicle in the
manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 74.59  WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
   (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state, and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall be
level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed one-quarter
inch per foot of the distance between such axles.
   (F)   In all determinations of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (G)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this chapter.
(R.C. § 4513.33)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of weight limits, approval of Director required, see R.C. §
4513.33
§ 74.60  OPERATION OF VEHICLE EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No traction engine, steam roller or other vehicle, load, object or
structure, whether propelled by muscular or motor power, not including vehicles
run upon stationary rails or tracks, fire engines, fire trucks or other
vehicles or apparatus belonging to or used by any municipal or volunteer Fire
Department in the discharge of its functions, shall be operated or moved over
or upon the improved public streets, highways, bridges or culverts in this
municipality upon wheels, rollers or otherwise, weighing in excess of the
weights prescribed in this subchapter or R.C. §§ 5577.01 et seq., including the
weight of the vehicle, object, structure or contrivance and load, except upon
special permission granted as provided by R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall
be fined $100, and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $130, and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $160, and in addition
thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to
gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in
this division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the
overload on any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the immediately
preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle
combination, is underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this
division (B)(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be
considered as one axle.
(R.C. § 5577.99(A))
§ 74.61  LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire.  No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels; and
         (b)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
 
Tire Width (in inches) Load Limit (in pounds)
3.5                    450
6 and over             650
 
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two-thirds the width so measured between the flanges;
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load; and
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires, or each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds; and
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) of this section, the
maximum gross weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined
by application of the following formula: W = 500[(LN/–1) + 12N + 36]
         (b)   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group
of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L equals the
distance in rounded whole feet between the extreme of any group of two or more
consecutive axles, and N equals the number of axles in the group under
consideration. However, two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross
load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, the weight
of vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds; and
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
         (c)   On any three successive load-bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three-axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   A weight of 48,000 pounds, with the total weight of the
vehicle and load not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for
each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle; and
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. of this section,
42,500 pounds, if part of a six-axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet
of spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of
the vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds
per each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) of this section, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900
pounds for each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of
the vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, the
maximum overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road
surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, TANDEM AXLE means two
or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel
transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96
inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section applies to the
weight of a vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a
part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, only the division that yields the
highest total gross vehicle weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle.
Once that division has been determined, only the limits contained in the
subdivisions of that division shall apply to that vehicle.
(R.C. § 5577.04)
   (C)   Axle and wheel load, gross weights and towing connection length for
solid rubber tires.
      (1)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when such vehicle is equipped with solid rubber
tires shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of such vehicle
shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by
division (A) of this section, nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other
resilient material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch
thick when measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
      (2)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective
vehicles to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet. If the provisions of this
division (C) are held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set
forth in the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958, 72 Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. § 127,
this division (C) shall become null and void to the extent of such
inconsistency.
(R.C. § 5577.041)
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be
punished as set forth in §
74.55(B).
   (E)   Modification of load limits.  The load limits established in this
section may be modified or waived upon special permission granted as provided
in R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
§ 74.62  MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width:
      (1)   In excess of 104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality;
      (2)   In excess of 102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and
such other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those
roads or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited
by order of the Director of Transportation;
      (3)   In excess of 132 inches for traction engines;
      (4)   In excess of 102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways; or
      (5)   In excess of 102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on
such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length:
      (1)   In excess of 66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through 306.54;
      (2)   In excess of 45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles;
      (3)   In excess of 53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state highways as
the Director designates;
      (4)   In excess of 28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated
in a commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates;
      (5)   (a)   In excess of 97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount; and
         (b)   In excess of 75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route or state route, not to exceed three
saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   In excess of 65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in divisions (C)(3) and (C)
(4) and in division (E) below;
      (7)   In excess of 45 feet for recreational vehicles; and
      (8)   In excess of 50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
Fire Department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
§ 74.63  STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, with intent
to defraud by misrepresentation thereon the weight of such goods of property to
be so transported.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer may
obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association,
including the owner, lessee or operator of such commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this state, a written
“statement of gross vehicle weight” showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement, and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
shall retain such statement of gross vehicle weight on his or her person, and
any law enforcement officer may request that such driver or operator exhibit it
to him or her. If, upon examining the statement of gross vehicle weight, the
law enforcement officer has reason to believe that the information contained
therein is correct in every respect, he or she shall indorse it with his or her
name and the date and place where it was exhibited to him or her. The law
enforcement officer may then permit such driver or operator to proceed without
weighing by a law enforcement officer. No person shall willfully issue a
written statement of gross vehicle weight and knowingly give any false
information in such statement.
(R.C. § 5577.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not more
than $5,000 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than six months,
or both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(D))
§ 74.64  WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction or other means of enclosure, then no such protectors
or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by fenders, bodies or
other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by protective means
extending at least to the centerline of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
§ 74.65  LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; PROSECUTION; APPLICATION OF MONIES.
   Any person violating any law relating to or regulating the use of the
improved public roads shall be liable for all damage resulting to any such
street, highway, bridge or culvert by reason of such violation. In case of any
injury to such street, highway, bridge or culvert, such damages shall be
collected by civil action for recovery of such damages brought by the proper
authorities of the municipality. All damages collected under this section shall
be paid into the treasury of the municipality and credited to any fund for the
repairs of streets, highways, roads, bridges or culverts.
(R.C. § 5577.12)
§ 74.66  WEIGHT EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COAL TRUCK.  Means a truck transporting coal from the site where it is
mined when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      FARM COMMODITIES.  Includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans, tobacco
and wheat.
      FARM MACHINERY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      FARM TRUCK.  Means a truck used in the transportation from a farm of farm
commodities when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      LOG TRUCK.  Means a truck used in the transportation of timber from the
site of its cutting when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      SOLID WASTE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3743.01.
      SOLID WASTE HAUL VEHICLE.  Means a vehicle hauling solid waste for which
a bill of lading has not been issued.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the
described conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be imposed:
         (a)   A coal truck transporting coal, from the place of production to
the first point of delivery where title to the coal is transferred;
         (b)   A farm truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities,
from the place of production to the first point of delivery where the
commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is transferred;
         (c)   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred; and
         (d)   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place
of production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed
of or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of
this section and operated under the conditions described in that division does
not exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
does not exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than
7.5%, no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (C)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceeds the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to
the allowance provided by this division (B) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; and
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to the operation of
a farm truck, log truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during
the months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (B) of this
section does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the
following:
         (a)   A highway that is part of the interstate system; or
         (b)   A highway, road or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09 or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.042)
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the described
conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         (a)   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         (b)   The place where title to the minerals is transferred; and
         (c)   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged;
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged;
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery; and
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to first point where the product is transferred.
   (F)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this
section and operated under the conditions described in that division do not
exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01
to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and do not
exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%, no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (G)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceed the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(E) or (F) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to the
allowance provided by division (E) or (F) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; and
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (H)   Divisions (E) and (F) of this section do not apply to the operation of
a vehicle listed in division (E) of this section on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system; or
      (2)   A highway, road or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09 or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.043)
§ 74.67  USE OF LOCAL STREETS; LOCAL PERMIT AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Use of local streets.  No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a
size as specified in §
74.62 or exceeding a gross weight of five tons upon Old Boston Road and any
street in the municipality other than a state route, except those local streets
designated as a truck route and marked as such by appropriate traffic signs,
and except when such operation is necessary to load or unload property, to go
to or from the usual place of storage of such vehicle or to perform any other
legitimate business or act other than passage through the municipality.
Operators of vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a designated
truck route within the municipality shall confine such deviation to that
required in order to accomplish the purpose of the departure.
   (B)   Local permit and conditions.
      (1)   Upon application and for good cause, the Police Chief may issue a
local permit authorizing an applicant to move an oversize or overweight vehicle
or combination of vehicles upon local streets.
      (2)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Ohio Director of Transportation for the movement of the vehicle or combination
of vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction; however, the
approval of the Ohio Director of Transportation shall be required for movement
upon state routes as provided in §
74.55.
      (3)   The Police Chief may grant a permit for a single or round trip, or
for such period of time, not to exceed one year, as the Police Chief in his or
her discretion deems advisable, or for the duration of any construction
project. The Police Chief may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for such vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route,
hours, speed or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety. The Police Chief
may require the posting of bond or other security necessary to compensate for
any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (4)   For each such permit, the Police Chief shall charge $5, and for
each hour of time or any part thereof spent by each police officer in
supervising the movement of such vehicle, the applicant shall pay the sum of
$10.
      (5)   Signs shall be posted indicating “no thru trucks - gross weight
five tons” or words of similar import to apprise drivers of the limitations
imposed by this section. No driver shall disobey the instructions indicated on
any such sign.
      (6)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms or conditions of the
permit granted by the Police Chief shall be cause for immediate revocation or
suspension of such permit, and denial of request for any such permit within one
year from the date of violation. Such violation shall also subject the violator
to the penalty prescribed by §
70.99.
(1997 Code, § 74.61)  (Ord. 611-78, passed 11-13-1978; Ord. 688-82, passed 4-
12-1982)
Cross-reference:
   Permit required to exceed load limits, see §
74.55
Statutory reference:
   Authority to issue permits, see R.C. § 4513.34
CHAPTER 75:  BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, SNOWMOBILES AND ALL PURPOSE VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Bicycles; application of Title VII
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles and snowmobiles
   
75.04   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.05   Riding bicycles; motorcycles abreast
   
75.06   Equipment of bicycles
   
75.07   Parking of bicycle
   
75.08   Reckless operation
Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles and All-Purpose Vehicles
   
75.25   Definitions
   
75.26   Equipment
   
75.27   Code application; prohibited operation
   
75.28   Permitted operation
   
75.29   Licensing requirements of operator
   
75.30   Maintenance of vehicles for hire
   
75.31   Accident reports
   
75.32   Impounding of vehicle
   
75.33   Local control within police power
   
75.34   Registration of vehicles
   
75.35   Certificate of title; prohibitions
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)
(8)
   Protective eye devices required for motorcycle operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01  BICYCLES; APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles apply
whenever a bicycle is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
who violates any provisions of this title described in division (A) of this
section that is applicable to bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation or
summons by a law enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as
the operator of a motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person
who commits any such violation while operating a bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator or by a motor vehicle operator when the trier of
fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle operator endangered the
lives of bicycle riders at the time of the violation, the court,
notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code to the contrary, may
require the bicycle operator or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully
complete a bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in
lieu of any penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio
Revised Code for that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
§ 75.02  OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section;
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order;
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror; and
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued, but in no event shall
any motorized bicycle license be issued for a period longer than four years.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Each probationary motorized bicycle license or motorized bicycle
license shall be laminated with a transparent plastic material.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A), (D) or (E) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 75.03  RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   As used in this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given that
term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or carry any other
person upon such bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat
thereon, and no person shall ride upon a bicycle other than upon such a firmly
attached and regular seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or
article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the
handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle or motorcycle shall be used to carry more persons at one
time than the number for which it is designed and equipped, nor shall any
motorcycle be operated on a highway when the handlebars or grips are more than
15 inches higher than the seat or saddle for the operator.  No motorcycle shall
be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher than the shoulders of
the operator when the operator is seated in the operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(2) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a United States Department of Transportation-approved protective helmet
on the person’s head, and no other person shall be a passenger on a motorcycle
operated by such a person unless similarly wearing a protective helmet. The
helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device shall conform with rules
adopted by the Director of Public Safety. The provisions of this paragraph or a
violation thereof shall not be used in the trial of any civil action.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person
operating a cab-enclosed motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in
place enclosing the occupants.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the
person, at the time of such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a
protective helmet that has been approved by the United States Department of
Transportation that conforms with rules adopted by the Director.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the following
circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (E), whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(3) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(3) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53)
§ 75.04  PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle to attach the same or self
to any vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.54)
§ 75.05  RIDING BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle
or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles or motorcycles upon a roadway shall ride not
more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths or parts of roadways
set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle to ride at
the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to do so. Conditions
that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway include when
necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, surface
hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do so, including if
the lane is too narrow for the bicycle and an overtaking vehicle to travel
safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.55)
§ 75.06  EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with the
following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or the operator
that shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to
the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-powered lamp that emits light
only when the bicycle is moving may be used to meet this requirement;
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle; and
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle and white lamps and
white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of giving an audible
signal, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person
use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate brake when used on a
street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (E), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
§ 75.07  PARKING OF BICYCLE.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a sidewalk in such a manner so as to
unduly interfere with pedestrian traffic or upon a roadway so as to unduly
interfere with vehicular traffic.
(1997 Code, § 75.07)
§ 75.08  RECKLESS OPERATION.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (A)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
   (B)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (C)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law;
   (D)   Without both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give
the required hand and arm signals, or as provided in §
75.03(B)(5); or
   (E)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
(1997 Code, § 75.08)
SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 75.25  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE.  Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all-terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes. The term
does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any vehicle
principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft required to be
registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any vehicle
excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   DEALER.  Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER.  A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under R.C. § 4519.511.
   ELECTRONIC RECORD.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   HIGHWAY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY.  Any part of the interstate system of highways as
defined in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY OR FREEWAY.  Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
5511.02.
   MINI-TRUCK. A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an electric
motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less,
has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a
seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE.  Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. § 4511.01,
that is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or
highway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER.  Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having title
to a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or other right
to the possession thereof.
   SNOWMOBILE.  Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow
or ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   STREET.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01)
§ 75.26  EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles and all-purpose vehicles
shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the following
items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying such
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 mph, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment specified
in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section shall not be required on
snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles or all-purpose vehicles operated during
the daylight hours.
(R.C. § 4519.20(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, lease, rent or otherwise furnish
for hire in this municipality any new snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any rule adopted by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4519.20 after the effective date of the
rule.
(R.C. § 4519.22(A))
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), whoever
violates division (B) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the
offender within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of
division (B) of this section or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division
(B) of this section shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100,
imprisoned not more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20(C))
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), whoever violates
division (C) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (C)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.22(A), whoever violates this section shall be
fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three
days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.22(B))
§ 75.27  CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (A)   The applicable provisions of this Traffic Code shall be applied to the
operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles and all-purpose vehicles,
except that no snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle shall
be operated as follows:
      (1)   On any street, highway, limited access highway or freeway or the
right-of-way thereof, except for emergency travel only during such time and in
such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety or local authority having
jurisdiction shall designate, and except as provided in §
75.28;
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than three nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.40)
§ 75.28  PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles and all-purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (A)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (B)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over such highways so permits;
   (C)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (D)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits such operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane; and
   (E)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
(R.C. § 4519.41)
§ 75.29  LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (B)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (A) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on
state controlled land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than 16
years of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed
driver 18 years of age or older.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.44)
§ 75.30  MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Any dealer who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle for hire shall maintain the vehicle
in safe operating condition. No dealer, or agent or employee of a dealer, shall
rent, lease or otherwise furnish a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle for hire to any person who does not hold a license as required
by R.C. § 4519.44(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or to
any person whom the dealer or an agent or employee of the dealer has reasonable
cause to believe is incompetent to operate the vehicle in a safe and lawful
manner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
(R.C. § 4519.45)
§ 75.31  ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46)
§ 75.32  IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever a person is found guilty of operating a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle in violation of any rule authorized
to be adopted under R.C. § 4519.21 or 4519.42, the trial judge of any court of
record, in addition to or independent of any other penalties provided by law,
may impound for not less than 60 days the certificate of registration and
license plate, if applicable, of that snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle. The court shall send the impounded certificate of
registration and license plate, if applicable, to the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles, who shall retain the certificate of registration and license plate,
if applicable, until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
   (B)   If a court impounds the certificate of registration and license plate
of an all-purpose vehicle pursuant to R.C. § 2911.21, the court shall send the
impounded certificate of registration and license plate to the Registrar, who
shall retain them until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
(R.C. § 4519.47)
§ 75.33  LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle and all-purpose
vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under municipal
jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power, except
that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under R.C. Chapter 4519
shall be required.
(R.C. § 4519.48)
§ 75.34  REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in divisions (B), (C) and (D) of this
section, no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with
R.C. §§ 4519.03 and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck that is
operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.215 and R.C. § 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. This division (A)(2) shall take effect on January 1, 2017.
   (B)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(B)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
   (C)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of
a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519 shall comply
with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (D)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (E)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapter 1547 and R.C.
Chapter 1548 relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02)
Statutory reference:
   Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of
address; loss of certificate, see R.C. § 4519.05
   Registration of emergency vehicles, see R.C. § 4519.08
   Registration procedure, see R.C. § 4519.03
   Temporary license placards and fees, see R.C. § 4519.10
   Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see R.C. § 4519.09
§ 75.35  CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a court of common pleas;
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle is a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a court of
common pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. §§ 4519.51 through 4519.70 for which
no penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections; or
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66)
Statutory reference:
   Certificate of title: rules and procedures, see R.C. §§ 4519.51 et seq.
   Stolen vehicles and restrictions on sale or transfer, felony provisions, see
R.C. § 4519.67
CHAPTER 76:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.06   Parking on private property in violation of posted prohibition
   
76.07   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
   
76.08   Truck loading zones
   
76.09   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.10   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
76.11   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
76.12   Waiver
   
76.13   Manner of angle parking
   
76.14   Maximum consecutive hours parking permitted
   
76.15   Parking or storing trailers and recreational vehicles on residential
streets prohibited
   
76.16   Parking or storing trucks on residential streets prohibited
Parking on Public Streets and Public Parking Lots
   
76.30   Definitions
   
76.31   Parking within lines of space
   
76.32   Parking restrictions
   
76.33   Parking prohibited by officer
Administration and Enforcement
   
76.45   Parking Violations Bureau establishment
Cross-reference:
   Unclaimed and abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 98
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
   Noncriminal parking infractions, local option to create, see R.C. Chapter
4521
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 76.01  PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66)
§ 76.02  CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle shall not apply to an emergency vehicle or a public safety
vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661)
§ 76.03  POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
§ 76.04  PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except a bicycle;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic-control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle; or
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway or thruway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68)
§ 76.05  PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free-moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in division (C)(2) of
this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair or removal of
facilities near, on, over or under a street or highway, may stop, stand or park
where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on duty
or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the Director
of Transportation.
   (E)   Special parking locations and privileges for persons with disabilities
that limit or impair the ability to walk, also known as handicapped parking
spaces or disability parking spaces, shall be provided and designated by all
political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and instrumentalities
thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is provided, whether owned,
rented or leased, and at all publicly owned parking garages. The locations
shall be designated through the posting of an elevated sign, whether
permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international symbol of
access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators and ramps.
All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division (E) and R.C. §
3781.111(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance from
the ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five
feet. If a new sign or a replacement sign designating a special parking
location is posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed
upon the surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice
that states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in
the special designated parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle at special
parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at special
clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned parking
lots, parking garages or other parking areas and designated in accordance with
that division, unless one of the following applies:
         (a)   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special license plates; or
         (b)   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
handicapped person and is displaying a parking card or special handicapped
license plates.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in a special marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a) or (F)(1)(b) of this section may be
towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law enforcement
agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or removed shall
not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of ownership of the
motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the
municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor vehicle is a
leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the lessee
presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and pays all
towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for towing and
storing motor vehicles.
      (3)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a) or
(F)(1)(b) of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that the
person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the person
was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the person
meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or a temporary removable windshield
placard or special license plates, or when a motor vehicle is being operated by
or for the transport of a handicapped person, and is displaying a parking card
or special handicapped license plates, the motor vehicle is permitted to park
for a period of two hours in excess of the legal parking period permitted by
local authorities, except where local ordinances or police rules provide
otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in such a manner as to be clearly a
traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility or parking garage where special
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the special parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the special
locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or movable
signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or special license
plates if the parking card or special license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      HANDICAPPED PERSON.  Means any person who has lost the use of one or both
legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf or so severely handicapped as to
be unable to move without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose
mobility is restricted by a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary or other
handicapping condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
      SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD.  Mean any
license plates or removable windshield placard or temporary removable
windshield placard issued under R.C. § 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any
substantially equivalent license plates or removable windshield placard or
temporary removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country or
sovereignty.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a) or (F)(1)(b) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
divisions (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a) or (F)(1)(b) of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a) or (F)(1)(b) of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a) of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or special license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a) of this section; or
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or special
handicapped license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person
neglected to display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)
(b) of this section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a) or
(F)(1)(b) be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a) or
(F)(1)(b) of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need not be
reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries
contained in any application for employment, license or other right or
privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The Clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
division (K)(2) of this section to the municipality. Except as provided in
division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the fine monies it
receives under division (K)(2) of this section to pay the expenses it incurs in
complying with the signage and notice requirements contained in division (E) of
this section. The municipality may use up to 50% of each fine it receives under
division (K)(2) of this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy,
support and assistive technology programs for persons with disabilities, and
for public improvements within the municipality that benefit or assist persons
with disabilities, if governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer
the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(3) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning; and
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69)
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
   Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.06  PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF POSTED PROHIBITION.
   (A)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent; or
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681)
Cross-reference:
   Towing from private property, requirements, see §
98.01
§ 76.07  SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
§ 76.08  TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
§ 76.09  BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of such
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (D)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
§ 76.10  PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic-
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
§ 76.11  REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing such fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of such
ownership.
§ 76.12  WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. Such payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for such alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearance.
§ 76.13  MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
   Upon streets where angle parking is permitted, no person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadways
as indicated by appropriate signs or markings.
(1997 Code, § 76.08)
§ 76.14  MAXIMUM CONSECUTIVE HOURS PARKING PERMITTED.
   No person shall park any motor vehicle, truck or trailer on any street,
alley, parking lot or public way in the village for more than 18 consecutive
hours or more than three consecutive hours on Main Street between 6:00 a.m. and
6:00 p.m.
(1997 Code, § 76.13)  (Ord. 787-89, passed 5-24-1989; Ord. 1243-12, passed 6-4-
2012)
§ 76.15  PARKING OR STORING TRAILERS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES ON RESIDENTIAL
STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Upon any public street in a residential district, no person shall
park, store or leave standing any trailer or recreational vehicle.
   (B)   In the construction of this section, the following definitions shall
control:
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  Any vehicle licensed as a recreational vehicle,
which is a portable structure designed and constructed to be used as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses, and may be
classed as follows:
         (a)   Travel trailer. A nonself-propelled recreational vehicle not
exceeding an overall length of 35 feet, exclusive of bumper and tongue or
coupling, and includes a tent type fold out camping trailer;
         (b)   Motor home. A self-propelled recreational vehicle constructed
with permanently installed facilities for cold storage, cooking and consuming
food, and for sleeping;
         (c)   Truck camper. A nonself-propelled recreational vehicle with or
without wheels for road use, and designed to be placed upon and attach to a
motor vehicle. Truck camper does not include truck covers which consist of
walls and roof but do not have floors and facilities for using same as a
dwelling;
         (d)   Inboard or outboard motor boats; and
         (e)   Sail boats.
      TRAILER.  Any vehicle licensed as a trailer, without motive power
designed or used for carrying property or persons wholly on its own structure
and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including any such vehicle when formed
by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a vehicle of the dolly
type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, and a vehicle used to
transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials between a
local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or towed on a public
street or highway at a speed greater than 25 mph, except a house trailer.
      HOUSE TRAILER.  Any vehicle licensed as a house trailer, which is a
nonself-propelled vehicle so designed, constructed or added to by means of
accessories in such manner as will permit the use and occupancy thereof for
human habitation when connected to indicated utilities whether resting on
wheels, jacks or other temporary foundation and used or so constructed as to
permit its being conveyed upon public streets or highways.
(1997 Code, § 76.14)
§ 76.16  PARKING OR STORING TRUCKS ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Upon any public street in a residential district, no person shall
park, store or leave standing any truck.
   (B)   TRUCK as used in this section means any vehicle licensed as a
commercial motor vehicle.
(1997 Code, § 76.15)
PARKING ON PUBLIC STREETS AND PUBLIC PARKING LOTS
§ 76.30  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKING SPACE.  A space on a public street or parking lot designated for the
parking of a single vehicle by marked lines on the curb or paved surface of the
road or parking lot or by a parking curb, a barrier or a sign. A sign may be
posted setting time limits or other conditions for parking.
(1997 Code, § 76.25)  (Ord. 1243-12, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 76.31  PARKING WITHIN LINES OF SPACE.
   No person shall park a vehicle in a parking space such that the vehicle
shall exceed the limits designated by marked lines, barriers or posted
restrictions.
(Ord. 1243-12, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 76.32  PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Village Administrator may impose and post such parking rules and
restrictions as are necessary or convenient to the efficient and effective
management of parking on village roadways and in village parking lots.
(Ord. 1243-12, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 76.33  PARKING PROHIBITED BY OFFICER.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this subchapter, no person shall park in a
parking space when otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter or
when parking is prohibited by properly posted signs.
(Ord. 1243-12, passed 6-4-2012)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 76.45  PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The village wishes to establish a Parking Violations Bureau to handle
all parking infractions within the village pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4521. The
purpose of this section is to formalize the village’s request to the county
municipal court to establish a Parking Violations Bureau pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4521.
   (B)   The Village Mayor and Solicitor are hereby authorized to prepare and
present any documents which are necessary to establish a Parking Violations
Bureau.
   (C)   The effective date of the Parking Violations Bureau shall be January
1, 1992.
(1997 Code, § 76.40)  (Ord. 828-91, passed 12-9-1991)
CHAPTER 77:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
      
II.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I.  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Traffic shall travel only in the direction indicated in the following
locations:
 
Street         Location            Direction Ord. No.       Date Passed
Eighth Street  From Wood Street to Northerly 655-80; 671-81 12-8-1980; 4-13-
               Kilgore Street                               1981
Kilgore Street From Sixth Street   Westerly  655-80; 671-81 12-8-1980; 4-13-
               to Eighth Street                             1981
Seventh Street From Wood Street to Northerly 655-80; 671-81 12-8-1980; 4-13-
               Kilgore Street                               1981
 
(1997 Code, Ch. 77, Sch. I)
SCHEDULE II.  SPEED LIMITS.
   Speed limits shall be as follows in the locations listed below:
 
Street                    Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Old South Riverside Drive 25 mph      889-95   6-26-1995
 
(1997 Code, Ch. 77, Sch. II)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS AND FOWL
      
91.   UNION CEMETERY
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
      
93.   INTOXICATING LIQUORS
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   RAILROADS
      
96.   SHADE TREES
      
97.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
98.   UNCLAIMED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
Animals Running at Large
   
90.01   Dogs or other animals running at large; nuisance, dangerous or vicious
dogs; hearings
   
90.02   Confining animal found at large; publication of notice; lien
   
90.03   Unavoidable escapes
   
90.04   Fees
   
90.05   Rabies quarantine orders of Mayor
   
90.06   Interfering with enforcement of quarantine orders
   
90.07   Dogs may be killed for certain acts
   
90.08   Impounding and disposition; records
   
90.09   Annual registration of dogs; tags required
Offenses Relating to Animals
   
90.20   Abandoning animals
   
90.21   Injuring animals
   
90.22   Poisoning animals
   
90.23   Cruelty to animals; cruelty to companion animals
   
90.24   Animal fights
   
90.25   Trapshooting
   
90.26   Loud dog
   
90.27   Dog tags
   
90.28   Nuisance, dangerous and vicious dog defined; transfer of ownership
certificate; form stating dog’s prior behavior
   
90.29   Failure to register dog or dog kennel
   
90.30   Hindering the capture of unregistered dog
   
90.31   Unlawful tag
   
90.32   Rights of blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person,
or trainer with assistance dog
   
90.33   Retail sale and transportation of dogs
   
90.34   Coloring rabbits or baby poultry; regulation of sale and display
   
90.35   Jacklighting prohibited
   
90.36   Restrictions on dog ownership for certain convicted felons
   
90.37   Nuisance conditions prohibited
   
90.38   Animal bites; reports and quarantine
   
90.39   Hunting prohibited
   
90.40   Birds
   
90.41   Keeping of animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Assaulting police dog, horse or assistance dog, see §
136.15
   Dead animals, improper disposal as nuisance, see §
94.23
   Nuisances, see §
94.03
Statutory reference:
   Hunting and fishing regulations, see R.C. Chapter 1533
   Law enforcement canine registration, see R.C. § 955.012
   Nuisance wild animal trapping, see O.A.C. § 1501:31-15-03
   Possession of dangerous wild animals and restricted snakes, requirements and
licensing, see R.C. Chapter 935
   Rabies: report of dog bite, confinement of animal, report of suspected rabid
animal, see O.A.C. §§ 3701-3-28 et seq.
ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE
§ 90.01  DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; NUISANCE, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS
DOGS; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Animals running at large.
      (1)   No person, who is the owner or keeper of horses, mules, cattle,
bison, sheep, goats, swine, llamas, alpacas or geese, shall permit them to run
at large in the public road, highway, street, lane or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or cause the animals to be herded, kept or detained for the purpose of
grazing on premises other than those owned or lawfully occupied by the owner or
keeper of the animals.
(R.C. § 951.02)
      (2)   Whoever recklessly violates division (A)(1) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 951.99)
      (3)   The owner or keeper of an animal described in division (A)(1) of
this section who negligently permits it to run at large in violation of
division (A)(1) of this section is liable for all damages resulting from
injury, death or loss to person or property caused by the animal in any of the
places specified in division (A)(1) of this section or upon the premises of
another without reference to the fence that may enclose the premises.
      (4)   The running at large of any animal specified in division (A)(1) of
this section in or upon any of the places specified in division (A)(1) of this
section is prima facie evidence in a civil action for damages under division
(A)(3) of this section that the owner or keeper of the animal negligently
permitted the animal to run at large in violation of division (A)(1) of this
section.
(R.C. § 951.10)
   (B)   Dogs running at large; dangerous dogs; debarked or surgically silenced
dangerous dogs.
      (1)   As used in this division (B), DANGEROUS DOG has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 955.11.
      (2)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any female dog shall permit it to
go beyond the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer at any time the dog is
in heat unless the dog is properly in leash.
      (3)   Except when a dog is lawfully engaged in hunting and accompanied by
the owner, keeper, harborer or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper or harborer
of any dog shall fail at any time to do either of the following:
         (a)   Keep the dog physically confined or restrained upon the premises
of the owner, keeper or harborer by a leash, tether, adequate fence,
supervision or secure enclosure to prevent escape; or
         (b)   Keep the dog under the reasonable control of some person.
      (4)   Except when a dangerous dog is lawfully engaged in hunting or
training for the purpose of hunting and is accompanied by the owner, keeper,
harborer or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper or harborer of a dangerous dog
shall fail to do either of the following:
         (a)   While the dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper or
harborer, securely confine it at all times in a locked pen that has a top,
locked fenced yard or other locked enclosure that has a top; or
         (b)   While the dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper or
harborer, keep that dog on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than
six feet in length and additionally do at least one of the following: keep the
dog in a locked pen that has a top, locked fenced yard or other locked
enclosure that has a top; have the leash or tether controlled by a person who
is of suitable age and discretion or securely attach, tie or affix the leash or
tether to the ground or a stationary object or fixture so that the dog is
adequately restrained and station a person in close enough proximity to that
dog so as to prevent it from causing injury to any person; or muzzle that dog.
      (5)   No person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or
more violations of division (B)(3) of this section involving the same dog and
no owner, keeper or harborer of a dangerous dog shall fail to do the following:
         (a)   Obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write
liability insurance in this state providing coverage in each occurrence because
of damage or bodily injury to or death of a person caused by the dangerous dog
if so ordered by a court and provide proof of that liability insurance upon
request to any law enforcement officer, county dog warden or public health
official charged with enforcing this section;
         (b)   Obtain a dangerous dog registration certificate from the County
Auditor pursuant to division (B)(9) of this section, affix a tag that
identifies the dog as a dangerous dog to the dog’s collar, and ensure that the
dog wears the collar and tag at all times; or
         (c)   Notify the local dog warden immediately if any of the following
occurs:
            1.   The dog is loose or unconfined;
            2.   The dog bites a person, unless the dog is on the property of
the owner of the dog, and the person who is bitten is unlawfully trespassing or
committing a criminal act within the boundaries of that property; and
            3.   The dog attacks another animal while the dog is off the
property of the owner of the dog.
         (d)   If the dog is sold, given to another person or dies, notify the
County Auditor within ten days of the sale, transfer or death.
      (6)   No person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Debark or surgically silence a dog that the person knows or has
reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
         (b)   Possess a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced; or
         (c)   Falsely attest on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian
under division (B)(7) of this section that the person’s dog is not a dangerous
dog or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
      (7)   Before a veterinarian debarks or surgically silences a dog, the
veterinarian may give the owner of the dog a written waiver form that attests
that the dog is not a dangerous dog. The written waiver form shall include all
of the following:
         (a)   The veterinarian’s license number and current business address;
         (b)   The number of the license of the dog if the dog is licensed;
         (c)   A reasonable description of the age, coloring and gender of the
dog as well as any notable markings on the dog;
         (d)   The signature of the owner of the dog attesting that the owner’s
dog is not a dangerous dog; and
         (e)   A statement that R.C. § 955.22(F) prohibits any person from
doing any of the following:
            1.   Debarking or surgically silencing a dog that the person knows
or has reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
            2.   Possessing a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason
to believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced; and
            3.   Falsely attesting on a waiver form provided by the
veterinarian under R.C. § 955.22(G) that the person’s dog is not a dangerous
dog or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
      (8)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of division
(B)(6) of this section that the veterinarian who is charged with the violation
obtained, prior to debarking or surgically silencing the dog, a written waiver
form that complies with division (B)(7) of this section and that attests that
the dog is not a dangerous dog.
      (9)   (a)   The County Auditor shall issue a dangerous dog registration
certificate to a person who is the owner of a dog, who is 18 years of age or
older, and who provides the following to the County Auditor:
            1.   A fee of $50;
            2.   The person’s address, phone number and other appropriate means
for the local dog warden or County Auditor to contact the person; and
            3.   With respect to the person and the dog for which the
registration is sought, all of the following:
               a.   Either satisfactory evidence of the dog’s current rabies
vaccination or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that a rabies
vaccination is medically contraindicated for the dog;
               b.   Either satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has
been neutered or spayed or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that
neutering or spaying of the dog is medically contraindicated;
               c.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the person has
posted and will continue to post clearly visible signs at the person’s
residence warning both minors and adults of the presence of a dangerous dog on
the property; and
               d.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
permanently identified by means of a microchip and the dog’s microchip number.
         (b)   Upon the issuance of a dangerous dog registration certificate to
the owner of a dog, the County Auditor shall provide the owner with a uniformly
designed tag that identifies the animal as a dangerous dog. The owner shall
renew the certificate annually for the same fee and in the same manner as the
initial certificate was obtained. If a certificate holder relocates to a new
county, the certificate holder shall follow the procedure in division (B)(9)
(c)2. of this section and, upon the expiration of the certificate issued in the
original county, shall renew the certificate in the new county.
         (c)   1.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within the
same county, the owner shall provide notice of the new address to the County
Auditor within ten days of relocating to the new address.
            2.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within
another county, the owner shall do both of the following within ten days of
relocating to the new address:
               a.   Provide written notice of the new address and a copy of the
original dangerous dog registration certificate to the County Auditor of the
new county; and
               b.   Provide written notice of the new address to the County
Auditor of the county where the owner previously resided.
         (d)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall present the dangerous dog
registration certificate upon being requested to do so by any law enforcement
officer, dog warden or public health official charged with enforcing this
section.
(R.C. § 955.22)
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   The municipal court or county court that has territorial
jurisdiction over the residence of the owner, keeper or harborer of a dog shall
conduct any hearing concerning the designation of the dog as a nuisance dog,
dangerous dog or vicious dog.
      (2)   If a person who is authorized to enforce this chapter has
reasonable cause to believe that a dog in the person’s jurisdiction is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog or vicious dog, the person shall notify the owner,
keeper or harborer of that dog, by certified mail or in person, of both of the
following:
         (a)   That the person has designated the dog a nuisance dog, dangerous
dog or vicious dog, as applicable; and
         (b)   That the owner, keeper or harborer of the dog may request a
hearing regarding the designation in accordance with this division (C). The
notice shall include instructions for filing a request for a hearing in the
county in which the dog’s owner, keeper or harborer resides.
      (3)   If the owner, keeper or harborer of the dog disagrees with the
designation of the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog or vicious dog, as
applicable, the owner, keeper or harborer, not later than ten days after
receiving notification of the designation, may request a hearing regarding the
determination. The request for a hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the municipal court or county court that has territorial jurisdiction over
the residence of the dog’s owner, keeper or harborer. At the hearing, the
person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog or vicious dog
has the burden of proving, by clear and convincing evidence, that the dog is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog or vicious dog. The owner, keeper or harborer of
the dog or the person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog
or vicious dog may appeal the court’s final determination as in any other case
filed in that court.
      (4)   A court, upon motion of an owner, keeper or harborer or an attorney
representing the owner, keeper or harborer, may order that the dog designated
as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog or vicious dog be held in the possession of
the owner, keeper or harborer until the court makes a final determination under
this section or during the pendency of an appeal, as applicable. Until the
court makes a final determination and during the pendency of any appeal, the
dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions of
division (B)(4) that apply to dangerous dogs regardless of whether the dog has
been designated as a vicious dog or a nuisance dog rather than a dangerous dog.
The owner, keeper or harborer of the dog shall not be required to comply with
any other requirements established in this Code or the Ohio Revised Code that
concern a nuisance dog, dangerous dog or vicious dog, as applicable, until the
court makes a final determination and during the pendency of any appeal.
      (5)   If a dog is finally determined under this division (C), or on
appeal as described in this division (C), to be a vicious dog, §
90.28(D) and divisions (B)(4) to (B)(9) of this section apply with respect to
the dog and the owner, keeper or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a
dangerous dog, and §
90.36 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog, and the
court shall issue an order that specifies that those provisions apply with
respect to the dog and the owner, keeper or harborer in that manner. As part of
the order, the court shall require the owner, keeper or harborer to obtain the
liability insurance required under division (B)(5)(a) in an amount described in
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
      (6)   As used in this division (C), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.222)
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (B)(3) of this section that involves a dog that is not a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog or vicious dog shall be fined not less than $25 or
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 or more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(1)(a) of
this section, if the offender is guilty of a violation of division (B)(2) of
this section or a violation of division (B)(3) of this section that involves a
dog that is not a nuisance dog, dangerous dog or vicious dog, the court may
order the offender to personally supervise the dog that the offender owns,
keeps or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience training, or to
do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a nuisance dog is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the
first offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent
offense involving the same dog. Upon a person being convicted of or pleading
guilty to a third violation of division (B)(3) of this section involving the
same dog, the court shall require the offender to register the involved dog as
a dangerous dog.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, if a violation of division (B)(3) of this section involves a
nuisance dog, the court may order the offender to personally supervise the
nuisance dog that the offender owns, keeps or harbors, to cause that dog to
complete dog obedience training, or to do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(F))
      (3)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this section that
involves a dangerous dog, or a violation of division (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and of a
misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense. Additionally, the
court may order the offender to personally supervise the dangerous dog that the
offender owns, keeps or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience
training, or to do both, and the court may order the offender to obtain
liability insurance pursuant to division (B)(5) of this section. The court, in
the alternative, may order the dangerous dog to be humanely destroyed by a
licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden or the county humane society at
the owner’s expense. With respect to a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a dangerous dog, until the court makes a final
determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of that
division and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or
restrained in accordance with division (B)(4) of this section or at the county
dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(G))
      (4)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a vicious dog is guilty of one of the following:
            1.   A felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the
dog kills or seriously injures a person. Additionally, the court shall order
that the vicious dog be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the
county dog warden or the county humane society at the owner’s expense; or
            2.   A misdemeanor of the first degree if the dog causes serious
injury to a person. Additionally, the court may order the vicious dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden or the
county humane society at the owner’s expense.
         (b)   If the court does not order the vicious dog to be destroyed
under division (D)(4)(a)2. of this section, the court shall issue an order that
specifies that §
90.28(D) and divisions (B)(4) to (B)(9) of this section apply with respect to
the dog and the owner, keeper or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a
dangerous dog and that §
90.36 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog. As part of
the order, the court shall order the offender to obtain the liability insurance
required under division (B)(5)(a) of this section in an amount, exclusive of
interest and costs, that equals or exceeds $100,000. Until the court makes a
final determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section and at the discretion of the dog warden, the
dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions described
in division (B)(4) of this section or at the county dog pound at the owner’s
expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(H))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(J))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b) or (B)(6)(c) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Additionally, the court shall order that the dog involved in the violation be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden or the
county humane society. Until the court makes a final determination and during
the pendency of any appeal of a violation of division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b) or
(B)(6)(c) of this section and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog
shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions of division
(B)(4) of this section or at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(L))
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(a), (B)(5)(c) or (B)(5)(d) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(M))
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(9)(d) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(N))
      (9)   (a)   If a dog is confined at the county dog pound pursuant to
division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(6) of this section, the county dog warden shall
give written notice of the confinement to the owner of the dog. If the county
dog warden is unable to give the notice to the owner of the dog, the county dog
warden shall post the notice on the door of the residence of the owner of the
dog or in another conspicuous place on the premises at which the dog was
seized. The notice shall include a statement that a security in the amount of
$100 is due to the county dog warden within ten days to secure payment of all
reasonable expenses, including medical care and boarding of the dog for 60
days, expected to be incurred by the county dog pound in caring for the dog
pending the determination. The county dog warden may draw from the security any
actual costs incurred in caring for the dog.
         (b)   If the person ordered to post security under division (D)(9)(a)
of this section does not do so within ten days of the confinement of the
animal, the dog is forfeited, and the county dog warden may determine the
disposition of the dog unless the court issues an order that specifies
otherwise.
         (c)   Not more than ten days after the court makes a final
determination under division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(6) of this section, the
county dog warden shall provide the owner of the dog with the actual cost of
the confinement of the dog. If the county dog warden finds that the security
provided under division (D)(9)(a) of this section is less than the actual cost
of confinement of the dog, the owner shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the county dog warden within 30 days
after the court’s determination. If the county dog warden finds that the
security provided under division (D)(9)(a) of this section is greater than that
actual cost, the county dog warden shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the owner within 30 days after the
court’s determination.
(R.C. § 955.99(P))
      (10)   As used in this division (D), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.99(Q))
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to regulate animals running at large, see R.C. §§
715.23 and 955.221
§ 90.02  CONFINING ANIMAL FOUND AT LARGE; PUBLICATION OF NOTICE; LIEN.
   A person finding an animal at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) may, and a law enforcement officer of the municipality on view or
information shall, take and confine that animal, promptly giving notice of the
taking and confining of the animal to the owner or keeper, if known, and if not
known, by publishing a notice describing the animal once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county or municipality where the animal was found.
If the owner or keeper does not appear and claim the animal and pay the
compensation prescribed in §
90.04 for so taking, advertising and keeping it within ten days from the date
of the notice, that person or the county shall have a lien for that
compensation and the animal may be sold at public auction as provided in R.C. §
1311.49. The residue of the proceeds of sale shall be paid and deposited by the
Treasurer in the general funds of the county.
(R.C. § 951.11)
§ 90.03  UNAVOIDABLE ESCAPES.
   If it is proven that an animal running at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) escaped from its owner or keeper without the owner’s or keeper’s
knowledge or fault, the animal shall be returned to its owner or keeper upon
payment of the compensation prescribed in §
90.04 for its taking, advertising and keeping.
(R.C. § 951.12)
§ 90.04  FEES.
   (A)   The person or municipality whose law enforcement officer takes an
animal running at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) is entitled to receive from the owner or keeper of the animal the
following compensation:
      (1)   For taking and advertising each horse, mule, head of cattle, bison,
swine, sheep, goat, llama, alpaca or goose, $5; and
      (2)   Reasonable expenses actually incurred for keeping each animal
described in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Compensation for taking, advertising and keeping a single herd or
flock shall not exceed $50 when the flock or herd belongs to one person.
(R.C. § 951.13)
§ 90.05  RABIES QUARANTINE ORDERS OF MAYOR.
   (A)   Whenever, in the judgment of the Mayor or his or her designee, rabies
is prevalent, he or she shall declare a quarantine of all dogs in the
municipality or a part thereof. During the quarantine, the owner, keeper or
harborer of any dog shall keep it confined on the premises of the owner, keeper
or harborer or in a pound, kennel, or other suitable place, at the expense of
the owner, keeper or harborer, except that a dog may be permitted to leave the
premises of its owner, keeper or harborer if it is under leash or under the
control of a responsible person. The quarantine order shall be considered an
emergency and need not be published.
   (B)   When the quarantine has been declared, the Mayor or his or her
designee may require the vaccination for rabies of all dogs within the
municipality or part thereof.
(R.C. § 955.26)
   (C)   No person shall violate a rabies quarantine order issued under this
section or R.C. § 955.26.
(R.C. § 955.39)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor for a first offense; for each subsequent offense such person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(C))
§ 90.06  INTERFERING WITH ENFORCEMENT OF QUARANTINE ORDERS.
   (A)   No person shall hinder, obstruct, resist or interfere with any
enforcing officer while engaged in enforcing an order issued under §
90.05.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07  DOGS MAY BE KILLED FOR CERTAIN ACTS.
   Subject to R.C. § 955.261(A)(2) and (A)(3), a dog that is chasing or
approaching in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack that attempts
to bite or otherwise endanger, or that kills or injures a person, or a dog that
chases, threatens, harasses, injures or kills livestock, poultry, other
domestic animal or other animal that is the property of another person, except
a cat or another dog, can be killed at the time of that chasing, threatening,
harassment, approaching, attempt, killing or injury. If, in attempting to kill
such a dog, a person wounds it, the person is not liable to prosecution under
the criminal laws or ordinances that punish cruelty to animals. Nothing in this
section precludes a law enforcement officer from killing a dog that attacks a
police dog as defined in R.C. § 2921.321.
(R.C. § 955.28(A))
§ 90.08  IMPOUNDING AND DISPOSITION; RECORDS.
   (A)   A police officer or animal warden may impound every animal or dog
found in violation of §
90.01. If the dog is not wearing a valid registration tag and the owner is not
otherwise reasonably determined, notice shall be posted in the pound or animal
shelter both describing the dog and place where seized and advising the unknown
owner that unless the dog is redeemed within three days, it may thereafter be
sold or destroyed according to law. If the dog is wearing a valid registration
tag or the identity of the owner, keeper or harborer is otherwise reasonably
determined, notice shall be given by certified mail to such owner, keeper or
harborer that the dog has been impounded and unless redeemed within 14 days of
the date of notice, it may thereafter be sold or destroyed according to law.
Any dog seized and impounded may be redeemed by its owner, keeper or harborer
at any time prior to the applicable redemption period upon payment of all
lawful costs assessed against the animal and upon providing the dog with a
valid registration tag if it has none.
   (B)   A record of all dogs impounded, the disposition of the same, the
owner’s name and address where known, and a statement of any costs assessed
against the dogs shall be kept by any poundkeeper.
(1997 Code, § 90.02)
§ 90.09  ANNUAL REGISTRATION OF DOGS; TAGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except for guide dogs registered under R.C. § 955.011 and dogs kept by
an institution or organization for teaching and research purposes under R.C. §
955.16, no person shall own, keep or harbor a dog more than three months of age
without annually registering such dog with the County Auditor. Failure of any
dog at any time to wear a valid registration tag shall be prima facie evidence
of lack of registration and subject such dog to impounding and disposition as
provided by R.C. § 955.16.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a
first offense and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree for each subsequent
offense.
(1997 Code, § 90.03)
OFFENSES RELATING TO ANIMALS
§ 90.20  ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat or other domestic animal shall
abandon the animal.
(R.C. § 959.01)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(2))
§ 90.21  INJURING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, kill or injure a dog, cat or any other domestic animal that is the
property of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian
acting in an official capacity.
(R.C. § 959.02)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
If the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300 or more,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(B))
   (C)   This section does not apply to a person killing or injuring an animal
or attempting to do so while endeavoring to prevent it from trespassing upon
his or her enclosure, or while it is so trespassing, or while driving it away
from his or her premises; provided within 15 days thereafter, payment is made
for damages done to such animal by killing or injuring, less the actual amount
of damage done by such animal while so trespassing, or a sufficient sum of
money is deposited with the nearest judge of a county court or judge of a
municipal court having jurisdiction within such time to cover the damages. The
deposit shall remain in the custody of such judge until there is a
determination of the damage resulting from such killing or injury and from the
trespass. The judge and his or her bondsmen shall be responsible for the
safekeeping of such money and for the payment thereof as for money collected
upon a judgment.
(R.C. § 959.04)
§ 90.22  POISONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, administer poison, except a licensed veterinarian acting in such
capacity, to a dog, cat or any other domestic animal that is the property of
another; and no person shall, willfully and without the consent of the owner,
place any poisoned food where it may be easily found and eaten by any such
animal, either upon his or her own lands or the lands of another.
(R.C. § 959.03)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
   (C)   This section does not apply to a person killing or injuring an animal
or attempting to do so while endeavoring to prevent it from trespassing upon
his or her enclosure, or while it is so trespassing, or while driving it away
from his or her premises; provided that within 15 days thereafter, payment is
made for damages done to such animal by killing or injuring, less the actual
amount of damage done by such animal while so trespassing, or a sufficient sum
of money is deposited with the nearest judge of a county court or judge of a
municipal court having jurisdiction within such time to cover the damages. The
deposit shall remain in the custody of such judge until there is a
determination of the damage resulting from such killing or injury and from the
trespass. The judge and his or her bondsmen shall be responsible for the
safekeeping of such money and for the payment thereof as for money collected
upon a judgment.
(R.C. § 959.04)
§ 90.23  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; CRUELTY TO COMPANION ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or
confine an animal without supplying it during the confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during the
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow or excessive direct
sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer. This division (A)(2) does not apply to
animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, SHELTER means an artificial enclosure, windbreak, sunshade or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth’s contour, tree
development or vegetation;
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;
      (4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk; or
      (5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than 28
hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food,
water and attention, nor permit the stock to be so crowded as to overlie,
crush, wound or kill each other.
   (B)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which the livestock may be detained in any cars or compartment without
food, water and attention may be extended to 36 hours without penalty therefor.
Division (A) of this section does not prevent the dehorning of cattle.
   (C)   All fines collected for violations of division (A) of this section
shall be paid to the society or association for the prevention of cruelty to
animals, if there is one in the municipality; otherwise, all fines shall be
paid to the General Fund.
(R.C. § 959.13)
   (D)   Cruelty to companion animals.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         BOARDING KENNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         CAPTIVE WHITE-TAILED DEER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
         COMPANION ANIMAL.  Means any animal that is kept inside a residential
dwelling and any dog or cat regardless of where it is kept. The term does not
include livestock or any wild animal.
         CRUELTY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         DOG KENNEL. Means an animal rescue for dogs that is registered under
R.C. § 956.06, a boarding kennel, or a training kennel.
         FEDERAL ANIMAL WELFARE ACT.  Means the Laboratory Animal Act of 1966,
Pub. L. No. 89-544, 80 Stat. 350 (1966), 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., as amended
by the Animal Welfare Act of 1970, Pub. L. No. 91-579, 84 Stat. 1560 (1970),
the Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1976, Pub. L. No. 94-279, 90 Stat. 417
(1976) and the Food Security Act of 1985, Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1354
(1985), and as it may be subsequently amended.
         LIVESTOCK. Means horses, mules, and other equidae; cattle, sheep,
goats, and other bovidae; swine and other suidae; poultry; alpacas; llamas;
captive white-tailed deer; and any other animal that is raised or maintained
domestically for food or fiber.
         PRACTICE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4741.01.
         RESIDENTIAL DWELLING.  Means a structure or shelter or the portion of
a structure or shelter that is used by one or more humans for the purpose of a
habitation.
         TORMENT.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         TORTURE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         TRAINING KENNEL. Means an establishment operating for profit that
keeps, houses, and maintains dogs for the purpose of training the dogs in
return for a fee or other consideration.
         WILD ANIMAL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or
maim, cruelly beat, poison, needlessly kill or commit an act of cruelty against
a companion animal.
      (3)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:
         (a)   Commit any act by which unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or
suffering is caused, permitted, or allowed to continue, when there is a
reasonable remedy or relief, against the companion animal;
         (b)   Omit any act of care by which unnecessary or unjustifiable pain
or suffering is caused, permitted, or allowed to continue, when there is a
reasonable remedy or relief, against the companion animal;
         (c)   Commit any act of neglect by which unnecessary or unjustifiable
pain or suffering is caused, permitted, or allowed to continue, when there is a
reasonable remedy or relief, against the companion animal;
         (d)   Needlessly kill the companion animal; and
         (e)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance, confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water, or impound or confine
the companion animal without affording it, during the impoundment or
confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold, wind, rain, snow or
excessive direct sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the companion
animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a result of or due to
the deprivation, confinement or impoundment or confinement in any of those
specified manners.
      (4)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall knowingly do any of the
following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or maim, cruelly beat,
poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty against the companion
animal; and
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance, confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of food and water, or impound or confine the companion
animal without affording it, during the impoundment or confinement, with access
to shelter if it is substantially certain that the companion animal would die
or experience unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or suffering due to the
deprivation, confinement, or impoundment or confinement in any of those
specified manners.
      (5)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of
the following:
         (a)   Commit any act by which unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or
suffering is caused, permitted, or allowed to continue, when there is a
reasonable remedy or relief, against the companion animal;
         (b)   Omit any act of care by which unnecessary or unjustifiable pain
or suffering is caused, permitted, or allowed to continue, when there is a
reasonable remedy or relief, against the companion animal;
         (c)   Commit any act of neglect by which unnecessary or unjustifiable
pain or suffering is caused, permitted, or allowed to continue, when there is a
reasonable remedy or relief, against the companion animal;
         (d)   Needlessly kill the companion animal; and
         (e)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance, confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water, or impound or confine
the companion animal without affording it, during the impoundment or
confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold, wind, rain, snow, or
excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected that the companion
animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a result of or due to
the deprivation, confinement, or impoundment or confinement in any of those
specified manners.
      (6)   Divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(4) and (D)(5)  of this section do not
apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A companion animal used in scientific research conducted by an
institution in accordance with the Federal Animal Welfare Act and related
regulations;
         (b)   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine by a person who has
been issued a license, temporary permit or registration certificate to do so
under R.C. Chapter 4741;
         (c)   Dogs being used or intended for use for hunting or field trial
purposes, provided that the dogs are being treated in accordance with usual and
commonly accepted practices for the care of hunting dogs;
         (d)   The use of common training devices, if the companion animal is
being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the
training of animals; and
         (e)   The administering of medicine to a companion animal that was
properly prescribed by a person who has been issued a license, temporary permit
or registration certificate under R.C. Chapter 4741.
      (7)   Notwithstanding any section of the Ohio Revised Code that otherwise
provides for the distribution of fine monies, the Clerk of court shall forward
all fines the Clerk collects that are so imposed for any violation of division
(D) to the Treasurer of the municipality, whose county humane society or law
enforcement agency is to be paid the fine money as determined under this
division (D). The Treasurer shall pay the fine monies to the county humane
society or the county, township, municipal corporation or state law enforcement
agency in this state that primarily was responsible for or involved in the
investigation and prosecution of the violation. If a county humane society
receives any fine monies under this division (D), the county humane society
shall use the fine monies to provide the training that is required for humane
agents under R.C. § 1717.06.
(R.C. § 959.131)
   (E)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender
to forfeit the animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition
including but not limited to the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal
or livestock is forfeited and sold pursuant to this division (E), the proceeds
from the sale first shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard
to the care of the animal from the time it was taken from the custody of the
former owner. The balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be paid
to the former owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (D)(2) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (D)(4) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D)(5) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   (a)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section to forfeit to an
impounding agency, as defined in R.C. § 959.132, any or all of the companion
animals in that person’s ownership or care. The court also may prohibit or
place limitations on the person’s ability to own or care for any companion
animals for a specified or indefinite period of time.
         (b)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (D) of this section to reimburse an impounding
agency for the reasonably necessary costs incurred by the agency for the care
of a companion animal that the agency impounded as a result of the
investigation or prosecution of the violation, provided that the costs were not
otherwise paid under R.C. § 959.132.
      (6)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section suffers from a
mental or emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may
impose as a community control sanction or as a condition of probation a
requirement that the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling.
The court shall order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or
counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Impoundment of companion animals; notice and hearing, see R.C. § 959.132
§ 90.24  ANIMAL FIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in or be employed at cockfighting,
bearbaiting or pitting an animal against another, no person shall receive money
for the admission of another to a place kept for this purpose; no person shall
use, train or possess any animal for seizing, detaining or maltreating a
domestic animal. Any person who knowingly purchases a ticket of admission to
such place, or is present thereat, or witnesses such spectacle, is an aider and
abettor.
(R.C. § 959.15)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Dogfighting, felony provisions, see R.C. § 959.16
§ 90.25  TRAPSHOOTING.
   (A)   Live birds or fowl shall not be used as targets in trapshooting.
(R.C. § 959.17)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
§ 90.26  LOUD DOG.
   (A)   No person shall own, harbor or keep in custody a dog which disturbs
the peace by barking, yelping, howling or making other loud noises to the
annoyance and/or discomfort of any person. Continuous barking, yelping, howling
and/or making other loud noises for 15 consecutive minutes by such dog, whether
confined inside a residence or building or to the outside area, shall be deemed
to have disturbed the peace and to have caused the annoyance and discomfort of
persons; provided, that at the time of the complaint, no person or persons were
trespassing or threatening to trespass upon the private property of the owner,
and provided that the dog was not being teased or provoked in any manner.
   (B)   Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain, be lodged or
fed within any dwelling, building, yard or enclosure owned or occupied by such
person shall be considered as harboring or keeping such dog.
   (C)   Upon an initial complaint, an enforcement officer shall warn the
person in writing of the violation. Upon a second such complaint within 30
days, the enforcement officer shall charge the person with a violation of this
section.
   (D)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to owners, operators or
employees of licensed veterinary hospitals, licensed kennels, or licensed
animal boarding establishments, nor does this section apply to blind, deaf or
hearing impaired, or mobility impaired persons when the dog serves as an
assistance dog.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances generally, see
Chapter 94
§ 90.27  DOG TAGS.
   (A)   No owner of a dog, except a dog constantly confined to a dog kennel
registered under R.C. Chapter 955 or one licensed under R.C. Chapter 956, shall
fail to require the dog to wear, at all times, a valid tag issued in connection
with a certificate of registration. A dog found not wearing at any time a valid
tag shall be prima-facie evidence of lack of registration and shall subject any
dog found not wearing such a tag to impounding, sale, or destruction.
(R.C. § 955.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 90.28  NUISANCE, DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOG DEFINED; TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP
CERTIFICATE; FORM STATING DOG’S PRIOR BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   A dog that, without provocation, and subject to division (b) of
this definition, has done any of the following:
            1.   Caused injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any
person;
            2.   Killed another dog;
            3.   Been the subject of a third or subsequent violation of R.C. §
955.22(C) or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   DANGEROUS DOG does not include a police dog that has caused
injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any person or has killed
another dog while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law
enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      MENACING FASHION.  Means a dog that would cause any person being chased
or approached to reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical injury to
that person.
      NUISANCE DOG.
         (a)   Subject to division (b) of this definition, NUISANCE DOG means a
dog that without provocation and while off the premises of its owner, keeper or
harborer has chased or approached a person in either a menacing fashion or an
apparent attitude of attack or has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger any
person.
         (b)   NUISANCE DOG does not include a police dog that, while being
used to assist one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of
official duties, has chased or approached a person in either a menacing fashion
or an apparent attitude of attack or has attempted to bite or otherwise
endanger any person.
      POLICE DOG.  Means a dog that has been trained and may be used to assist
one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      SERIOUS INJURY.  Any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
         (b)   Any physical harm that involves a permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or a temporary, substantial incapacity;
         (c)   Any physical harm that involves a permanent disfigurement or a
temporary, serious disfigurement; and
         (d)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or any degree of prolonged or intractable
pain.
      VICIOUS DOG.
         (a)   A dog that, without provocation and subject to division (b) of
this definition, has killed or caused serious injury to any person.
         (b)   VICIOUS DOG does not include either of the following:
            1.   A police dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any
person while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law enforcement
officers in the performance of their official duties; or
            2.   A dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any person
while a person was committing or attempting to commit a trespass or other
criminal offense on the property of the owner, keeper or harborer of the dog.
      WITHOUT PROVOCATION.  A dog acts without provocation when it was not
teased, tormented or abused by a person, or it was not coming to the aid or the
defense of a person who was not engaged in illegal or criminal activity and who
was not using the dog as a means of carrying out such activity.
   (B)   Upon the transfer of ownership of any dog, the seller of the dog shall
give the buyer a transfer of ownership certificate that shall be signed by the
seller. The certificate shall contain the registration number of the dog, the
name of the seller, and a brief description of the dog. Blank forms of the
certificate may be obtained from the County Auditor. A transfer of ownership
shall be recorded by the Auditor upon presentation of a transfer of ownership
certificate that is signed by the former owner of a dog and that is accompanied
by a fee of $5.
   (C)   Prior to the transfer of ownership or possession of any dog, upon the
buyer’s or other transferee’s request, the seller or other transferor of the
dog shall give to the person a written notice relative to the behavior and
propensities of the dog.
   (D)   Within ten days after the transfer of ownership or possession of any
dog, if the seller or transferor of the dog has knowledge that the dog is a
dangerous dog, the seller or other transferor shall give to the buyer or
transferee, the Board of Health for the district in which the buyer or other
transferee resides, and the dog warden of the county in which the buyer or
other transferee resides a completed copy of a written form on which the seller
shall furnish the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the buyer or other transferee of the dog;
      (2)   The age, sex, color, breed and current registration number of the
dog; and
      (3)   In addition, the seller shall answer the following questions which
shall be specifically stated on the form as follows:
         Has the dog ever chased or attempted to attack or bite a person? If
yes, describe the incident(s) in which the behavior occurred.
         Has the dog ever bitten a person? If yes, describe the incident(s) in
which the behavior occurred.
         Has the dog ever seriously injured or killed a person? If yes,
describe the incident(s) in which the behavior occurred.
      (4)   The dog warden of the county in which the seller resides furnishes
the form to the seller at no cost.
   (E)   No seller or other transferor of a dog shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of divisions (B) to (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 955.11)
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section because failure to
comply with division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section because of a failure
to comply with division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on
each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 955.99(A))
§ 90.29  FAILURE TO REGISTER DOG OR DOG KENNEL.
   (A)   No owner, keeper or harborer of a dog more than three months of age,
nor owner of a dog kennel, shall fail to file an application for registration
required by R.C. § 955.01, nor shall he or she fail to pay the legal fee
therefor.
(R.C. § 955.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
§ 90.30  HINDERING THE CAPTURE OF UNREGISTERED DOG.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct or interfere with anyone lawfully engaged in
capturing an unlicensed dog or making an examination of a dog wearing a tag.
(R.C. § 955.24)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 90.31  UNLAWFUL TAG.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor a dog wearing a fictitious,
altered or invalid registration tag or a registration tag not issued by the
County Auditor in connection with the registration of that animal.
(R.C. § 955.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 90.32  RIGHTS OF BLIND, DEAF OR HEARING IMPAIRED, OR MOBILITY IMPAIRED
PERSON, OR TRAINER WITH ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   When either a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person, or a trainer of an assistance dog is accompanied by an assistance dog,
the person or the trainer, as applicable, is entitled to the full and equal
accommodations, advantages, facilities and privileges of all public
conveyances, hotels and lodging places, all places of public accommodation,
amusement or resort, and other places to which the general public is invited,
and may take the dog into such conveyances and places, subject only to the
conditions and limitations applicable to all persons not so accompanied, except
that:
      (1)   The dog shall not occupy a seat in any public conveyance;
      (2)   The dog shall be leashed while using the facilities of a common
carrier; and
      (3)   Any dog in training to become an assistance dog shall be covered by
a liability insurance policy provided by the nonprofit special agency engaged
in such work protecting members of the public against personal injury or
property damage caused by the dog.
   (B)   No person shall deprive a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person, or a trainer of an assistance dog who is accompanied by an
assistance dog of any of the advantages, facilities, or privileges provided in
division (A) of this section, nor charge the person or trainer a fee or charge
for the dog.
(R.C. § 955.43(A), (B))
   (C)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG.  Means a guide dog, hearing dog or service dog that has
been trained by a nonprofit special agency.
      BLIND.  Means either of the following:
         (a)   Vision 20/200 or less in the better eye with proper correction;
or
         (b)   Field defect in the better eye with proper correction that
contracts the peripheral field so that the diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      GUIDE DOG.  Means a dog that has been trained or is in training to assist
a blind person.
      HEARING DOG.  Means a dog that has been trained or is in training to
assist a deaf or hearing-impaired person.
      INSTITUTIONS OF EDUCATION.
         (a)   Any state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.32;
         (b)   Any private college or university that holds a certificate of
authorization issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter
1713;
         (c)   Any elementary or secondary school operated by a board of
education;
         (d)   Any chartered or nonchartered nonpublic elementary or secondary
school; or
         (e)   Any school issued a certificate of registration by the state
Board of Career Colleges and Schools.
      MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON.  Means any person, regardless of age, who is
subject to a physiological defect or deficiency regardless of its cause, nature
or extent that renders the person unable to move about without the aid of
crutches, a wheelchair or any other form of support, or that limits the
person’s functional ability to ambulate, climb, descend, sit, rise or perform
any related function. The term includes a person with a neurological or
psychological disability that limits the person’s functional ability to
ambulate, climb, descend, sit, rise or perform any related function, and also
includes a person with a seizure disorder and a person who is diagnosed with
autism.
      SERVICE DOG.  Means a dog that has been trained or is in training to
assist a mobility impaired person.
(R.C. §§ 955.011(B), 955.43(C))
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(D))
Cross-reference:
   Assaulting assistance dog, see §
136.15
§ 90.33  RETAIL SALE AND TRANSPORTATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer to sell or expose for sale to the general
public at retail any dog under the age of eight weeks.
   (B)   No person shall receive or ship, for sale to the general public at
retail, any dog that is not accompanied by a certificate, issued by a licensed
veterinarian who is accredited by the United States Department of Agriculture
and authorized to issue health certificates for animals in interstate commerce,
certifying that the dog is sufficiently sound and healthy to be reasonably
expected to withstand the intended transportation without adverse effect.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the transportation of dogs in
interstate commerce by common carrier, provided that neither the point of
shipment nor the point of receiving is within this state.
   (D)   No person responsible for the transportation of a pregnant dog shall
be liable in damages for any injury or illness of, or the death of, the dog or
any puppies, whenever the injuries, illness or death results from the birth of
such puppies during the time the dog is being transported.
(R.C. § 955.50)
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a
first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(C))
§ 90.34  COLORING RABBITS OR BABY POULTRY; REGULATION OF SALE AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   No person shall dye or otherwise color any rabbit or baby poultry,
including but not limited to chicks and ducklings. No person shall sell, offer
for sale, expose for sale, raffle or give away any rabbit or baby poultry which
has been dyed or otherwise colored. No poultry younger than four weeks of age
may be sold, given away or otherwise distributed to any person in lots of less
than six. Stores, shops, vendors and others offering young poultry for sale or
other distribution shall provide and operate brooders or other heating devices
that may be necessary to maintain poultry in good health, and shall keep
adequate food and water available to the poultry at all times.
(R.C. § 925.62)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 925.99(B))
§ 90.35  JACKLIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw or cast the rays of a spotlight or other
artificial light from any vehicle into any field, woodland or forest while
having in his or her possession a hunting device, or throw or cast the rays of
a spotlight or other artificial light from any vehicle into any field, woodland
or forest for the purpose of locating a wild animal.
   (B)   This section does not apply to law enforcement officers, wildlife
officers, military personnel and officers or employees of the Department of
Natural Resources while in the performance of their duties, or to any landowner
or lessee having a reason to use a light while engaged in surveillance or
protection of his or her property.
   (C)   An officer whose duty it is to enforce this chapter may arrest a
person whom he or she has reasonable grounds to believe is violating this
section, search the vehicle for firearms or other hunting implements in the
possession or under the control of that person, and seize the same.
(R.C. § 1533.161)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(B))
(1997 Code, § 139.03)
§ 90.36  RESTRICTIONS ON DOG OWNERSHIP FOR CERTAIN CONVICTED FELONS.
   (A)   No person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony offense of
violence committed on or after May 22, 2012 or a felony violation of any
provision of R.C. Chapter 959, R.C. Chapter 2923 or R.C. Chapter 2925 committed
on or after May 22, 2012 shall knowingly own, possess, have custody of or
reside in a residence with either of the following for a period of three years
commencing either upon the date of release of the person from any period of
incarceration imposed for the offense or violation or, if the person is not
incarcerated for the offense or violation, upon the date of the person’s final
release from the other sanctions imposed for the offense or violation:
      (1)   An unspayed or unneutered dog older than 12 weeks of age;
      (2)   Any dog that has been determined to be a dangerous dog under R.C.
Chapter 955 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (B)   A person described in division (A) of this section shall microchip for
permanent identification any dog owned, possessed by or in the custody of the
person.
   (C)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
confined in a correctional institution of the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person with
respect to any dog that the person owned, possessed, had custody of or resided
in a residence with prior to May 22, 2012.
(R.C. § 955.54)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(O))
§ 90.37  NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl in the municipality
so as to create noxious, or offensive odors or unsanitary conditions which are
a menace to the health, comfort or safety of the public.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 90.08)
§ 90.38  ANIMAL BITES; REPORTS AND QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Whenever any person is bitten by a dog or other animal, report of such
bite shall be made to the Health Commissioner within 24 hours. Whenever it is
reported to the Health Commissioner that any dog or cat has bitten a person,
that dog or cat shall be quarantined under an order issued by the Health
Commissioner. The dog or cat shall be quarantined by its owner or by a
harborer, or shall be quarantined in a pound or kennel. In all cases, such
quarantine shall be under the supervision of the Health Commissioner and shall
be at the expense of the owner or harborer. Quarantine shall continue until the
Health Commissioner determines that the dog or cat is not afflicted with
rabies. The quarantine period hereby required shall not be less than ten days
from the date on which the person was bitten. If at any time during the
quarantine, the Health Commissioner requires the dog or cat to be examined for
symptoms of rabies, then the examination shall be by a licensed doctor of
veterinary medicine. The veterinarian shall report to the Health Commissioner
the conclusions reached as a result of the examinations. The examination by a
veterinarian shall be at the expense of the owner or harborer. No dog or cat
shall be released from the required quarantine unless and until it has been
properly vaccinated against rabies. No person shall fail to comply with the
requirements of this section or with any order of the Health Commissioner made
pursuant thereto, nor fail to immediately report to the Health Commissioner any
symptom or behavior suggestive of rabies.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 90.10)
§ 90.39  HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hunt, kill or attempt to kill any animal or fowl by
the use of firearms, bow and arrow, air rifle or any other means within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   Nothing in this section or elsewhere in the code of ordinances of the
village shall prohibit the use of firearms in the control and removal of
nuisance wildlife on land for which an applicant has a valid current deer
damage control permit issued by the Ohio Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 90.11)  (Ord. 1222-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 90.40  BIRDS.
   (A)   No person shall kill or injure any wild bird, or throw, fire or shoot
a bullet, stone, arrow or other missile at such bird, or break, tear down or
destroy any bird’s nest or the eggs or other contents of such nest, or catch or
capture any wild bird, or set traps, or spread nets or snares with intent to
catch or capture the same, or follow or pursue the same with intent to catch or
injure such bird.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 90.13)
§ 90.41  KEEPING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep any pig, horse, cow, goat, four or more dogs or
cats at least three months of age, or any other animals or any fowl or poultry
in any pen, yard, lot or other enclosure situated on less than one acre of land
and within 100 feet of an inhabited dwelling other than the dwelling of the
owner of such animal or animals.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 90.15)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty as provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 91:  UNION CEMETERY
Section
   
91.01   Joint operation of cemetery
   
91.02   Apportionment of expenses
   
91.03   Control and management
   
91.04   Joint meeting
   
91.05   Board of Cemetery Trustees
   
91.06   Clerk-Treasurer
   
91.07   Sexton
§ 91.01  JOINT OPERATION OF CEMETERY.
   The Village of Batavia and Batavia Township, both located within Clermont
County, Ohio, hereby confirm and ratify the operation of the Batavia Union
Cemetery as a “Union Cemetery” pursuant to R.C. §§ 759.27 to 759.48, subject to
the joint management and control of the Village Council and the Board of
Trustees of the township.
(1997 Code, § 91.01)  (Ord. 894-95, passed 6-26-1995)
§ 91.02  APPORTIONMENT OF EXPENSES.
   Funding necessary for the operation of the Batavia Union Cemetery shall be
apportioned equally between the village and the township.
(1997 Code, § 91.02)  (Ord. 894-95, passed 6-26-1995)
§ 91.03  CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The Batavia Union Cemetery shall be under the control and management
of a Board of Cemetery Trustees pursuant to R.C. § 759.31.
   (B)   Pursuant to R.C. § 759.33, there shall be no distinction or
discrimination made by the Board of Cemetery Trustees in favor of the village
against the township or in favor of the township against the village; but the
affairs of the cemetery shall in all respects be managed as though it were
owned and governed in the interest of the village or township alone.
(1997 Code, § 91.03)  (Ord. 894-95, passed 6-26-1995)
§ 91.04  JOINT MEETING.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. 759.34, there shall be a joint meeting of the Village
Council and the Board of Trustees of the township on the date of the first
regularly scheduled meeting of the Village Council in the month of May each
year for cemetery purposes.
   (B)   Pursuant to R.C. § 759.35, the Village Council or the Board of
Trustees of the township may at any time call a joint meeting of such
legislative authorities and boards on a reasonable notice given by either, for
the purpose of making joint rules and regulations for the government of the
cemetery, or changing them, and making such orders as are found necessary for
the application of monies arising from the sale of lots, taxes or otherwise.
(1997 Code, § 91.04)  (Ord. 894-95, passed 6-26-1995)
§ 91.05  BOARD OF CEMETERY TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Members.  Pursuant to R.C. § 759.36, the Batavia Union Cemetery Board
of Trustees shall consist of three members, of which one or more must be a
member of each of the legislative authorities which comprise the Union Cemetery
Association represented by the joint meeting. The third member may be either a
member of the Village Council or the Board of Trustees of the township, or may
be a resident selected at large from the community; however, in all cases that
third member shall be a resident of either the village or township.
   (B)   Election of members to Cemetery Board of Trustees.  Members of the
Cemetery Board of Trustees shall be elected at the joint meeting provided for
by R.C. § 759.34, by a majority vote of all present counting members of the
Village Council and the Board of Township Trustees.
   (C)   Custody of funds.  The Board of Cemetery Trustees so elected shall
have the custody of any funds derived from any tax levy provided for by R.C. §
759.34 and any funds provided to the cemetery by the respective legislative
bodies comprising the union, and any funds generated by the sale of lots and
operation of the cemetery.
   (D)   Powers and duties.  Pursuant to R.C. § 759.36, the Board of Cemetery
Trustees shall have all the powers and perform all duties exercised and
performed by the Director of Public Service of a municipal corporation under
R.C. §§ 759.09 to 759.14.
   (E)   Term of office.  Pursuant to R.C. § 759.36, the term of office for
members of the Board of Cemetery Trustees shall be three years, commencing on
the first day of January next following the joint meeting held in May. The
three members of the Board of Cemetery Trustees shall have staggered terms. At
any regular or regularly called joint meeting of the municipal legislative
authority and Board of Township Trustees, vacancies occurring on the Board of
Cemetery Trustees may be filled by a majority vote of members present, the
election to be for the unexpired term.
(1997 Code, § 91.05)  (Ord. 894-95, passed 6-26-1995)
§ 91.06  CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Appointment.  Pursuant to R.C. § 759.36, one member of the Board of
Cemetery Trustees, or a person selected by the Board of Trustees, shall be
designated the Clerk-Treasurer for a term not to exceed two years.
   (B)   Compensation.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall be compensated from the
Cemetery Fund in an amount to be fixed by the Board of Cemetery Trustees in
view of the size and financial condition of the cemetery association.
   (C)   Duties and bonding.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall be charged with the
duty of accounting for the Cemetery Fund, and shall be bonded in an amount
equal to or greater than the amount in the Fund, but not less than $1,000. The
bond shall be subject to the approval of the Cemetery Board of Trustees and
shall be paid for from cemetery funds.
(1997 Code, § 91.06)  (Ord. 894-95, passed 6-26-1995)
§ 91.07  SEXTON.
   The Batavia Union Cemetery Board of Trustees shall hire a sexton as an
employee of the cemetery association.
   (A)   Appointment.  The sexton shall be hired by a majority vote of the
Board of Cemetery Trustees members.
   (B)   Responsibilities.  The sexton shall be responsible for the day-to-day
operation of the Batavia Union Cemetery, subject to any supervision,
management, rules and regulations the Cemetery Board of Trustees may impose
from time to time at its direction. The sexton shall require that next of kin
or other responsible person sign and date forms indicating lot and grave site.
      (1)   Sale of lots.  The sexton shall have authority to and be
responsible for, the sale of cemetery lots to the public. The sales price of
cemetery lots is to be determined by the Board of Cemetery Trustees.
      (2)   Deed books.  The sexton shall be responsible for maintaining books
and records of all cemetery lot deeds. The deed books are to be maintained in
such place and in such a manner as directed by the Board of Cemetery Trustees.
      (3)   Burials.  The sexton shall coordinate all burials with the funeral
directors and members of the deceased’s family. The sexton shall be responsible
for contacting the grave digger and identifying the proper lot to be opened.
      (4)   Maintain property.  The sexton shall be responsible for the general
appearance and maintenance of the cemetery grounds.
   (C)   Term of office.  The sexton shall serve at the pleasure of the Board
of Cemetery Trustees.
(1997 Code, § 91.07)  (Ord. 894-95, passed 6-26-1995)
CHAPTER 92:  FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Fire prevention code; copies and amendments
   
92.02   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
92.03   Blasting permit
Fireworks and Explosives
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Possession, sale and use of fireworks
   
92.17   Permit to use fireworks
   
92.18   Manufacturing or wholesale sale without a license; prohibitions
   
92.19   Purchasers to comply with law; unauthorized purchases
   
92.20   Exhibition without a license; prohibitions for exhibitions
   
92.21   Unauthorized transportation or shipping
   
92.22   Application of subchapter
   
92.23   Arrest of offender; seizure and forfeiture of fireworks; distribution
of fines
   
92.24   Safety requirements for fireworks showroom structures
   
92.25   Storage of explosives
Fire Prevention
   
92.40   Removal of flammable materials or obstructions
   
92.41   Protective appliances
   
92.42   Compliance with order
   
92.43   Waste receptacles
   
92.44   Hotel to have fire warning device producing visible signal
   
92.45   Fire suppression systems
   
92.46   Violations of State Fire Code prohibited
   
92.47   Posting arson notices in hotels, motels and other places
   
92.48   Negligent burning
   
92.49   Spreading alarm of unfriendly fire
   
92.50   Unvented heaters
Open Burning
   
92.65   Definitions
   
92.66   Relations to other prohibitions
   
92.67   Open burning in restricted areas
   
92.68   Permission and notice to open burn
   
92.69   Bonfire and outdoor rubbish fires
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance, see §
137.06
   Fire Department, see §
32.02
   License to possess dangerous ordnance, see §
137.10
   Vehicles carrying explosives, see §
74.36
Statutory reference:
   Fire Marshal, fire safety, see R.C. Chapter 3737
   Fireworks, state law provisions, see R.C. Chapter 3743
   Ohio Fire Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 1301:7-7
   Open burning, see O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19
   Power to regulate explosives, see R.C. § 715.60
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  FIRE PREVENTION CODE; COPIES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Adoption and purpose.  The Clermont County Fire Prevention Code is
hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as the standard fire code of the
village to guard against the occurrence of fires and protect the property and
lives of its citizens against damage and accidents resulting therefrom. The
Fire Prevention Code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out
at length herein.
   (B)   File and sale copies.  The Village Fiscal Officer shall maintain on
file a complete copy of such Fire Code, shall file a copy of such Fire Code in
the Law Library of the county and shall make copies available to the public at
cost.
   (C)   Amendments.
      (1)   Penalty for violations.  Any person who shall violate any of the
provisions of this Code or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or
fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation
of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to
comply with such order as affirmed or modified by the fire official, or a court
of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for
each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor on the first offense thereof; on a second offense within one
year after the first offense, such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree, with penalties for such violations as set forth in §
130.99 of the codified ordinances. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time; each day of continued violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (2)   Validity.  If any section, paragraph, sentence or word of this Code
hereby adopted be declared for any reason to be invalid, it is the intent that
all other portions of this Code are independent of the elimination here from of
any such portion as may be declared invalid.
      (3)   Enforcement of removal.  The application of any penalties of this
Code shall not be held to prevent the enforcement removal of prohibited
conditions.
(1997 Code, § 92.01)  (Ord. 673-81, passed 9-14-1981; Ord. 841-92, passed 5-11-
1992; Ord. 856-93, passed 2-8-1993)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical codes, see R.C. § 731.231
§ 92.02  NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility;
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for the mentally retarded and the mentally ill; university
and college buildings, except rooms within those buildings used primarily as
the residences of students or other persons affiliated with the university or
college; office buildings; libraries; museums; and vehicles used in public
transportation. That portion of a building or other enclosed structure that is
owned by the state, a state agency or a political subdivision and that is used
primarily as a food service establishment is not a place of public assembly;
and
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafés,
cafeterias or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Department of Liquor Control to sell
intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises are not places of public
assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area; provided that, no more than half of the
rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the
municipality, Council shall designate an officer who shall designate the area.
In places included in division (A)(3) of this section, the person having
control of the operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the
no smoking area. In places included in division (A)(2) of this section which
are also included in division (A)(1) of this section, the officer who has
authority to designate the area in places in division (A)(2) of this section
shall designate the no smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire
place of public assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs
that are clearly visible and that state “NO SMOKING.” No person shall remove
signs from areas designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031)  (1997 Code, § 92.03)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  BLASTING PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the village without
making application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the Mayor. The Mayor
before granting such permit may require the applicant to provide a bond to
indemnify the village and all other persons against injury or damages which
might result from the proposed blasting.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 92.04)  Penalty, see §
92.99
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 92.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   1.3G FIREWORKS.  Display fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“division 1.3” in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   1.4G FIREWORKS.  Consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of the
United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“division 1.4” in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   BEER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4301.01.
   BOOBY TRAP.  A small tube that has a string protruding from both ends that
has a friction-sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling the ends of
the string.
   CIGARETTE LOAD.  A small wooden peg that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISCHARGE SITE.  An area immediately surrounding the mortars used to fire
aerial shells.
   EXPLOSIVE.  Any chemical compound, mixture or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3 or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include “fireworks,” as
defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting the
definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured, sold,
possessed, transported, stored or used in any activity described in R.C. §
3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
(R.C. § 2923.11)
   FIREWORKS.  Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of producing
a visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation,
except ordinary matches and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT.  Any action or omission that occurs at a fireworks
exhibition that results in injury or death, or a substantial risk of injury or
death, to any person, and that involves either of the following:
      (1)   The handling or other use, or the results of the handling or other
use, of fireworks or associated equipment or other materials; or
      (2)   The failure of any person to comply with any applicable requirement
imposed by this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3743, or any applicable rule adopted
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3743.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT SITE.  A discharge site or other location at a fireworks
exhibition where a fireworks incident occurs, a location where an injury or
death associated with a fireworks incident occurs, or a location where evidence
of a fireworks incident or an injury or death associated with a fireworks
incident is found.
   FIREWORKS PLANT.  All buildings and other structures in which the
manufacturing of fireworks, or the storage or sale of manufactured fireworks by
a manufacturer, takes place.
   HIGHWAY.  Any public street, road, alley, way, lane or other public
thoroughfare.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4301.01.
   LICENSED BUILDING.  A building on the licensed premises of a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks that is approved for occupancy by the
building official having jurisdiction.
   LICENSED EXHIBITOR OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED EXHIBITOR.  A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED MANUFACTURER.  A person
licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08.
   LICENSED PREMISES.  The real estate upon which a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler of fireworks conducts business.
   LICENSED WHOLESALER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED WHOLESALER.  A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.15 through 3743.21.
   MANUFACTURING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from raw materials, none
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, or the processing of
fireworks.
   NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS.
      (1)   Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the user,
including but not limited to booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers and
snappers;
      (2)   Snakes or glow worms;
      (3)   Smoke devices; and
      (4)   Trick matches.
   PARTY POPPER.  A small plastic or paper item that contains not more than 16
milligrams of friction-sensitive explosive composition that is ignited by
pulling a string protruding from the item, and from which paper streamers are
expelled when the item is ignited.
   PROCESSING OF FIREWORKS.  The making of fireworks from materials all or part
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, but does not include the
mere packaging or repackaging of fireworks.
   RAILROAD.  Any railway or railroad that carries freight or passengers for
hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs and sidings installed and
primarily used in serving a mine, quarry or plant.
   RETAIL SALE or SELL AT RETAIL.  A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to use the fireworks and not to resell them.
   SMOKE DEVICE.  A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic composition that,
upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
   SNAKE or GLOW WORM.  A device that consists of a pressed pellet of
pyrotechnic composition that produces a large snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
   SNAPPER.  A small paper-wrapped item that contains a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand and that, when dropped,
implodes.
   STORAGE LOCATION.  A single parcel or contiguous parcels of real estate
approved by the Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. § 3743.04(I) or R.C. § 3743.17(G)
that are separate from a licensed premises containing a retail showroom, and
which parcel or parcels a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks may
use only for the distribution, possession and storage of fireworks in
accordance with this chapter.
   TRICK MATCH.  A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small quantity
of explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small report or a
shower of sparks.
   WHOLESALE SALE or SELL AT WHOLESALE.  A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to resell the fireworks so purchased.
   WIRE SPARKLER.  A sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated with a
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition
and that contains no more than 100 grams of this mixture.
(R.C. § 3743.01)
§ 92.16  POSSESSION, SALE AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08, a
licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.15 through
3743.21, a shipping permit holder as authorized by R.C. § 3743.40, an out-of-
state resident as authorized by R.C. § 3743.44, a resident of this state as
authorized by R.C. § 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as
authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55, or as authorized by any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of these statutes,
and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (B)   Except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and except for licensed exhibitors of fireworks authorized
to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, no person shall discharge,
ignite or explode any fireworks in this municipality.
   (C)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
   (D)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18 years
of age. No person under 18 years of age shall enter a fireworks sales showroom
unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or other
responsible adult. No person under 18 years of age shall touch or possess
fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
   (E)   No person, other than a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler,
licensed exhibitor or shipping permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in
this municipality.
(R.C. § 3743.65(A) - (E))  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony offense for disabling a fire suppression system, see R.C. § 3743.65
(F)
§ 92.17  PERMIT TO USE FIREWORKS.
   (A)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under R.C. §§ 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
having jurisdiction over the premises.
   (B)   The approval required by division (A) of this section shall be
evidenced by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, signing a permit for the
exhibition. Any exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks
exhibition may obtain a copy of the form from the State Fire Marshal or, if
available, from the Fire Chief, a fire prevention officer, the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer.
   (C)   Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of
the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall inspect
the premises on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that,
in fact, the applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks.
Each applicant shall show his or her license as an exhibitor of fireworks to
the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer.
   (D)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall give approval to
conduct a public fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the
inspection, that the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow
the exhibitor to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) and that the applicant is, in fact, a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in
consultation with the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer or with the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, may inspect the premises immediately prior to the
exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may
revoke a permit for noncompliance with the rules.
   (E)   If the legislative authority has prescribed a fee for the issuance of
a permit for a public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
their designee, shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor pays the requisite
fee.
   (F)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least one million dollars with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or fire
prevention officer and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments
that may be rendered against the exhibitor on account of injury, death or loss
to person or property emanating from the fireworks exhibitor, or proof of
insurance coverage of at least one million dollars for liability arising from
injury, death or loss of persons or property emanating from the fireworks
exhibition. The legislative authority may require the exhibitor to provide an
indemnity bond or proof of insurance coverage in amounts greater than those
required by this division (F). The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or their designee,
shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the
insurance coverage required by this division (F) or by the legislative
authority.
   (G)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, shall contain a distinct number, designate the
municipality and identify the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer who will be present before, during and after the
exhibition, where appropriate. A copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded
by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, issuing it to the State Fire Marshal. A
permit is not transferable or assignable.
   (H)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, shall keep a record of issued permits
for fireworks exhibitions. In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention
officer, Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer or
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
shall list the name of the exhibitor, his or her license number, the premises
on which the exhibition will be conducted, the date and time of the exhibition,
and the number and political subdivision designation of the permit issued to
the exhibitor for the exhibition.
   (I)   The legislative authority shall require that a certified fire safety
inspector, Fire Chief or fire prevention officer be present before, during and
after the exhibition, and shall require the certified fire safety inspector,
Fire Chief or fire prevention officer to inspect the premises where the
exhibition is to take place and determine whether the exhibition is in
compliance with this chapter and R.C. Chapter 3743.
(R.C. § 3743.54(B) - (F))  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Notice of fireworks incident, see R.C. § 3743.541
§ 92.18  MANUFACTURING OR WHOLESALE SALE WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
knowingly fail to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.05 and 3743.18 or the requirements of R.C. §§ 3743.06
and 3743.19.
   (B)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to maintain complete inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as
required by R.C. §§ 3743.07 and 3743.20, or to permit an inspection of these
records or the premises of a fireworks plant or the wholesaler pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08 and 3743.21.
   (C)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.01(B)(1) and 3743.21(B)(1) within the specified period of time.
   (D)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08(B)(2) and 3743.21(B)(2) until the nonconformities are eliminated,
corrected or otherwise remedied or the 72 hour period specified in those
divisions has expired, whichever occurs first.
   (E)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette or cigar, or a
match, lighter, other flame-producing item or open flame on, or shall carry a
concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a fireworks plant or on the
premises of a wholesaler of fireworks, except as smoking is authorized in
specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a manufacturer or wholesaler pursuant to
R.C. § 3743.06(C) or R.C. § 3743.19(D).
   (F)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled substance while on
the premises of the fireworks plant or on the premises of a wholesaler of
fireworks.
(R.C. §§ 3743.60(E) - (J), 3743.61(E) - (J))  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony provisions, see R.C. §§ 3743.60(A) through (D) and 3743.61(A) through
(D)
§ 92.19  PURCHASERS TO COMPLY WITH LAW; UNAUTHORIZED PURCHASES.
   (A)   No person who resides in another state and purchases fireworks in this
municipality shall obtain possession of the fireworks in this municipality
unless the person complies with R.C. § 3743.44, provided that knowingly making
a false statement on the fireworks purchasers form is not a violation of this
section but is a violation of R.C. § 2921.13 (Falsification) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (B)   No person who resides in another state and who purchases fireworks in
this municipality shall obtain possession of fireworks in this municipality
other than from a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler, or fail, when
transporting the fireworks, to transport them directly out of the state within
72 hours after the time of their purchase. No such person shall give or sell to
any other person in this municipality fireworks that the person has acquired in
this state.
   (C)   No person who resides in this state and purchases fireworks in this
municipality shall obtain possession of the fireworks in this municipality
unless the person complies with R.C. § 3743.45, provided that knowingly making
a false statement on the fireworks purchasers form is not a violation of this
section but is a violation of R.C. § 2921.13 (Falsification) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   No person who resides in this state and who purchases fireworks in
this municipality under R.C. § 3743.45 shall obtain possession of the fireworks
in this municipality other than from a licensed manufacturer or licensed
wholesaler, or fail, when transporting the fireworks, to transport them
directly out of the state within 48 hours after the time of their purchase. No
such person shall give or sell to any other person in this municipality
fireworks that the person has acquired in this state.
(R.C. § 3743.63)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20  EXHIBITION WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS FOR EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) or to comply with R.C. § 3743.53(C) and (D).
   (B)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks
exhibition unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to R.C.
§ 3743.54 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or if a permit so
secured is revoked by a Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation
with a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or with a
designee of a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
pursuant to those sections.
   (C)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use at
a fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with R.C. §§ 3743.54 and
3743.55, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with the
conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or be
under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled substance
while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.
   (E)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to assist
the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the employee
is registered with the State Fire Marshal under R.C. § 3743.56.
(R.C. § 3743.64(C) - (G))  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony provisions, see R.C. § 3743.64(A), (B) and (H)
   Notice of fireworks incident, see R.C. § 3743.541
§ 92.21  UNAUTHORIZED TRANSPORTATION OR SHIPPING.
   (A)   No person shall transport fireworks in this municipality except in
accordance with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §
3743.58.
   (B)   As used in this division (B), FIREWORKS includes only 1.3G and 1.4G
fireworks. No person shall ship fireworks into this municipality by mail,
parcel post or common carrier unless the person possesses a valid shipping
permit issued under R.C. § 3743.40, and the fireworks are shipped directly to
the holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.03, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
   (C)   No person shall ship fireworks within this municipality by mail,
parcel post or common carrier unless the fireworks are shipped directly to the
holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.01, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
(R.C. § 3743.66)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22  APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use in
emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress signals for
marine, aviation or highway use;
   (B)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
fusees, torpedoes or other signals necessary for the safe operation of
railroads;
   (C)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in connection with
athletics as signals for ceremonial purposes;
   (D)   The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use
by, or the sale to the armed forces of the United States and the militia of
this state of pyrotechnic devices;
   (E)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic
caps containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive material are used, provided
that they are constructed so that a hand cannot come into contact with a cap
when it is in place for explosion, or apply to the manufacture, sale,
possession, transportation, storage or use of those caps;
   (F)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms or model rockets and model
rocket motors designed, sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable
aero models;
   (G)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
wire sparklers; and
   (H)   The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use an
explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per charge,
and that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges; provided, that
the exhibition complies with all of the following:
      (1)   No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;
      (2)   The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than 200
feet; and
      (3)   The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations of
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the United States Department of
the Treasury and the United States Department of Transportation with respect to
the storage and transport of the explosive black powder used in the exhibition.
(R.C. § 3743.80)
§ 92.23  ARREST OF OFFENDER; SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF FIREWORKS; DISTRIBUTION
OF FINES.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal, an Assistant Fire Marshal or a certified fire safety
inspector may arrest, or may cause the arrest of, any person whom he or she
finds in the act of violating, or who he or she has reasonable cause to believe
has violated, any provision of this subchapter. Any arrest shall be made in
accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing arrests by
law enforcement officers.
   (B)   If the Fire Marshal, an Assistant Fire Marshal, or certified fire
safety inspector has probable cause to believe that fireworks are being
manufactured, sold, possessed, transported or used in violation of this
subchapter, he or she may seize the fireworks. Any seizure of fireworks shall
be made in accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing
searches and seizures by law enforcement officers. The Fire Marshal’s office or
certified fire safety inspector’s office shall impound at the site or safely
keep seized fireworks pending the time they are no longer needed as evidence. A
sample of the seized fireworks is sufficient for evidentiary purposes. The
remainder of the seized fireworks may be disposed of pursuant to an order from
a court of competent jurisdiction after notice and a hearing.
   (C)   Fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported or used in
violation of this subchapter shall be forfeited by the offender. The Fire
Marshal’s office or certified fire safety inspector’s office shall dispose of
seized fireworks pursuant to the procedures specified in R.C. §§ 2981.11 to
2981.13 for the disposal of forfeited property by law enforcement agencies, and
the Fire Marshal or that office is not liable for claims for the loss of or
damages to the seized fireworks.
   (D)   This section does not affect the authority of peace officers, as
defined in R.C. § 2935.01, to make arrests for violations of this subchapter or
to seize fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported or used in
violation of this subchapter.
   (E)   Any fines imposed for a violation of this subchapter relating to the
sale, purchase, possession or discharge of fireworks shall be distributed as
set forth in R.C. § 3743.68(D).
(R.C. § 3743.68)
§ 92.24  SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR FIREWORKS SHOWROOM STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as described in division (A)(2) of this section, all
retail sales of 1.4G fireworks by a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler shall
only occur from an approved retail sales showroom on a licensed premises or
from a representative sample showroom as described in this section on a
licensed premises. For the purposes of this section, a retail sale includes the
transfer of the possession of the 1.4G fireworks from the licensed manufacturer
or wholesaler to the purchaser of the fireworks.
      (2)   Sales of 1.4G fireworks to a licensed exhibitor for a properly
permitted exhibition shall occur in accordance with the provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code and rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal under R.C. Chapter
119. Such rules shall specify, at a minimum, that the licensed exhibitor holds
a license under R.C. § 3743.51, that the exhibitor possesses a valid exhibition
permit issued in accordance with R.C. § 3743.54, and that the fireworks shipped
are to be used at the specifically permitted exhibition.
   (B)   All wholesale sales of fireworks by a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler shall only occur from a licensed premises to persons who intend to
resell the fireworks purchased at wholesale. A wholesale sale by a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler may occur as follows:
      (1)   The direct sale and shipment of fireworks to a person outside of
this state;
      (2)   From an approved retail sales showroom as described in this
section;
      (3)   From a representative sample showroom as described in this section;
      (4)   By delivery of wholesale fireworks to a purchaser at a licensed
premises outside of a structure or building on that premises. All other
portions of the wholesale sales transaction may occur at any location on a
licensed premises; and
      (5)   Any other method as described in rules adopted by the Fire Marshal
under R.C. Chapter 119.
   (C)   (1)   A licensed manufacturer or wholesaler shall only sell 1.4G
fireworks from a representative sample showroom or a retail sales showroom.
Each licensed premises shall only contain one sales structure.
      (2)   A representative sample showroom shall consist of a structure
constructed and maintained in accordance with the Nonresidential Building Code
adopted under R.C. Chapter 3781 and the Fire Code adopted under R.C. § 3737.82
for a use and occupancy group that permits mercantile sales. A representative
sample showroom shall not contain any pyrotechnics, pyrotechnic materials,
fireworks, explosives, explosive materials or any similar hazardous materials
or substances. A representative sample showroom shall be used only for the
public viewing of fireworks product representations, including paper materials,
packaging materials, catalogs, photographs or other similar product depictions.
The delivery of product to a purchaser of fireworks at a licensed premises that
has a representative sample structure shall not occur inside any structure on a
licensed premises. Such product delivery shall occur on the licensed premises
in a manner prescribed by rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   If a manufacturer or wholesaler elects to conduct sales from a
retail sales showroom, the showroom structures, to which the public may have
any access and in which employees are required to work, on all licensed
premises, shall comply with the following safety requirements:
         (a)   A fireworks showroom that is constructed or upon which expansion
is undertaken on and after June 30, 1997, shall be equipped with interlinked
fire detection, fire suppression, smoke exhaust and smoke evacuation systems
that are approved by the Superintendent of Industrial Compliance in the
Department of Commerce;
         (b)   A fireworks showroom that first begins to operate on or after
June 30, 1997, and to which the public has access for retail purposes shall not
exceed 5,000 square feet in floor area;
         (c)   A newly constructed or an existing fireworks showroom structure
that exists on September 23, 2008, but that, on or after September 23, 2008, is
altered or added to in a manner requiring the submission of plans, drawings,
specifications or data pursuant to R.C. § 3791.04, shall comply with a graphic
floor plan layout that is approved by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent
of Industrial Compliance showing width of aisles, parallel arrangement of
aisles to exits, number of exits per wall, maximum occupancy load, evacuation
plan for occupants, height of storage or display of merchandise and other
information as may be required by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent of
Industrial Compliance; and
         (d)   A fireworks showroom structure that exists on June 30, 1997,
shall be in compliance on or after June 30, 1997, with floor plans showing
occupancy load limits and internal circulation and egress patterns that are
approved by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent of Industrial Compliance,
and that are submitted under seal as required by R.C. § 3791.04.
   (D)   The safety requirements established in division (C) of this section
are not subject to any variance, waiver or exclusion pursuant to this chapter
or any applicable building code.
(R.C. § 3743.25)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25  STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful to store at any time within the municipality a quantity
of gunpowder or other similar explosive weighing in excess of 100 pounds.
Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacture or processing of explosives, felony provisions, see R.C.
§ 2923.17
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 92.40  REMOVAL OF FLAMMABLE MATERIALS OR OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Any flammable or combustible materials not arranged or stored in such a
manner as to afford reasonable safety against the danger of fire, or any matter
stored or arranged in such a manner as to impede or prevent access to, or exit
from, any premises in case of fire, shall be ordered by the Fire Chief to be
removed or rearranged in such manner as to eliminate any fire hazard. The order
shall be in writing and delivered to the owner, lessee or occupant of the
premises.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.41  PROTECTIVE APPLIANCES.
   If the Fire Chief finds upon inspection that the appliances for protection
against fire are wholly wanting or are inadequate in number, condition, size,
arrangement or efficiency for the reasonable protection of the premises against
fire, he or she shall cause an order in writing to be delivered to the owner,
lessee or occupant requiring the installation, replacement, or repair of
appliances adequate for the reasonable protection of the premises in case of
fire.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.42  COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER.
   An order to correct the hazardous conditions specified in either §
92.40 or
92.41 shall be directed to the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises,
building or structure, or to the person in control of the articles, material,
goods, wares or merchandise, or to the owner thereof, as the circumstances may
require. It is made the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises,
building or structure, and of the person in control of such articles,
materials, goods, wares and merchandise, or the owner thereof, to comply with
the order with all reasonable dispatch and diligence.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.43  WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of a
similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for such hazardous materials.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.44  HOTEL TO HAVE FIRE WARNING DEVICE PRODUCING VISIBLE SIGNAL.
   (A)   Every hotel shall have available at least one operational single
station automatic fire warning device approved by the Fire Chief that produces
a visible warning signal when activated by every product of combustion. The
device, at the discretion of the owner, may also be activated by an early
warning fire protection system. Hotels having fewer than 75 rooms shall have at
least one warning device available for its guests. Hotels having more than 75
rooms shall have available for its guests one device for every group of 75
rooms. Upon the request of a guest, such a device, if available, shall be
installed in the guest’s room.
   (B)   As used in this section, HOTEL means every establishment kept, used,
maintained, advertised or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping
accommodations are offered to guests in which five or more rooms are used for
accommodation of such guests, whether the rooms are in one or several
structures, except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 5739.09(G).
(R.C. §§ 3781.107, 5739.01(M))
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be fined not
more than $1,000.
(R.C. §§ 3791.02, 3791.03)
§ 92.45  FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Every building constructed in this municipality with floors used for
human occupancy located more than 75 feet in height above the lower level of
CJFED vehicle access shall have a fire suppression system installed and in
operation in conformity with the rules of the state Board of Building Standards
adopted pursuant to R.C. § 3781.10.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM.  Means a system that includes devices and
equipment to detect a fire, actuates an alarm, and suppress or control a fire.
      HUMAN OCCUPANCY.  Does not include floors of buildings where occupancy by
humans is limited to ingress, egress and limited access for maintenance and
repair.
(R.C. § 3781.108(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be fined not
more than $1,000.
(R.C. §§ 3791.02, 3791.03)
§ 92.46  VIOLATIONS OF STATE FIRE CODE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly violate any provision of the State Fire Code
or any order made pursuant to it.
(R.C. § 3737.51(A))
   (B)   Except as a violation of R.C. § 2923.17, regarding the felonies of
unlawful possession of a dangerous ordnance and illegal manufacture or
processing of explosives, involves subject matter covered by the State Fire
Code, whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(B))
Statutory reference:
   Fire Code violations, see R.C. §§ 3737.41 et seq.
   Ohio Fire Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 1301:7-7
§ 92.47  POSTING ARSON NOTICES IN HOTELS, MOTELS AND OTHER PLACES.
   (A)   The owner, operator or lessee of any hotel, motel or transient
residential building shall post the provisions of R.C. §§ 2909.02 and 2909.03,
regarding aggravated arson and arson, in a conspicuous place in each room
occupied by guests in such building. The owner, operator or lessee of any
nontransient residential building, institution, school or place of assembly
shall post the provisions of such sections in conspicuous places upon such
premises. No person shall fail to comply with this section.
(R.C. § 3737.61)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3737.99(C))
§ 92.48  NEGLIGENT BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall set, kindle, or cause to be set or kindled any fire
which, through his or her negligence, spreads beyond its immediate confines to
any structure, field or wooded lot.
(R.C. § 3737.62)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(D))
Cross-reference:
   Arson, see §
131.02
§ 92.49  SPREADING ALARM OF UNFRIENDLY FIRE.
   (A)   The owner, operator or lessee, an employee of any owner, operator or
lessee, an occupant, and any person in direct control of any building regulated
under the state building code, upon the discovery of an unfriendly fire, or
upon receiving information that there is an unfriendly fire upon the premises,
shall immediately, and with all reasonable dispatch and diligence, call or
otherwise notify the CJFED concerning the fire, and shall spread an alarm
immediately to all occupants of the building.
   (B)   As used in this section, UNFRIENDLY FIRE means a fire of a destructive
nature as distinguished from a controlled fire intended for a beneficial
purpose.
(R.C. § 3737.63)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(E))
§ 92.50  UNVENTED HEATERS.
   (A)   The use of a brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace,
water heater or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel and
tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases must comply with the
following provisions;
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory or industrial buildings which are provided
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (A)(1) or used
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (B)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (C)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge
or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or heater in
violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in this
section.
   (D)   Division (A) above does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device, or to
any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater that
is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and that has its
fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is located, that are
approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State Fire Marshal in the
State Fire Code adopted by him or her under R.C. § 3737.82.
   (E)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (A) above when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings and type R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under R.C. § 3781.10. No
person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this division (E).
   (F)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division (F).
   (G)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F or 37.8°C shall be sold, offered for sale or used in
any kerosene space heater.
   (H)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural gas
or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered for
sale or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum
gas space heater.
   (I)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural gas
or liquid petroleum gas-fired heater that is not exempt from division (A)
above, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use.”
   (J)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or
her under R.C. § 3737.82.
(R.C. § 3701.82)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(B))
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.65  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General definitions.  For the purpose of this subchapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any waste material generated by crop, horticultural,
or livestock production practices, and includes such items as woody debris and
plant matter from stream flooding, bags, cartons, structural materials, and
landscape wastes that are generated in agricultural activities, but does not
include land clearing waste; buildings (including dismantled/fallen barns);
garbage; dead animals; animal waste; motor vehicles and parts thereof; nor
economic poisons and containers thereof, unless the manufacturer has identified
open burning as a safe disposal procedure.
      AIR CURTAIN BURNER. An engineered apparatus consisting of a motorized
high-velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in the
efficient combustion of materials placed in a manufactured steel structure and
for which a permit-to-install has been obtained as required in O.A.C. Chapter
3745-31 and a permit-to-operate has been obtained as required in O.A.C. Chapter
3745-77.
      AIR CURTAIN DESTRUCTOR. An engineered apparatus consisting of a motorized
high- velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in the
efficient combustion of materials placed in an adjacent pit. An air curtain
burner may be used in place of an air curtain destructor, but an air curtain
destructor may not be used in place of an air curtain burner.
      ECONOMIC POISONS. Include but are not restricted to pesticides such as
insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides, miticides, nematocides and fumigants;
herbicides; seed disinfectants; and defoliants.
      EMERGENCY BURNING. The burning of clean wood waste or deceased animals
caused by a natural disaster or an uncontrolled event such as the following:
         (a)   A tornado.
         (b)   High winds.
         (c)   An earthquake.
         (d)   An explosion.
         (e)   A flood.
         (f)   A hail storm, a rain storm, or an ice storm.
      GARBAGE. Any waste material resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food or food products.
      INHABITED BUILDING. Any inhabited private dwelling house and any public
structure which may be used as a place of resort, assembly, education,
entertainment, lodging, trade, manufacture, repair, storage, traffic, or
occupancy by the public. Examples would include, but are not limited to,
highway rest stops, restaurants, motels, hotels and gas stations.
      LAND CLEARING WASTE. Plant waste material which is removed from land,
including plant waste material removed from stream banks during projects
involving more than one property owner, for the purpose of rendering the land
useful for residential, commercial, or industrial development. Land clearing
waste also includes the plant waste material generated during the clearing of
land for new agricultural development.
      LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any plant waste material, except garbage, including
trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings, and crop residues.
      OHIO EPA. The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Director or agencies
delegated authority by the Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
pursuant to R.C. § 3704.03 or the Chief of any Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency District Office.
      OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without
passing through a stack or chimney. Open burning includes the burning of any
refuse or salvageable material in any device not subject to or designed
specifically to comply with the requirements of O.A.C. 3745-17-09 or O.A.C.
3745-17-10.
      RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Any waste material, including landscape waste,
generated on the property of a one-, two- or three-family residence as a result
of residential activities, but not including garbage, rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products, or plastics.
      RESTRICTED AREA. The area within the boundary of the municipality, plus a
zone extending 1,000 feet beyond the boundaries of a municipality having a
population of 1,000 to 10,000 persons and a zone extending one mile beyond any
municipality having a population of 10,000 persons or more according to the
latest federal census.
      UNRESTRICTED AREA. All areas outside the boundaries of a restricted area
as defined in this section.
   (B)   Referenced materials. This subchapter includes references to certain
matter or materials. The text of the referenced materials is not included in
the legislation contained in this subchapter. Information on the availability
of the referenced materials as well as the date of, and/or the particular
edition or version of the material is included in this legislation. For
materials subject to change, only the specific versions specified in this
legislation are referenced. Material is referenced as it exists on the
effective date of this legislation. Except for subsequent annual publication of
existing (unmodified) Code of Federal Regulation compilations, any amendment or
revision to a referenced document is not applicable unless and until this
section has been amended to specify the new dates.
      (1)   Availability. The referenced materials are available as follows:
         (a)   Clean Air Act. Information and copies may be obtained by writing
to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO Box 371954, Pittsburgh,
PA 15250-7954. The full text of the act as amended in 1990 is also available in
electronic format at www.epa.gov/oar/caa/. A copy of the act is also available
for inspection and use at most public libraries and the State Library of Ohio.
         (b)   Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.). Information and copies may
be obtained by writing to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO
Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. The full text of the C.F.R. is also
available in electronic format at http://www.ecfr.gov. The C.F.R. compilations
are also available for inspection and use at most public libraries and the
State Library of Ohio.
         (c)   National Fire Protection Association. Information on the
National Fire Protection Association codes may be obtained by contacting the
Association at 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts 02169-7471, 617-770-
3000. Codes may be ordered at www.nfpa.org/catalog/home/index.asp. Copies of
the code exist or are available at most public libraries and the State Library
of Ohio.
      (2)   Referenced materials.
         (a)   40 C.F.R. § 60.2974: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2012 Code of
Federal Regulations.
         (b)   40 C.F.R. § 60.3069: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2012 Code of
Federal Regulations.
         (c)   NFPA publication 1403: “Standard on Live Fire Training
Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures” published April 30, 2007.
         (d)   Section 129 of the Clean Air Act, contained in 42 U.S.C. § 7429:
“Solid waste combustion” published January 2, 2006 in Supplement V of the 2000
Edition of the United States Code.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-01)
§ 92.66  RELATIONS TO OTHER PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision in O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19, no open
burning shall be conducted in an area where an air alert, warning or emergency
under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-25 is in effect.
   (B)   No provisions of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 permitting open burning, and
no permission to open burn granted by the Ohio EPA, shall exempt any person
from compliance with any section of the Ohio Revised Code, or any regulation of
any state department, or any local ordinance or regulation dealing with open
burning.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-02)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.67  OPEN BURNING IN RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   No person or property owner shall cause or allow open burning in a
restricted area except as provided in divisions (B) to (D) of this section or
in R.C. § 3704.11.
   (B)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
notification to or permission from the Ohio EPA:
      (1)   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares,
heating for warmth of outdoor workers and strikers, smudge pots and similar
occupational needs;
      (2)   Bonfires, campfires and outdoor fireplace equipment, whether for
cooking food for human consumption, pleasure, religious, ceremonial, warmth,
recreational or similar purposes, if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood;
         (b)   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
         (c)   They shall have a total fuel area of three feet or less in
diameter and two feet or less in height.
      (3)   Disposal of hazardous explosive materials, military munitions or
explosive devices that require immediate action to prevent endangerment of
human health, public safety, property or the environment and that are excluded
from the requirement to obtain a hazardous waste permit pursuant to O.A.C.
3745-50-45(D)(1)(d);
      (4)   Recognized training in the use of fire extinguishers for commercial
or industrial fire prevention; and
      (5)   Fires set at the direction of federal, state, and local law
enforcement officials for the purpose of destruction of cannabis sativa
(marijuana) plant vegetation, processed marijuana material and/or other drugs
seized by federal, state, or local law enforcement officials.
      (6)   Fires allowed by divisions (B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this
section shall not be used for waste disposal purposes and shall be of minimum
size sufficient for their intended purpose; the fuel shall be chosen to
minimize the generation and emission of air contaminants.
   (C)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes with prior
notification to the Ohio EPA in accordance with §
92.68(B):
      (1)   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written or verbal
verification to the Ohio EPA from the Ohio Department of Health or local health
department, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, cooperative
extension service, Ohio Department of Agriculture or United States Department
of Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method;
      (2)   Bonfires or campfires used for ceremonial purposes that do not meet
the requirements of division (B)(2) of this section, provided the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   They have a total fuel area no greater than five feet in
diameter by five feet in height and burn no longer than three hours;
         (b)   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
         (c)   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood.
      (3)   Disposal of agricultural waste generated on the premises if the
following conditions are observed:
         (a)   The fire is set only when atmospheric conditions will readily
dissipate contaminants;
         (b)   The fire does not create a visibility hazard on the roadways,
railroad tracks or air fields;
         (c)   The fire is located at a point on the premises no less than
1,000 feet from any inhabited building not located on said premises;
         (d)   The wastes are stacked and dried to provide the best practicable
condition for efficient burning; and
         (e)   No materials are burned which contain rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products, plastics or building materials.
   (D)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon receipt
of written permission from the Ohio EPA, in accordance with §
92.68(A), provided that any conditions specified in the permission are
followed:
      (1)   Disposal of ignitable or explosive materials where the Ohio EPA
determines that there is no practical alternate method of disposal, excluding
those materials identified in division (B)(3) of this section;
      (2)   Instruction in methods of firefighting or for research in the
control of fires as recognized by the State Fire Marshal Division of the Ohio
Department of Commerce and the guidelines set forth in the National Fire
Protection Association’s (NFPA) publication 1403, Standard on Live Fire
Training Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures, provided that the
application required in §
92.68(A)(1) is submitted by the commercial or public entity responsible for the
instruction;
      (3)   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any purpose
determined to be necessary by the Director and performed as identified in the
appendix to O.A.C. 3745-19-03. If deemed necessary, the open burning may be
authorized with prior oral approval by the Director followed by the issuance of
a written permission to open burn within seven working days of the oral
approval;
      (4)   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural (forestry), range or
wildlife management practices; and
      (5)   Fires and/or pyrotechnic effects, for purposes other than waste
disposal, set as part of commercial film-making or video production activities
for motion pictures and television.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-03)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.68  PERMISSION AND NOTICE TO OPEN BURN.
   (A)   Permission.
      (1)   An application for permission to open burn shall be submitted in
writing to Ohio EPA. The applicant shall allow Ohio EPA at least ten working
days to review the permit. Applicant may proceed with burn upon receipt of
written permission from Ohio EPA. Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays shall not
be considered working days. The application shall be in such form and contain
such information as required by the Ohio EPA.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (A)(6) and (A)(7) of this section,
such applications shall contain, as a minimum, information regarding:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The quantity or acreage and the nature of the materials to be
burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place;
         (d)   The location of the burning site, including a map showing
distances to residences, populated areas, roadways, air fields and other
pertinent landmarks; and
         (e)   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the
emissions of air contaminants.
      (3)   Permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Ohio EPA that open burning is necessary
to the public interest; will be conducted in a time, place and manner as to
minimize the emission of air contaminants, when atmospheric conditions are
appropriate; and will have no serious detrimental effect upon adjacent
properties or the occupants thereof. The Ohio EPA may impose such conditions as
may be necessary to accomplish the purpose of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (A)(6) of this section, permission
to open burn must be obtained for each specific project. In emergencies where
public health or environmental quality will be seriously threatened by delay
while written permission is sought, the fire may be set with oral permission of
the Ohio EPA.
      (5)   Violations of any of the conditions set forth by the Ohio EPA in
granting permission to open burn shall be grounds for revocation of such
permission and refusal to grant future permission, as well as for the
imposition of other sanctions provided by law.
      (6)   The Ohio Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal,
may request permission to open burn on an annual basis for the purpose of
training firefighters on pre-flashover conditions using the Ohio Fire Academy’s
mobile training laboratory at either the academy or at other training sites in
Ohio. The annual application required pursuant to division (A)(1) of this
section shall contain information as required in division (A)(2) of this
section, except the information required in divisions (A)(2)(c) and (A)(2)(d)
of this section need not be provided unless it is available at the time of
submittal of the application. The Academy shall contact the appropriate Ohio
EPA District Office or local air agency at least five working days before each
training session of the date or dates when the training session will take place
and its location. Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays shall not be considered a
working day.
      (7)   For open burning defined under §
92.67(D)(2) and O.A.C. 3745-19-04(C)(2), permission to open burn shall not be
granted unless the applicant provides proof of written notice of intent to
demolish received by the appropriate Ohio EPA field office in accordance with
O.A.C. 3745-20-03.
   (B)   Notification.
      (1)   Notification shall be submitted in writing at least ten working
days before the fire is to be set. Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays shall
not be considered a working day. It shall be in such form and contain such
information as shall be required by the Ohio EPA.
      (2)   Such notification shall inform the Ohio EPA regarding:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The nature and quantities of materials to be burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place; and
         (d)   The location of the burning site.
      (3)   The Ohio EPA, after receiving notification, may determine that the
open burning is not allowed under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 and the Ohio EPA shall
notify the applicant to this effect.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-05)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.69  BONFIRE AND OUTDOOR RUBBISH FIRES.
   (A)   General.  Burning of rubbish shall be prohibited except in approved
incinerators. Bonfires may be permitted only under the following conditions and
subject to the air pollution provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Permit required.  A person shall not kindle or maintain any bonfire or
authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on any premises without
having obtained a permit or other proper authorization from the fire official.
All permits shall be requested by and issued to the owner of the land upon
which the bonfire is to be kindled.
   (C)   Location restricted.  A person shall not kindle or maintain any
bonfire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained unless:
      (1)   The location is approved by the fire official and is not less than
50 feet from any structure and adequate provision is made to prevent fire from
spreading to within 50 feet of any structure; or
      (2)   The fire is contained in an approved burner located safely not less
than 15 feet from any structure.
   (D)   Bonfire material.  Fuel for bonfires shall consist of seasoned dry
wood only and shall be ignited with a small quantity of paper only. Bonfires
shall not contain any rubbish, garbage, trash, any material made of or coated
with rubber, plastic, leather or petroleum based materials and shall not
contain any flammable or combustible liquids. The allowable quantity of wood to
be burnt shall be determined by the fire official and shall be based upon the
fire safety requirements of the situation and the desirable duration of burn.
   (E)   Attendance at open fires.  Bonfires shall be constantly attended by a
competent person until such fire is extinguished. This person shall have fire
extinguishing equipment readily available for use as deemed necessary by the
fire official.
   (F)   Prohibited bonfires. The fire official may prohibit any or all
bonfires when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fire
hazardous or which are or could be offensive or objectionable due to smoke or
odor emissions. The fire official shall order the extinguishment, by the permit
holder or the Fire Division, of any bonfire which creates or adds to a
hazardous or objectionable situation.
(1997 Code, § 92.19)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   General fire code regulations, see O.A.C. § 1301:7-7-03
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of
this section, whoever violates any provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.22 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 3743.60(I) or R.C. § 3743.61(I), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a violation of §
92.18(E) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
92.20(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any
other penalties that may be imposed on a licensed exhibitor of fireworks under
this division (B) and unless the third sentence of this division (B)(3)
applies, the person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an assistant
exhibitor of fireworks shall be suspended, and the person is ineligible to
apply for either type of licence, for a period of five years. If the violation
of §
92.20(A) results in serious physical harm to persons or serious physical harm
to property, the person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an
assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be revoked, and that person is
ineligible to apply for a license as or to be licensed as an exhibitor of
fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of fireworks in this state.
(R.C. § 3743.99(C), (D))
Statutory reference:
   Civil penalties for violations of State Fire Code, see R.C. § 3737.51(B)
through (H)
CHAPTER 93:  INTOXICATING LIQUORS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Exemptions from chapter
   
93.03   Restrictions applicable to sale of beer and intoxicating liquor for
consumption on the premises
   
93.04   Restrictions on sale of beer and liquor
   
93.05   Permit required; activities prohibited without permit
   
93.06   Illegal transportation prohibited
   
93.07   Open container prohibited; exception
   
93.08   Underage person shall not purchase intoxicating liquor or beer
   
93.09   Prohibitions; minors under 18 years; low-alcohol beverages
   
93.10   Alcohol vaporizing devices prohibited
   
93.11   Misrepresentation to obtain alcoholic beverage for a minor prohibited
   
93.12   Misrepresentation by a minor under 21 years
   
93.13   Sale to underage persons prohibited
   
93.14   Posting of card
   
93.15   Good faith acceptances of spurious identification
   
93.16   Consumption in motor vehicle prohibited
   
93.17   Hours of sale or consumption
   
93.18   Obstructing search of premises prohibited
   
93.19   Illegal possession of intoxicating liquor prohibited
   
93.20   Sale or possession of diluted liquor and refilled containers prohibited
   
93.21   Keeping place where beer or intoxicating liquors are sold in violation
of law
   
93.22   Intoxicating liquors shall not be sold in brothels
   
93.23   Use of intoxicating liquor in a public dance hall prohibited;
exceptions
   
93.24   Poisonously adulterated liquors
   
93.25   Tavern keeper permitting rioting or drunkenness
   
93.26   Notice of action to prohibit liquor business
   
93.27   Procedure when injunction violated
   
93.28   Liquor transaction scans
   
93.29   Affirmative defenses
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driving while intoxicated or drugged, implied consent, see §§
73.01,
73.02
Statutory reference:
   Liquor permits, see R.C. Chapter 4303
   Local option elections, see R.C. §§ 4301.32 et seq.
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 93.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL.  Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or not,
whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term does
not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   AT RETAIL.  For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for resale.
   BEER.  Includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in part from
malt products and containing 0.5% or more, but not more than 12%, of alcohol by
volume.
   CIDER.  All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that contain
0.5% of alcohol by volume, but not more than 6% of alcohol by weight that are
made through the normal alcoholic fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe
apples, including, without limitation, flavored, sparkling or carbonated cider
and cider made from pure condensed apple must.
   CLUB.  A corporation or association of individuals organized in good faith
for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic or athletic purposes, which is the owner, lessor or occupant of a
permanent building or part of a permanent building operated solely for such
purposes, membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and
includes the place so operated.
   COMMUNITY FACILITY.  Means either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency or a
political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from, the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state, or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to R.C. § 351.02; or
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to R.C. § 4301.80.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGE CABINET.  A closed container, either
refrigerated, in whole or in part, or nonrefrigerated, access to the interior
of which is restricted by means of a device that requires the use of a key,
magnetic card or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor, other
beverages or food may be sold.
   HOTEL.  The same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01, subject to the exceptions
mentioned in R.C. § 3731.03.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR.  All liquids and compounds, other than beer,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume which are fit to use for beverage
purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process produced, by whatever
name called, and whether they are medicated, proprietary or patented. The terms
include cider and alcohol, and all solids and confections which contain 0.5% or
more of alcohol by volume.
   LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGE.  Any brewed or fermented malt product or any product
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits or other agricultural products
that contains either no alcohol or less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume. The
beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink such as root
beer, birch beer or ginger beer.
   MANUFACTURE.  All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is
produced, whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending,
fermentation, brewing or in any other manner.
   MANUFACTURER.  Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing beer or
intoxicating liquor.
   MIXED BEVERAGES.  Include bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails,
highballs, and solids and confections that are obtained by mixing any type of
whiskey, neutral spirits, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits with, or over,
carbonated or plain water, pure juices from flowers and plants, and other
flavoring materials. The completed product shall contain not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume.
   NIGHTCLUB.  A place habitually operated for profit, where food is served for
consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are provided or
permitted for a consideration that may be in the form of a cover charge or may
be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both, purchased by
patrons.
   PERSON.  Includes firms and corporations.
   PHARMACY.  An establishment as defined in R.C. § 4729.01, that is under the
management or control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with R.C. §
4729.27.
   RESTAURANT.  A place located in a permanent building provided with space and
accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot meals are
habitually prepared, sold and served at noon and evening, as the principal
business of the place. The term does not include pharmacies, confectionery
stores, lunch stands, nightclubs and filling stations.
   SALE and SELL. The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant to
R.C. § 4301.21. Such terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders for
beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issued by the Division
of Liquor Control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating liquor, but
no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been registered
with the Division pursuant to R.C. § 4303.25.
   SALES AREA OR TERRITORY.  An exclusive geographic area or territory that is
assigned to a particular A or B permit holder and that either has one or more
political subdivisions as its boundaries or consists of an area of land with
readily identifiable geographic boundaries. The term does not include, however,
any particular retail location in an exclusive geographic area or territory
that had been assigned to another A or B permit holder before April 9, 2001.
   SEALED CONTAINER.  Any container having a capacity of not more than 128
fluid ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of air.
   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR.  All intoxicating liquors containing more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
   VEHICLE.  All means of transportation by land, by water or by air, and
everything made use of in any way for such transportation.
   WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTOR and DISTRIBUTOR.  A person engaged in the business of
selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   WINE.  All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not less than
0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume, which is
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits or other agricultural
products. Except as provided in R.C. § 4301.01(B)(3), the term does not include
cider.
(R.C. § 4301.01)
§ 93.02  EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter do not prevent the following:
   (A)   The storage of intoxicating liquor in bonded warehouses, established
in accordance with the Acts of Congress and under the regulation of the United
States, located in the municipality, or the transportation of intoxicating
liquor to or from bonded warehouses of the United States wherever located;
   (B)   A bona fide resident of this state who is the owner of a warehouse
receipt from obtaining or transporting to the resident’s residence for the
resident’s own consumption and not for resale spirituous liquor stored in a
government bonded warehouse in this state or in another state prior to December
1933, subject to such terms as are prescribed by the Division of Liquor
Control;
   (C)   The manufacture of cider from fruit for the purpose of making vinegar,
and nonintoxicating cider and fruit juices for use and sale;
   (D)   A licensed physician or dentist from administering or dispensing
intoxicating liquor or alcohol to a patient in good faith in the actual course
of the practice of the physician’s or dentist’s profession;
   (E)   The sale of alcohol to physicians, dentists, druggists, veterinary
surgeons, manufacturers, hospitals, infirmaries or medical or educational
institutions using the alcohol for medicinal, mechanical, chemical or
scientific purposes;
   (F)   The sale, gift or keeping for sale by druggists and others of any of
the medicinal preparations manufactured in accordance with the formulas
prescribed by the United States Pharmacopoeia and National Formulary, patent or
proprietary preparations, and other bona fide medicinal and technical
preparations, which contain no more alcohol than is necessary to hold the
medicinal agents in solution and to preserve the same, which are manufactured
and sold as medicines and not as beverages, are unfit for use for beverage
purposes, and the sale of which does not require the payment of a United States
liquor dealer’s tax;
   (G)   The manufacture and sale of tinctures or of toilet, medicinal and
antiseptic preparations and solutions not intended for internal human use nor
to be sold as beverages, and which are unfit for beverage purposes, if upon the
outside of each bottle, box or package of which there is printed in English,
conspicuously and legibly, the quantity by volume of alcohol in the preparation
or solution;
   (H)   The manufacture and keeping for sale of the food products known as
flavoring extracts when manufactured and sold for cooking, culinary or
flavoring purposes, and which are unfit for use for beverage purposes;
   (I)   The lawful sale of wood alcohol or of ethyl alcohol for external use
when combined with other substances as to make it unfit for internal use;
   (J)   The manufacture, sale and transport of ethanol or ethyl alcohol for
use as fuel. As used in this division (J), ETHANOL has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5733.46;
   (K)   The purchase and importation into the municipality or the purchase at
wholesale from A or B permit holders in this state of beer and intoxicating
liquor for use in manufacturing processes of nonbeverage food products under
terms prescribed by the Division, provided that the terms prescribed by the
Division shall not increase the cost of the beer or intoxicating liquor to any
person, firm or corporation purchasing and importing it into this municipality
or purchasing it from an A or B permit holder for that use;
   (L)   Any resident of this state or any member of the armed forces of the
United States who has attained the age of 21 years from bringing into this
municipality for personal use and not for resale not more than one liter of
spirituous liquor, four and one-half liters of wine or 288 ounces of beer in
any 30-day period, and the same is free of any tax consent fee when the
resident or member of the armed forces physically possesses and accompanies the
spirituous liquor, wine or beer on returning from a foreign country, another
state or an insular possession of the United States;
   (M)   Persons at least 21 years of age who collect ceramic commemorative
bottles containing spirituous liquor that have unbroken federal tax stamps on
them from selling or trading the bottles to other collectors. The bottles shall
originally have been purchased at retail from the Division, legally imported
under division (L) of this section, or legally imported pursuant to a supplier
registration issued by the Division. The sales shall be for the purpose of
exchanging a ceramic commemorative bottle between private collectors and shall
not be for the purpose of selling the spirituous liquor for personal
consumption. The sale or exchange authorized by this division (M) shall not
occur on the premises of any permit holder, shall not be made in connection
with the business of any permit holder, and shall not be made in connection
with any mercantile business;
   (N)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor without a liquor permit at a
private residence, not more than five times per calendar year at a residence
address, at an event that has the following characteristics:
      (1)   The event is for a charitable, benevolent or political purpose, but
shall not include any event the proceeds of which are for the profit or gain of
any individual;
      (2)   The event has in attendance not more than 50 people;
      (3)   The event shall be for a period not to exceed 12 hours;
      (4)   The sale of beer and intoxicating liquor at the event shall not
take place between 2:30 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.;
      (5)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or consume beer or
intoxicating liquor at the event and no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be
sold to any person under 21 years of age at the event; and
      (6)   No person at the event shall sell or furnish beer or intoxicating
liquor to an intoxicated person.
   (O)   The possession or consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor by a
person who is under 21 years of age and who is a student at an accredited
college or university, provided that both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is required to taste and expectorate the beer or
intoxicating liquor for a culinary, food service or hospitality course; and
      (2)   The person is under the direct supervision of the instructor of the
culinary, food service or hospitality course.
(R.C. § 4301.20)
§ 93.03  RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO SALE OF BEER AND INTOXICATING LIQUOR FOR
CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES.
   (A)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the
premises is subject to the following restrictions, in addition to those imposed
by the rules and orders of the Division of Liquor Control:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter
4301, beer or intoxicating liquor may be served to a person not seated at a
table unless there is reason to believe that the beer or intoxicating liquor so
served will be consumed by a person under 21 years of age;
      (2)   Beer or intoxicating liquor may be served by a hotel in the room of
a bona fide guest, and may be sold by a hotel holding a D-5a permit, or a hotel
holding a D-3 or D-5 permit that otherwise meets all of the requirements for
holding a D-5a permit, by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage
cabinet that shall be located only in the hotel room of a registered guest. A
hotel may sell beer or intoxicating liquor as authorized by its permit to a
registered guest by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet
in accordance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Only a person 21 years of age or older who is a guest registered
to stay in a guestroom shall be provided a key, magnetic card or other similar
device necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet in that guestroom;
         (b)   The hotel shall comply with R.C. § 4301.22, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in connection with the handling, restocking and
replenishing of the beer and intoxicating liquor in the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet;
         (c)   The hotel shall replenish or restock beer and intoxicating
liquor in any controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet only during the
hours during which the hotel may serve or sell beer and intoxicating liquor;
         (d)   The registered guest shall verify in writing that the guest has
read and understands the language that shall be posted on the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet as required by division (A)(2)(e) of this section;
         (e)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant
to division (A)(2) of this section shall post on the controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet, in conspicuous language, the following notice:
            The alcoholic beverages contained in this cabinet shall not be
removed from the premises.
         (f)   The hotel shall maintain a record of each sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor made by the hotel by means of a controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet for any period in which the permit holder is authorized to
hold the permit pursuant to R.C. §§ 4303.26 and 4303.27 and any additional
period during which an applicant exercises its right to appeal a rejection by
the Division of Liquor Control to renew a permit pursuant to R.C. § 4303.271.
The records maintained by the hotel shall comply with both of the following:
            1.   Include the name, address, age and signature of each hotel
guest who is provided access by the hotel to a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet pursuant to division (A)(2)(a) of this section; and
            2.   Be made available during business hours to authorized agents
of the Division of Liquor Control pursuant to R.C. § 4301.10(A)(6) or to
enforcement agents of the Department of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. §§
5502.13 through 5502.19.
         (g)   The hotel shall observe all other applicable rules adopted by
the Division of Liquor Control and the Liquor Control Commission.
      (3)   The seller shall not require the purchase of food with the purchase
of beer or intoxicating liquor; nor shall the seller of beer or intoxicating
liquor give away food of any kind in connection with the sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor, except as authorized by rule of the state Liquor Control
Commission;
      (4)   The seller shall not permit the purchaser to remove beer or
intoxicating liquor so sold from the premises; and
      (5)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant to
division (A)(2) of this section shall provide a registered guest with the
opportunity to refuse to accept a key, magnetic card or other similar device
necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet in that guest room. If a registered guest refuses to accept
such key, magnetic card or other similar device, the hotel shall not assess any
charges on the registered guest for use of the controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet in that guest room.
(R.C. § 4301.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 93.04  RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OF BEER AND LIQUOR.
   (A)   Restrictions on sales.  Sales of beer and intoxicating liquor under
all classes of permits and from liquor stores are subject to the following
restrictions, in addition to those imposed by the rules or orders of the State
Division of Liquor Control.
      (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C.
Chapter 4301, no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be sold to any person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under 18
years of age. No permit issued by the Division shall be suspended, revoked or
cancelled because of a violation of this division (A)(1)(b).
         (c)   No intoxicating liquor shall be handled by any person under 21
years of age, except that a person 18 years of age or older employed by a
permit holder may handle or sell beer or intoxicating liquor in sealed
containers in connection with wholesale or retail sales, and any person 19
years of age or older employed by a permit holder may handle intoxicating
liquor in open containers when acting in the capacity of a server in a hotel,
restaurant, club or night club, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, or in the
premises of a D-7 permit holder. This section does not authorize persons under
21 years of age to sell intoxicating liquor across a bar. Any person employed
by a permit holder may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in sealed containers
in connection with manufacturing, storage, warehousing, placement, stocking,
bagging, loading or unloading, and may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in
open containers in connection with cleaning tables or handling empty bottles or
glasses.
      (2)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
      (3)   (a)   No sales of intoxicating liquor shall be made after 2:30 a.m.
on Sunday, except under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   Intoxicating liquor may be sold on Sunday under authority of a
permit that authorizes Sunday sale; and
            2.   Spiritous liquor may be sold on Sunday by any person awarded
an agency contract under R.C. § 4301.17 if the sale of spiritous liquor is
authorized in the applicable precinct as the result of an election on question
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of R.C. § 4301.351 and if the agency contract authorizes the
sale of spiritous liquor on Sunday.
         (b)   This section does not prevent the municipality from adopting a
closing hour for the sale of intoxicating liquor earlier than 2:30 a.m. on
Sunday or to provide that no intoxicating liquor may be sold prior to that hour
on Sunday.
      (4)   No holder of a permit shall give away any beer or intoxicating
liquor of any kind at any time in connection with the permit holder’s business.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (A)(5), no retail
permit holder shall display or permit the display on the outside of any
licensed retail premises, on any lot of ground on which the licensed premises
are situated, or on the exterior of any building of which the licensed premises
are a part, any sign, illustration or advertisement bearing the name, brand
name, trade name, trademark, designation or other emblem of, or indicating the
manufacturer, producer, distributor, place of manufacture, production or
distribution of, any beer or intoxicating liquor. Signs, illustrations or
advertisements bearing the name, brand name, trade name, trademark, designation
or other emblem of or indicating the manufacturer, producer, distributor, place
of manufacture, production or distribution of beer or intoxicating liquor may
be displayed and permitted to be displayed on the interior or in the show
windows of any licensed premises, if the particular brand or type of product so
advertised is actually available for sale on the premises at the time of that
display. The Liquor Control Commission shall determine by rule the size and
character of those signs, illustrations or advertisements.
      (6)   No retail permit holder shall possess on the licensed premises any
barrel or other container from which beer is drawn, unless there is attached to
the spigot or other dispensing apparatus the name of the manufacturer of the
product contained in the barrel or other container, provided that, if the beer
is served at a bar, the manufacturer’s name or brand shall appear in full view
of the purchaser. The Commission shall regulate the size and character of the
devices provided for in this section.
      (7)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (A)(7), no sale of
any gift certificate shall be permitted whereby beer or intoxicating liquor of
any kind is to be exchanged for the certificate, unless the gift certificate
can be exchanged only for food, and beer or intoxicating liquor, for on-
premises consumption and the value of the beer or intoxicating liquor does not
exceed more than 30% of the total value of the gift certificate. The sale of
gift certificates for the purchase of beer, wine or mixed beverages shall be
permitted for the purchase of beer, wine or mixed beverages for off-premises
consumption. Limitations on the use of a gift certificate for the purchase of
beer, wine or mixed beverages for off-premises consumption may be expressed by
clearly stamping or typing on the face of the certificate that the certificate
may not be used for the purchase of beer, wine or mixed beverages for on-
premises consumption.
(R.C. § 4301.22)
   (B)   Division (A)(1) not modified or affected.  The provisions of R.C. §§
4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially equivalent municipal ordinances,
shall not be deemed to modify or affect division (A)(1) of this section or R.C.
§ 4301.22(A).
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(b) or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(c) or (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D), (H))
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of beer and liquor sales during emergency, see R.C. § 4301.251
§ 93.05  PERMIT REQUIRED; ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person personally or by the person’s clerk, agent or employee,
shall manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep or possess for sale,
furnish or sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or intoxicating
liquor in this state, or transport, import or cause to be transported or
imported any beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol in or into this municipality
for delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully complied with R.C.
Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued by the Division of
Liquor Control and in force at the time.
      (2)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker or
retailer of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain
or otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by R.C.
Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder. No function,
event or party shall take place at any location other than a liquor permit
premises where any person acts in any manner to sell, solicit, take orders or
receive offers to purchase or expressions of intent to purchase beer or
intoxicating liquor to or from any person, except as specifically authorized by
R.C. Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder.
(R.C. § 4303.25)
   (B)   Activities prohibited without permit.
      (1)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent or employee,
who is not the holder of an A permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control,
in force at the time, and authorizing the manufacture of beer or intoxicating
liquor, or who is not an agent or employee of the Department authorized to
manufacture beer or intoxicating liquor, shall manufacture any beer or
intoxicating liquor for sale, or shall manufacture spirituous liquor.
      (2)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent or employee,
who is not the holder of an A, B, C, D, E, F, G, I or S permit issued by the
Department, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale of beer,
intoxicating liquor or alcohol, or who is not an agent or employee of the
Department or the Tax Commissioner authorized to sell beer, intoxicating liquor
or alcohol, shall sell, keep or possess beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol
for sale to any persons other than those authorized by this chapter and R.C.
Chapters 4301 and 4303 to purchase any beer or intoxicating liquor, or sell any
alcohol at retail. This division (B)(2) does not apply to or affect the sale or
possession for sale of any low-alcohol beverage.
      (3)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent or employee,
who is the holder of a permit issued by the Department, shall sell, keep or
possess for sale any intoxicating liquor not purchased from the Department or
from the holder of a permit issued by the Department authorizing the sale of
intoxicating liquor, unless the same has been purchased with the special
consent of the Department. The Department shall revoke the permit of any person
convicted of a violation of this division (B)(3).
(R.C. § 4301.58)
   (C)   Penalty.  Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 93.06  ILLEGAL TRANSPORTATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, who is not the holder of an H permit shall transport beer,
intoxicating liquor or alcohol in this municipality. This section does not
apply to the transportation and delivery of beer, alcohol or intoxicating
liquor purchased or to be purchased from the holder of a permit issued by the
Division of Liquor Control, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale and
delivery of the beer, alcohol or intoxicating liquor so transported, or to the
transportation and delivery of beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol purchased
from the Department or the Tax Commissioner, or purchased by the holder of an A
or B permit outside this state, and transported within this municipality by
them in their own trucks for the purpose of sale under their permits.
(R.C. § 4301.60)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 93.07  OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE.  Means a vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      HIGHWAY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      STREET.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) of this section, in a
state liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, on the premises
of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking; and
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-5f, D-
5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, E, F, F-2, F-5,
F-7 or F-8 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit or wine served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission; and
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. § 4301.171.
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(3)(a) of this section:
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE.  Means a concert comprised of a group of
not fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER.  Means an outdoor performing arts
center that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is
attending an orchestral performance and the holder of the F-9 permit grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-
9 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(5) of this section, ORCHESTRAL
PERFORMANCE has the same meaning as in division (C)(3)(b) of this section.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(6)(a) of this section:
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY. An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine;
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located; and
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with; and
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (E)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 93.08  UNDERAGE PERSON SHALL NOT PURCHASE INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR BEER.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating liquor.
(R.C. § 4301.63)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of this section may
order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable
hour rate established by the court. The court shall designate the time within
which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
§ 93.09  PROHIBITIONS; MINORS UNDER 18 YEARS; LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section, UNDERAGE PERSON means a person under 18 years
of age.
   (B)   No underage person shall purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (C)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of or attempt
to purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low-alcohol beverage for an underage
person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (E)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning his or her name, age or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
municipality.
   (F)   No person shall sell or furnish any low-alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian.
   (G)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person’s
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low-alcohol beverage.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of division (G)(1) of this section that are committed by
a lessee of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the
lessee’s acts or omissions.
   (H)   No permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control shall be suspended,
revoked or cancelled because of a violation of either division (F) or (G) of
this section.
   (I)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless he or she is accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person or legal guardian, or unless the
low-alcohol beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of his or her
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (J)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(R.C. § 4301.631)
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no
other penalty is provided is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of
division (B) of this section may order that the fine be paid by the performance
of public work at a reasonable hour rate established by the court. The court
shall designate the time within which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
§ 93.10  ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICE means a machine or
other device that mixes beer or intoxicating liquor with pure oxygen or any
other gas to produce a vaporized product for the purpose of consumption by
inhalation.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale an alcohol vaporizing device.
   (C)   No person shall purchase or use an alcohol vaporizing device.
(R.C. § 4301.65)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
misdemeanor of the third degree. For a second or subsequent violation occurring
within a period of five consecutive years after the first violation, a person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(J))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 93.11  MISREPRESENTATION TO OBTAIN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE FOR A MINOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name, age or
other identification of any person under 21 years of age, for the purpose of
obtaining, or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor for a
person under 21 years of age, by purchase, or as a gift.
(R.C. § 4301.633)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 93.12  MISREPRESENTATION BY A MINOR UNDER 21 YEARS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in any
place in this municipality where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a
permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control, or sold by the Division of
Liquor Control.
(R.C. § 4301.634)
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first violation of
division (A), the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
      (2)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a false,
fictitious or altered identification card, a false or fictitious driver’s
license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued by any
state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operation privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (3)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than
six months. Except as provided in this division (B)(3), the court also may
impose a class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified
in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension or denial
remain in effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The court, in
lieu of suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary
driver’s license or driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform
a determinate number of hours of community service, with the court determining
the actual number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender
shall perform.
(R.C. § 4301.99(F))
§ 93.13  SALE TO UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person, shall
buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall furnish it to
an underage person unless given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician’s practice or given for established religious purposes or unless the
underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse who is not an underage person
or legal guardian. In proceedings before the Liquor Control Commission, no
permit holder, or no employee or agent of a permit holder, charged with a
violation of this division (A) shall be charged, for the same offense, with a
violation of R.C. § 4301.22(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place while
possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the intoxicating
liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that
person’s parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian and
the parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present
at the time of the person’s possession or consumption of the beer or
intoxicating liquor. An owner of a public or private place is not liable for
acts or omissions in violation of this division (B) that are committed by a
lessee of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s
acts or omissions.
   (C)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground or restaurant when the person knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and who is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person; or
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a licensed health professionals authorized
to prescribe drugs and has the drug of abuse in the original container in which
it was dispensed to the person.
   (D)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin or campground by an underage person or for an underage
person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason to know
that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person possesses
any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian who is or will be present at all
times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by the underage
person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (E)   (1)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the
cost of, attempt to purchase, possess or consume any beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public or private place. No underage person shall knowingly be
under the influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. The
prohibitions set forth in this division (E)(1) against an underage person
knowingly possessing, consuming or being under the influence of any beer or
intoxicating liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or
intoxicating liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician’s practice or given for established religious purposes.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is charged with violating division (E)(1) of this
section in a complaint filed under R.C. § 2151.27, the court may order the
child into a diversion program specified by the court and hold the complaint in
abeyance pending successful completion of the diversion program. A child is
ineligible to enter into a diversion program under this division (E)(2) if the
child previously has been diverted pursuant to this division (E)(2). If the
child completes the diversion program to the satisfaction of the court, the
court shall dismiss the complaint and order the child’s record in the case
sealed under R.C. §§ 2151.356 through 2151.358. If the child fails to
satisfactorily complete the diversion program, the court shall proceed with the
complaint.
         (b)   If a person is charged in a criminal complaint with violating
division (E)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2935.36 shall apply to the offense,
except that a person is ineligible for diversion under that section if the
person previously has been diverted pursuant to divisions (E)(2)(a) or (E)(2)
(b) of this section. If the person completes the diversion program to the
satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss the complaint and order the
record in the case sealed under R.C. § 2953.52. If the person fails to
satisfactorily complete the diversion program, the court shall proceed with the
complaint.
   (F)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person or legal guardian of a
minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or R.C. §
4301.63, 4301.633 or 4301.634, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (G)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin or campground.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      DRUG OF ABUSE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
      HOTEL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01.
      LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS.  Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      MINOR.  Means a person under the age of 18 years.
      PRESCRIPTION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      UNDERAGE PERSON.  Means a person under the age of 21 years.
(R.C. § 4301.69)
   (I)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances, shall not be deemed to modify or affect
divisions (A) through (H) of this section or R.C. § 4301.69.
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (J)   (1)   Except as provided in division (J)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If an
offender who violates division (E)(1) of this section was under the age of 18
years at the time of the offense and the offense occurred while the offender
was the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle, the court, in addition
to any other penalties it imposes upon the offender, shall suspend the
offender’s temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license for a
period of six months. If the offender is 15 years and six months of age or
older and has not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary
driver’s license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a
license or permit for a period of six months. If the offender has not attained
the age of 15 years and six months, the offender shall not be eligible to be
issued a temporary instruction permit until the offender attains the age of 16
years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and in
addition to the fine, may be imprisoned for a definite term of not more than
six months.
(R.C. § 4301.99(I))
Statutory reference:
   Changes to law if federal uniform drinking age repealed or declared
unconstitutional, see R.C. § 4301.691
§ 93.14  POSTING OF CARD.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.691, every place in
this municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor or any low-alcohol beverage
is sold for beverage purposes shall display at all times, in a prominent place
on the premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be furnished by the
Division of Liquor Control and which shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
   If you are under the age of 21
      Under the statutes of the State of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public place, or furnish false information as to name, age or
other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000, or
imprisonment up to six months, or both.
   If you are under the age of 18
      Under the statutes of the State of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or posses or consume, any type of beer or wine
that contains either no alcohol or less than one-half of one percent of alcohol
by volume in any public place, or furnish false information as to the name,
age, or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $250 or to
imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or the Liquor Control Commission for failing
to display this card. No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display this
card.
   (B)   (1)   Every place in this municipality for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the Division
of Liquor Control that shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING
   If you are carrying a firearm
      Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in which
liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been issued
under Chapter 4303 of the Revised Code, you may be guilty of a felony and may
be subjected to a prison term of up to one year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card. No permit issued by the Department
shall be suspended, revoked or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(R.C. § 4301.637)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed weapon, felony, see R.C. § 2923.12
   Possessing firearm in liquor permit premises, exceptions, defenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.121
§ 93.15  GOOD FAITH ACCEPTANCES OF SPURIOUS IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   No permit holder, agent or employee of a permit holder, or any other
person may be found guilty of a violation of any section of this chapter in
which age is any element of the offense, if any court of record finds all of
the following:
      (1)   That the person buying, at the time of so doing, exhibited to the
permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder, or the other person
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 through 4507.52, or a military identification card issued
by the United States Department of Defense, that displays a picture of the
individual for whom the license or card was issued and shows that the person
buying was then at least 21 years of age if the person was buying beer as
defined in R.C. § 4301.01 or intoxicating liquor, or that the person was then
at least 18 years of age if the person was buying any low-alcohol beverage;
      (2)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person made a bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the
person buying by checking the identification presented at the time of the
purchase to ascertain that the description on the identification compared with
the appearance of the buyer and that the identification presented had not been
altered in any way; and
      (3)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person had reason to believe that the person buying was of legal
age.
   (B)   The defense provided by division (A) of this section is in addition to
the affirmative defense provided by §
93.29.
(R.C. § 4301.639(A), (C))
§ 93.16  CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in R.C. § 4301.62(D)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4301.64)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties it
imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender’s temporary instruction
permit, probationary driver’s license or driver’s license for a period of not
less than six months and not more than one year. In lieu of suspending the
offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license or
driver’s license, the court instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court. If the
offender is 15 years and six months of age or older and has not been issued a
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license, the offender
shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a period of six
months. If the offender has not attained the age of 15 years and six months,
the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit
until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 93.17  HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages or spirituous liquor.
   (B)   (1)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages or spirituous liquor shall be
sold or delivered by an A-1, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-1, D-2,
D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5G, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-1,
F-2, F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, G or I permit holder from Monday to Saturday between
the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30 a.m. and on Sunday between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (2)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (C)   (1)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages or spirituous liquor shall be
sold or delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-
5B, D-5C, D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5I, D-5J or D-7 permit holder from Monday to
Saturday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:30 a.m. and on Sunday between the
hours of 2:30 a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless statutorily authorized
otherwise.
      (2)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (D)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in divisions
(B) or (C) above shall be subject to the provisions of division (B), unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
   (E)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to 5:30 a.m.
(O.A.C. § 4301:1-1-49)
   (F)   No association, corporation, local unit of an association or
corporation, or D permit holder who holds an F-2 permit shall sell beer or
intoxicating liquor beyond the hours of sale allowed by the permit. This
division (F) imposes strict liability on the holder of such permit and on any
officer, agent or employee of such permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.202(D)(2))
   (G)   No F-8 permit holder shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor beyond the
hours of sale allowed by the permit. This division (G) imposes strict liability
on the holder of an F-8 permit and on any officer, agent or employee of that
permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.208(C))
   (H)   Whoever violates divisions (F) or (G) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4303.99(D))  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18  OBSTRUCTING SEARCH OF PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hinder or obstruct any agent or employee of the
Division of Liquor Control, any enforcement agent of the Department of Public
Safety or any officer of the law from making an inspection or search of any
place, other than a bona fide private residence, where beer or intoxicating
liquor is possessed, kept, sold or given away.
(R.C. § 4301.66)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 93.19  ILLEGAL POSSESSION OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall have possession of any spirituous liquor, in excess of
one liter, in one or more containers, which was not purchased at wholesale or
retail from the Division of Liquor Control or otherwise lawfully acquired
pursuant to this chapter, R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or any other
intoxicating liquor or beer, in one or more containers, which was not lawfully
acquired pursuant to those chapters.
(R.C. § 4301.67)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 93.20  SALE OR POSSESSION OF DILUTED LIQUOR AND REFILLED CONTAINERS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale or possess with the intent to
sell intoxicating liquor in any original container which has been diluted,
refilled or partly refilled.
(R.C. § 4301.68)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 93.21  KEEPING PLACE WHERE BEER OR INTOXICATING LIQUORS ARE SOLD IN VIOLATION
OF LAW.
   (A)   No person shall keep a place where beer or intoxicating liquors are
sold, furnished or given away in violation of law. The court, on conviction for
a subsequent violation of this section, shall order the place where the beer or
intoxicating liquor is sold, furnished or given away to be abated as a nuisance
or shall order the person so convicted to give bond payable to the state in the
sum of $1,000, with sureties to the acceptance of the court, that the person
will not sell, furnish or give away beer or intoxicating liquor in violation of
law and will pay all fines, costs and damages assessed against the person for
that subsequent violation of this section. The giving away of beer or
intoxicating liquors, or any other device to evade this section, constitutes
unlawful selling.
   (B)   As used in this section, BEER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4301.01.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any premises for which
a permit has been issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 while that permit is in
effect.
(R.C. § 4399.09)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 on a first offense and shall be fined not less than $200 nor
more than $500 on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4399.99(B))
§ 93.22  INTOXICATING LIQUORS SHALL NOT BE SOLD IN BROTHELS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, exchange or give away intoxicating liquor in a
brothel.
(R.C. § 4399.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 and imprisoned not less than one nor more than six months.
(R.C. § 4399.99(C))
§ 93.23  USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR IN A PUBLIC DANCE HALL PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) of this section,
no person who is the proprietor of, or who conducts, manages or is in charge of
any public dance hall shall allow the use of any intoxicating liquor or the
presence of intoxicated persons in the public dance hall or on the premises on
which it is located.
      (2)   The prohibition against the use of any intoxicating liquor
contained in division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to establishments
that are holders of a D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4 or D-5 permit whose principal business
consists of conducting a hotel, a restaurant, a club or a nightclub, all as
defined in R.C. § 4301.01.
(R.C. § 4399.14)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(D))
§ 93.24  POISONOUSLY ADULTERATED LIQUORS.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sale, shall adulterate spirituous
liquor, alcoholic liquor or beer used or intended for drink or medicinal or
mechanical purposes, with cocculus indicus, vitriol, grains of paradise, opium,
alum, capsicum, copperas, laurel water, logwood, brazilwood, cochineal, sugar
of lead, aloes, glucose, tannic acid or any other substance that is poisonous
or injurious to health, or with a substance not a necessary ingredient in the
manufacture of the spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor or beer, or sell, offer
or keep for sale spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor or beer that is so
adulterated.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided in division (C) of this section,
a person convicted of violating this section shall pay all necessary costs and
expenses incurred in inspecting and analyzing spiritous liquor, alcoholic
liquor or beer that is so adulterated, sold, kept or offered for sale.
(R.C. § 4399.15)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $20 nor
more than $100, imprisoned not less than 20 nor more than 60 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(E))
§ 93.25  TAVERN KEEPER PERMITTING RIOTING OR DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   No tavern keeper shall permit rioting, intoxication or drunkenness in
or on his or her premises.
(R.C. § 4399.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $5 nor more
than $100.
(R.C. § 4399.99(A))
§ 93.26  NOTICE OF ACTION TO PROHIBIT LIQUOR BUSINESS.
   Any party bringing an action to prohibit the operation of a business under a
liquor permit issued pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 shall, upon filing the
complaint in the action, notify the Division of Liquor Control of the filing of
the complaint.
(R.C. § 4303.40)
§ 93.27  PROCEDURE WHEN INJUNCTION VIOLATED.
   (A)   Any person subject to an injunction, temporary or permanent, granted
pursuant to R.C. § 3767.05(D) or (E) involving a condition described in
division (3) of the definition of “nuisance” in R.C. § 3767.01, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall obey the injunction. If the
person violates the injunction, the court, or in vacation a judge thereof, may
summarily try and punish the violator. The proceedings for punishment for
contempt shall be commenced by filing with the Clerk of the court from which
the injunction issued, information under oath setting out the alleged facts
constituting the violation, whereupon the court shall cause a warrant to issue
under which the defendant shall be arrested. The trial may be had upon
affidavits, or either party may demand the production and oral examination of
the witnesses.
(R.C. § 4301.74)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 93.28  LIQUOR TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   As used in this section and §
93.29:
      CARD HOLDER.  Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a permit holder, or an agent or
employee of a permit holder, for either of the purposes listed in under
divisions (a) or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      IDENTIFICATION CARD.  Means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52.
      PERMIT HOLDER.  Means the holder of a permit issued under R.C. Chapter
4303.
      TRANSACTION SCAN.  Means the process by which a permit holder or an agent
or employee of a permit holder checks, by means of a transaction scan device,
the validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card that is presented as a condition for doing either of the following:
         (a)   Purchasing any beer, intoxicating liquor or low-alcohol
beverage; or
         (b)   Gaining admission to a premises that has been issued a liquor
permit authorizing the sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on
the premises where sold, and where admission is restricted to persons 21 years
of age or older.
      TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE.  Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
   (B)   (1)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may
perform a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card
presented by a card holder for either of the purposes listed in divisions (a)
or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (2)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(1) of this section fails to match the information printed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information so
printed is false or fraudulent, neither the permit holder nor any agent or
employee of the permit holder shall sell any beer, intoxicating liquor or low-
alcohol beverage to the card holder.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not preclude a permit holder
or an agent or employee of a permit holder from using a transaction scan device
to check the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or
magnetic strip that may be scanned by the device, as a condition of a sale
beer, intoxicating liquor or a low-alcohol beverage or of granting admission to
a premises described in the definition for “transaction scan”
   (C)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles, with the approval of the Liquor
Control Commission, shall adopt, and may amend or rescind, rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that do both of the following:
      (1)   Govern the recording and maintenance of information described in
R.C. § 4301.61(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b), R.C. § 2925.57(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b),
and R.C. § 2927.021(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b); and
      (2)   Ensure quality control in the use of transaction scan devices under
R.C. §§ 2925.57, 2925.58, 2927.021, 2927.022, 4301.61 and 4301.611.
   (D)   (1)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
         (a)   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder; and
         (b)   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
      (2)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
the information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to
be recorded and maintained under division (D)(1) of this section, except for
purposes of R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (3)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
a transaction scan device for a purpose other than a purpose listed in
divisions (a) or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (4)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall sell
or otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by R.C. § 4301.611, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or another section of this code
or the Ohio Revised Code.
   (E)   Nothing in this section or R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, relieves a permit holder or an agent or
employee of a permit holder of any responsibility to comply with any other
applicable local, state or federal laws or rules governing the sale of beer,
intoxicating liquor or low-alcohol beverages.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) or (D) of this section is guilty of
an illegal liquor transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender
a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the court
shall pay each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into
the county treasury.
(R.C. § 4301.61)
§ 93.29  AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may not be
found guilty of a charge of a violation of this chapter or any rule of the
Liquor Control Commission in which the age of the purchaser of any beer,
intoxicating liquor or low-alcohol beverage is an element of the alleged
violation, if the permit holder, agent or employee raises and proves as an
affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
      (1)   A card holder attempting to purchase any beer, intoxicating liquor
or low-alcohol beverage presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card;
      (2)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid; and
      (3)   The beer, intoxicating liquor or low-alcohol beverage was sold to
the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan.
   (B)   In determining whether a permit holder or an agent or employee of a
permit holder has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section, the Liquor Control Commission or the trier of fact in a court of
record shall consider any written policy that the permit holder has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of R.C. §§ 4301.22(A)(1)
or (A)(2), 4301.63 through 4301.636, 4301.69 and 4301.691, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances. For purposes of division (A)(3) of this
section, the Commission or trier of fact shall consider that reasonable
reliance upon the identification presented and the completed transaction scan
may require a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder to
exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a transaction
scan device does not excuse a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit
holder from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
      (1)   Whether a person to whom the permit holder or agent or employee of
a permit holder sells any beer or intoxicating liquor is 21 years of age or
older or sells low-alcohol beverage is 18 years of age or older;
      (2)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
   (C)   The affirmative defense provided by division (A) of this section is in
addition to the defense provided by R.C. § 4301.639, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   In any hearing before the Liquor Control Commission and in any
criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a Deputy Registrar
who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 through 4507.52 shall
be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that issuance in lieu
of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the hearing or action.
(R.C. § 4301.611)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty
has been provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4301.70, 4301.99(A))
Statutory reference:
   Liquor Director to be notified of court decision regarding permit holder,
employee or agent, see R.C. § 4301.991
CHAPTER 94:  NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Application of the chapter
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Nuisances generally; injunctions; violation; contempt
   
94.04   Maintaining certain nuisances
   
94.05   Collection of cost of abating dangerous property condition; injunction;
rehabilitation
   
94.06   Trimming of trees and shrubbery to prevent obstruction
   
94.07   Noise
   
94.08   Sound amplifying devices
Septic Tanks, Cesspools and Refuse
   
94.20   Location of privy vaults, cesspools and septic tanks
   
94.21   Unsanitary vaults
   
94.22   Removal of contents of vault
   
94.23   Deposit of dead animals, offal upon land or water
   
94.24   Defiling spring or well prohibited
   
94.25   Dumping of refuse in municipality prohibited
   
94.26   Abandoned refrigerators
   
94.27   Discarding litter prohibited
   
94.28   Power of municipality to fill or drain land
Weeds
   
94.40   Definitions
   
94.41   Weeds prohibited
   
94.42   Notice to owner to cut; service
   
94.43   Procedure for owner noncompliance
   
94.44   Statement of cost to owner
   
94.45   Cost payment; unpaid cost a lien
   
94.46   Exemption
Unclean Habitations
   
94.60   Permitting unclean habitations
   
94.61   When habitations are deemed unsanitary
   
94.62   Order for abatement or vacation of premises
   
94.63   Enforcement of vacation order by Fire Chief or Police Chief
   
94.64   Enforcement through court proceedings
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Duty to keep sidewalks free from nuisances, see §
97.30
   Obscenity, injunction and abatement, see §
133.15
   Operating a gambling house as nuisance, see §
134.03
   Places where intoxicating liquor sold as nuisances, see §§
93.21,
93.26
   Public gaming as nuisance, see §
134.04
   Unauthorized signs and signals as nuisance, see §
70.35
   Unclaimed and abandoned motor vehicles, see
Chapter 98
Statutory reference:
   Issuance of adjudication orders and stop work orders, see R.C. § 3781.031
   Noise, certain nuisance immunity regarding noise at shooting ranges, see
R.C. § 1533.85
   Ohio Building Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 4101:1
   Power to abate and prevent nuisances, see R.C. § 715.44
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01  APPLICATION OF THE CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforceable within this municipality
concurrently with the state and federal laws relative to sanitation and health
and the ordinances or orders of the local health district relative thereto, and
shall not be construed as modifying, repealing, limiting or affecting in any
manner such laws, ordinances or orders.
§ 94.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   That which is defined and declared by statutes or ordinances to be
a nuisance;
      (2)   Any place in or upon which lewdness, assignation or prostitution is
conducted, permitted, continued or exists, or any place in or upon which lewd,
indecent, lascivious or obscene films or plate negatives, film or plate
positives, films designed to be projected on a screen for exhibition films, or
glass slides either in negative or positive form designed for exhibition by
projection on a screen, are photographed, manufactured, developed, screened,
exhibited or otherwise prepared or shown, and the personal property and
contents used in conducting and maintaining any such place for any such
purpose. This chapter shall not affect any newspaper, magazine or other
publication entered as second class matter by the post office department; and
      (3)   Any room, house, building, boat, vehicle, structure or place where
beer or intoxicating liquor is manufactured, sold, bartered, possessed or kept
in violation of law and all property kept and used in maintaining the same, and
all property designed for the unlawful manufacture or beer, or intoxicating
liquor and beer, or intoxicating liquor contained in the room, house, building,
boat, structure or place described in this division (3) where the operation of
that place substantially interferes with public decency, sobriety, peace and
good order. VIOLATION OF LAW includes but is not limited to sales to any person
under the legal drinking age prohibited in R.C. § 4301.22(A) or R.C. § 4301.69
(A), and any violation of R.C. § 2913.46 or R.C. § 2925.03.
   PERSON.  Includes any individual, corporation, association, partnership,
trustee, lessee, agent or assignee.
   PLACE.  Includes any building, erection or place or any separate part or
portion thereof or the ground itself.
(R.C. § 3767.01)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty and procedure when injunction issued pursuant to division (3) of the
definition of “nuisance” is violated, see §
93.27
§ 94.03  NUISANCES GENERALLY; INJUNCTIONS; VIOLATION; CONTEMPT.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who uses, occupies, establishes or conducts a
nuisance, or aids and abets in the use, occupancy, establishment or conduct of
a nuisance; the owner, agent or lessee of an interest in any such nuisance; any
person who is employed in that nuisance by that owner, agent or lessee; and any
person who is in control of that nuisance is guilty of maintaining a nuisance
and shall be enjoined as provided in R.C. §§ 3767.03 through 3767.11.
      (2)   A criminal gang that uses or occupies any building, premises or
real estate, including vacant land, on more than two occasions within a one-
year period to engage in a pattern of criminal gang activity is guilty of
maintaining a nuisance and shall be enjoined as provided in R.C. §§ 3767.03
through 3767.11. As used in this division (A)(2), CRIMINAL GANG and PATTERN OF
CRIMINAL GANG ACTIVITY have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2923.41.
(R.C. § 3767.02)
      (3)   Any building, premises or real estate, including vacant land, that
is used or occupied by a criminal gang on more than two occasions within a one-
year period to engage in a pattern of criminal gang activity constitutes a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. §§ 3767.01 through 3767.11
(R.C. § 2923.43)
   (B)   In case of the violation of any injunction or closing order granted
under R.C. §§ 3767.01 through 3767.11, or of a restraining order or the
commission of any contempt of court in proceedings under such sections, the
court or, in vacation, a judge thereof, may summarily try and punish the
offender. The trial may be had upon affidavits or either party may demand the
production and oral examination or witnesses.
(R.C. § 3767.07)
   (C)   Whoever is guilty of contempt under this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(A))
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of nuisance, bond and notice, see R.C. § 3767.03
   Content of judgment and order, disposition of property seized, see R.C. §
3767.06
   Criminal gang activity, see R.C. §§ 2923.41 et seq.
   Priority of actions, evidence, costs; nuisances relating to liquor permit
premises, see R.C. § 3767.05
   Procedure in injunction action, see R.C. § 3767.04
§ 94.04  MAINTAINING CERTAIN NUISANCES.
   (A)   No person shall erect, continue to use or maintain a building,
structure or place for the exercise of a trade, employment or business or for
keeping or feeding an animal which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or of the public.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow offal, filth or noisome substances to
be collected or remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of
the public.
   (C)   No person shall unlawfully obstruct or impede the passage of a
navigable river, harbor or collection of water, or corrupt or render
unwholesome or impure a watercourse, stream of water, or unlawfully divert such
watercourse from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   (D)   Persons who are engaged in agriculture-related activities, as
“agriculture” is defined in R.C. § 519.01, and who are conducting those
activities outside the municipality, in accordance with generally accepted
agricultural practices, and in such a manner so as not to have a substantial,
adverse effect on the public health, safety or welfare, are exempt from
divisions (A) and (B) above and from any ordinances, resolutions, rules or
other enactments of the municipality that prohibit excessive noise.
(R.C. § 3767.13)
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
§ 94.05  COLLECTION OF COST OF ABATING DANGEROUS PROPERTY CONDITION;
INJUNCTION; REHABILITATION.
   (A)   Collection of costs of abating dangerous property conditions.
      (1)   As used in this division (A)(1), TOTAL COST means any costs
incurred due to the use of employees, materials or equipment of the
municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this section, any
costs arising out of contracts for labor, materials or equipment, and costs of
service of notice or publication required under this division (A)(1).
      (2)   The municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this
section may collect the total cost of removing, repairing or securing insecure,
unsafe, structurally defective, abandoned, deserted or open and vacant
buildings or other structures, of making emergency corrections of hazardous
conditions or of abating any nuisance by any of the following methods:
         (a)   The Fiscal Officer of the legislative authority of the
municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this section may
certify the total costs, together with a proper description of lands to the
County Auditor who shall place the costs upon the tax list and duplicate. The
costs are a lien upon such lands from and after the date the costs were
incurred. The costs shall be collected as other taxes and returned to the
municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this section, as
directed by the Fiscal Officer in the certification of the total costs or in an
affidavit from the agent delivered to the County Auditor or County Treasurer.
The placement of the costs on the tax list and duplicate relates back to, and
is effective in priority, as of the date the costs were incurred, provided that
the municipal corporation or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this
section certifies the total costs within one year from the date the costs were
incurred.
         (b)   The municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of
this section may commence a civil action to recover the total costs from the
owner.
      (3)   This division (A) applies to any action taken by the municipality,
or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this section, pursuant to R.C. §
715.26, which authorizes the inspection, removal and repair of buildings, or
pursuant to the Ohio Constitution, Article XVIII, § 3.
      (4)   The municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this
section shall not certify to the County Auditor for placement upon the tax list
and duplicate the cost of any action that it takes under division (A)(2) of
this section if the action is taken on land that has been forfeited to the
state for delinquent taxes, unless the owner of record redeems the land.
      (5)   The municipality may enter into an agreement with a County Land
Reutilization Corporation organized under R.C. Chapter 1724 wherein the County
Land Reutilization Corporation agrees to act as the agent of the municipality
in connection with removing, repairing or securing insecure, unsafe,
structurally defective, abandoned, deserted or open and vacant buildings or
other structures, making emergency corrections of hazardous conditions or
abating any nuisance, including high weeds, overgrown brush, and trash and
debris from vacant lots. The total costs of such actions may be collected by
the corporation pursuant to division (A)(2) of this section, and shall be paid
to the corporation if it paid or incurred such costs and has not been
reimbursed.
      (6)   In the case of the lien of a County Land Reutilization Corporation
that is the agent of the municipality, a notation shall be placed on the tax
list and duplicate showing the amount of the lien ascribed specifically to the
agent’s total costs. The agent has standing to pursue a separate cause of
action for money damages to satisfy the lien or pursue a foreclosure action in
a court of competent jurisdiction or with the Board of Revision to enforce the
lien without regard to occupancy. For purposes of a foreclosure proceeding by
the County Treasurer for delinquent taxes, this division (A)(6) does not affect
the lien priority as between a County Land Reutilization Corporation and the
County Treasurer, but the corporation’s lien is superior to the lien of any
other lienholder of the property. As to a direct action by a County Land
Reutilization Corporation, the lien for the taxes, assessment, charges, costs,
penalties and interest on the tax list and duplicate is in all cases superior
to the lien of a County Land Reutilization Corporation, whose lien for total
costs shall be next in priority as against all other interests, except as
provided in division (A)(7) of this section.
      (7)   A County Land Reutilization Corporation acting as an agent of the
municipality under an agreement under this division (A) may, with the County
Treasurer’s consent, petition the court or Board of Revision with jurisdiction
over an action undertaken under division (A)(6) of this section pleading that
the lien of the corporation, as agent, for the total costs shall be superior to
the lien for the taxes, assessments, charges, costs, penalties and interest. If
the court or Board of Revision determines that the lien is for total costs paid
or incurred by the corporation as such an agent, and that subordinating the
lien for such taxes and other impositions to the lien of the corporation
promotes the expeditious abatement of public nuisances, the court or Board may
order the lien for the taxes and other impositions to be subordinate to the
corporation’s lien. The court or Board may not subordinate the lien for taxes
and other such impositions to any other liens.
(R.C. § 715.261)
   (B)   Injunction may be granted for failure to comply.  No person shall
erect, alter, repair or maintain any residential building, office, mercantile
building, workshop or factory, including a public or private garage, or other
structure, within the municipality unless all ordinances or resolutions enacted
pursuant to R.C. §§ 715.26 through 715.30 are fully complied with. In the event
any building or structure is being erected, constructed, altered, repaired or
maintained in violation of such ordinances or resolutions, or there is imminent
threat of violation, the municipality or the owner of any contiguous or
neighboring property who would be especially damaged by such violation, in
addition to any other remedies provided by law, may institute a suit for
injunction to prevent or terminate such violation.
(R.C. § 715.30)
   (C)   Appropriation of property to rehabilitate; demolition or sale.
      (1)   In order to rehabilitate a building or structure that the
municipality has determined to be a blighted property as defined in R.C. §
1.08, the municipality may appropriate, in the manner provided by R.C. §§
163.01 through 163.22, any such building or structure and the real property of
which it is a part. The municipality shall rehabilitate the building or
structure or cause it to be rehabilitated within two years after the
appropriation so that the building or structure is no longer a public nuisance,
insecure, unsafe, structurally defective, unhealthful or unsanitary, or a
threat to the public health, safety or welfare, in violation of a building code
or ordinance adopted under R.C. § 731.231. Any building or structure
appropriated pursuant to this division (C) which is not rehabilitated within
two years shall be demolished.
      (2)   If, during the rehabilitation process, the municipality retains
title to the building or structure and the real property of which it is a part,
then within 180 days after the rehabilitation is complete, the municipality
shall appraise the rehabilitated building or structure and the real property of
which it is a part, and shall sell the building or structure and property at
public auction. The municipality shall advertise the public auction in a
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality once a week for three
consecutive weeks, or as provided in R.C. § 7.16, prior to the date of sale.
The municipality shall sell the building or structure and real property to the
highest and best bidder. No property that the municipality acquires pursuant to
this division (C) shall be leased.
(R.C. § 719.012)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical ordinances and codes by reference, see R.C. § 731.231
§ 94.06  TRIMMING OF TREES AND SHRUBBERY TO PREVENT OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, grow or maintain any
shade tree or trees or shrubbery which will obstruct the proper distribution of
light from street lamps or which will obstruct the view of traffic approaching
an intersection by operators of vehicles approaching such intersection from
another direction.
   (B)   All trees shall be trimmed so as to have a clear height of ten feet
above the surface of sidewalks and 12 feet above the surface of the street or
roadway, and the branches of all trees in front of and along lots or lands near
which street lights are placed shall be trimmed so as not to obstruct the free
passage of light from such street lights to the street and sidewalk.
   (C)   The Village Council shall cause a written notice to be given to
property owners ordering them to trim or remove trees and shrubbery so that the
trees and shrubbery conform to divisions (A) and (B).
   (D)   If the property owner fails to trim or remove the trees and shrubbery
as ordered, the Village Council may cause the trees and shrubbery to be trimmed
or removed as ordered, and the cost thereof shall be a lien upon such real
estate.
Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate shade trees, see R.C. § 715.20
§ 94.07  NOISE.
   (A)   No owner, keeper, manager or any person in charge or control of a
hotel, night club, restaurant, dance or amusement hall, tavern or other public
place, shall engage in or permit the playing of musical, or other instruments,
singing, loud talking or the making of other noises in or about the premises in
such manner as to disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood after 11:00
p.m. The affidavit charging an offense under this section shall state the hour
at which the offense is alleged to have occurred.
   (B)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated, any whistle, rattle,
bell, gong, clapper, hammer, drum, horn, player piano, calliope, radio,
phonograph or other sound producing or sound amplifying instrument or otherwise
create noise or sound in such manner as to disturb the peace and quiet of a
neighborhood or interfere with the transaction of business or other ordinary
pursuits. Nothing herein shall be construed to affect the usual and reasonable
operation of steam railroads, electric railways and motor buses, or prohibit
the reasonable use of vehicle warning signals, the reasonable ringing of church
bells or the reasonable and ordinary noises attendant on athletic contests or
lawful public or semi-public meetings, parades or celebrations.
   (C)   No person, firm or corporation being the owner or person in possession
of a motor vehicle with any radio, phonograph, television, tape player, loud
speaker or any other instrument, machine or device shall cause or permit any
noise to emanate from the motor vehicle in such a manner and to be of such
intensity and duration to create unreasonable noise or loud sound which causes
inconvenience and annoyance to persons of ordinary sensibilities.
      (1)   It shall be prima facie unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation being the owner or person in possession of a motor vehicle with a
device described above to cause or permit any noise emanating from a motor
vehicle which is plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the motor
vehicle. The lawful use of a motor vehicle horn shall not be a violation of
this section.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to any of the following circumstances:
         (a)   The sound amplifying equipment of the motor vehicle is being
operated to request medical or vehicular assistance or to warn others of a
hazardous road, vehicle or traffic safety condition;
         (b)   The motor vehicle is an emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle and is on an emergency run;
         (c)   The motor vehicle is owned and operated by the state or a
political subdivision or a public utility;
         (d)   The motor vehicle is participating in a parade or other activity
for which the sponsors have obtained the necessary permit or authorization; or
         (e)   The sound amplifying equipment of the motor vehicle is being
operated as a requirement of federal, state or local law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of generating excessive sound
from a motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 94.04)  (Ord. 911-96, passed 7-22-1996)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08  SOUND AMPLIFYING DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall generate or permit to be generated from a structure,
vehicle or business unreasonable noise or loud sound that is likely to cause
inconvenience or annoyance to persons of ordinary sensibilities by means of a
radio, phonograph, television, tape player, loudspeaker, CD player, digital
tape or disc or any other sound amplifying device or by any horn, drum, piano
or other musical or percussion instrument.
   (B)   It is prima facie unlawful for a person to generate or permit to be
generated sound by the above-described devices or instruments in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   On private property in a residentially zoned area, regardless of an
existing nonconforming use or variance, where the sound is audible more than 80
feet from the property line of the property on which the source of the sound is
located; and
      (2)   On a street, highway or in the public right-of-way where sound is
audible 80 feet from the device generating the sound.
   (C)   No person being the owner or person in possession of a premises or
person in control of the premises by reason of employment, agency or otherwise,
whether such ownership, possession or control is exclusive or joint, shall
permit a violation of this section.
   (D)   The following uses and activities shall be exempt from the noise level
regulations:
      (1)   Noises of warning and alarm devices, safety signals and emergency
pressure relief valves;
      (2)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicles, when
responding to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
      (3)   Noises resulting from any work made necessary to restore property
to a safe condition or work required to protect persons or property from an
imminent exposure to danger;
      (4)   Any other noise resulting from activities of a temporary duration
permitted by law and for which a license or permit therefor has been granted by
the village;
      (5)   Any aircraft operated in conformity with, or pursuant to, federal
law, federal air regulation and air traffic control instruction;
      (6)   Noises resulting from the normal use of churches, schools, athletic
fields, parks and auditoriums; and
      (7)   Building mechanical equipment regulated by the Building Code (FPCO
152Rl03.l).
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of generating unreasonable
noises and a minor misdemeanor. If the offender persists in generating or
permitting to be generated unreasonable noise after reasonable warning or
request to desist, generating unreasonable noise is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree; on a second offense within year after the first offense, such person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent offense within
one year after the first offense, such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(Ord. 1020-03, passed 10-6-2003)
SEPTIC TANKS, CESSPOOLS AND REFUSE
§ 94.20  LOCATION OF PRIVY VAULTS, CESSPOOLS AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   No owner, occupant or person in charge of any premises situated as to permit
connection with any sanitary sewer shall maintain or permit to be maintained on
or in connection with such premises any privy vault, cesspool, septic tank or
other repository for human excreta.
Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate privies, see R.C. § 715.40
   Power to regulate refuse disposal, see R.C. § 715.43
§ 94.21  UNSANITARY VAULTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner, lessor, occupant or
person in charge of any premises upon which a privy vault, cesspool or septic
tank is located to permit such vault, pool or tank, or any building, fixture or
device appurtenant thereto, to become foul, noisome, filthy or offensive to
neighboring property owners.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22  REMOVAL OF CONTENTS OF VAULT.
   Whenever any part of the waste in any privy vault or cesspool extends to a
point less than three feet below the surface of the ground adjacent thereto, or
whenever use of any such vault or cesspool is abandoned or where such use or
maintenance is prohibited by ordinance or health order, the owner, lessor,
occupant or person in charge of such premises shall cause the vault or cesspool
to be emptied of its contents, thoroughly cleaned and disinfected, and if
abandoned, to be filled with clean earth or mineral matter to the level of the
adjacent ground.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23  DEPOSIT OF DEAD ANIMALS, OFFAL UPON LAND OR WATER.
   (A)   No person shall put the carcass of a dead animal or the offal from a
slaughter house, butcher’s establishment, packing house or fish house, or
spoiled meat, spoiled fish or other putrid substance or the contents of a privy
vault, upon or into a lake, river, bay, creek, pond, canal, road, street,
alley, lot, meadow, public ground, market place or common. No owner or occupant
of such place shall knowingly permit such thing to remain therein to the
annoyance of any citizen or neglect to remove or abate the nuisance occasioned
thereby within 24 hours after knowledge of the existence thereof, or after
notice thereof in writing from the designated municipal official.
(R.C. § 3767.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 94.24  DEFILING SPRING OR WELL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously put a dead animal, carcass, or part
thereof, or other putrid, nauseous or offensive substance into, or befoul, a
well, spring, brook or branch of running water, or a reservoir of a waterworks,
of which use is or may be made for domestic purposes.
(R.C. § 3767.18)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 94.25  DUMPING OF REFUSE IN MUNICIPALITY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, cause to be dumped or permit to
be dumped on any publicly or privately owned land or water in the municipality
any paper, brush, rubbish, tin cans, vegetation, garbage or refuse of any kind,
without first having obtained a written license from the Mayor or other
designated municipal officer to do so. The Mayor or other designated municipal
officer shall issue a license permitting dumping of designated materials when
it appears that filling of the land is necessary and that the material
deposited will be immediately covered with earth or will not be objectionable
to the citizens of the neighborhood, or injurious to health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26  ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, discard or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under the person’s control, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-airtight
container which has a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more and an
opening of 50 square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with a
hinge, latch or other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid,
without rendering the equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges,
latches or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This
section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-
airtight container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer,
warehouse or repairer.
(R.C. § 3767.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(B))
§ 94.27  DISCARDING LITTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, regardless of intent, shall deposit litter or cause litter
to be deposited on any public property, on private property not owned by the
person, or in or on waters of the state, unless one of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the person
deposits the litter in a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents its being
carried away by the elements; and
      (3)   The person is issued a permit or license covering the litter
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3734 or 6111.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly deposit litter,
or cause it to be deposited, in a litter receptacle located on any public
property or on any private property not owned by the person, unless one of the
following applies:
      (1)   The litter was generated or located on the property on which the
litter receptacle is located;
      (2)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive;
      (3)   The person is directed to do so by a person whom the person
reasonably believes to have the privilege to use the litter receptacle; and
      (4)   The litter consists of any of the following:
         (a)   The contents of a litter bag or container of a type and size
customarily carried and used in a motor vehicle;
         (b)   The contents of an ash tray of a type customarily installed or
carried and used in a motor vehicle;
         (c)   Beverage containers and food sacks, wrappings and containers of
a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be generated during
routine commuting or business or recreational travel by a motor vehicle; or
         (d)   Beverage containers, food sacks, wrappings, containers and other
materials of a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be
generated during a routine day by a person and deposited in a litter receptacle
by a casual passerby.
   (C)   (1)   As used in division (B) of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY
includes any private property open to the public for the conduct of business,
the provision of a service, or upon the payment of a fee but does not include
any private property to which the public otherwise does not have a right of
access.
      (2)   As used in division (B)(4) of this section, CASUAL PASSERBY means a
person who does not have depositing litter in a litter receptacle as the
person’s primary reason for traveling to or by the property on which the litter
receptacle is located.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      DEPOSIT.  Means to throw, drop, discard or place.
      LITTER.  Includes garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles,
wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture, glass or anything
else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
      LITTER RECEPTACLE.  Means a dumpster, trash can, trash bin, garbage can
or similar container in which litter is deposited for removal.
   (E)   This section may be enforced by any Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, police
officer of the municipality, police constable or officer of a township, or
township or joint police district, wildlife officer, park officer, forest
officer, preserve officer, conservancy district police officer, inspector of
nuisances of a county, or any other law enforcement officer within the law
enforcement officer’s jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 3767.32)
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. The sentencing court may, in addition to or in
lieu of the penalty provided in this division (F), require a person who
violates this section to remove litter from any public or private property or
in or on waters of the state.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
§ 94.28  POWER OF MUNICIPALITY TO FILL OR DRAIN LAND.
   (A)   The municipality may fill or drain any lot or land within its limits
on which water at any time becomes stagnant, remove all putrid substances from
any lot, and remove all obstructions from culverts, covered drains or private
property, laid in any natural watercourse, creek, brook or branch, which
obstruct the water naturally flowing therein, causing it to flow back or become
stagnant, in a way prejudicial to the health, comfort or convenience of any of
the citizens of the neighborhood. If such culverts or drains are of
insufficient capacity, the municipality may make them of such capacity as
reasonable to accommodate the flow of such water at all times.
   (B)   The legislative authority may, by resolution, direct the owner to fill
or drain such lot, remove such putrid substance or other obstructions, and if
necessary, enlarge such culverts or covered drains to meet the requirements
thereof.
   (C)   After service of a copy of such resolution, or after a publication
thereof in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality or as
provided in R.C. § 7.16, for two consecutive weeks, the owner, or the owner’s
agent or attorney, shall comply with the directions of the resolution within
the time therein specified.
   (D)   In case of the failure or refusal of such owner to comply with the
resolution, the work required thereby may be done at the expense of the
municipality, and the amount of money so expended shall be recovered from the
owner before any court of competent jurisdiction. This expense from the time of
the adoption of the resolution shall be a lien on such lot, which may be
enforced by suit in the court of common pleas, and like proceedings may be had
as directed in relation to the improvement of streets.
   (E)   The officers connected with the Health Department of the municipality
shall see that this section is strictly and promptly enforced.
(R.C. § 715.47)
WEEDS
§ 94.40  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL.  Land cultivated for the purpose of producing crops; farming.
   DENSE.  Marked by compactness or crowding together of parts.
   FOREST.  A dense growth of trees and underbrush covering a large tract; to
cover the trees.
   GROVE.  A small wood without underbrush.
   NOXIOUS.  Physically harmful or destructive to living beings.
   RANK.  Excessively vigorous in growth; offensively gross or coarse, foul,
growth too large.
   UNDERBRUSH.  Shrubs, bushes or small trees growing beneath large trees in
wood or forest; brush; a tangled, obstruction or impending mass.
   WEED.  A plant that is not valued where it is growing and is usually of rank
growth, such as one that tends to overgrow or choke out more desirable plants.
   WOOD.  A dense growth of trees usually greater in extent than a grove and
smaller than a forest.
   WOODED.  Covered with growing trees.
(1997 Code, § 94.15)  (Ord. 854-93, passed 2-8-1993)
§ 94.41  WEEDS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, whether owner, lessee, agent, tenant or any other person
having charge or care of land in the village, shall permit noxious weeds or
other rank vegetation, grasses and the like to grow thereon to a height in
excess of 12 inches, or to mature their seeds thereon, or fail to cut and
destroy such weeds and other vegetation when notified by the village to do so.
   (B)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Any weeds such as the following:
Noxious Weeds
Noxious Weeds
Buckthorn           Musk Thistle
Canada Thistle      Oxeye Daisy
Corncockle          Perennial Sowthistle
Cressleaf Groundsel Poison Hemlock
Curly Dock          Purple Loosestrife
Dodder              Quackgrass
Field Bindweed      Russian Knapweed
French Weed         Russian Thistle
Hairy Whitetop      Serrated Tussock
Hedge Bindweed      Shatter Cane
Hoary Cress         Wild Carrot
Horsenettle         Wild Garlic
Johnsongrass        Wild Mustard
Leafy Spurge        Wild Onion
Mile-A-Minute Weed  Wild Parsnip
 
      (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
      (3)   Bushes of the species of tall, common or European barberry, further
known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties; and
      (4)   Any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches.
(1997 Code, § 94.16)  (Ord. 854-93, passed 2-8-1993)  Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   List of prohibited and secondary noxious weeds, see O.A.C. §§ 901:5-31-01
and 901:5-37-01
   Local weed control, see R.C. §§ 731.51 et seq.
§ 94.42  NOTICE TO OWNER TO CUT; SERVICE.
   Upon information that noxious weeds, rank vegetation or grasses are growing
on land in the village and are in excess of 12 inches or are about to spread or
mature seeds, the village shall cause written notice to be served on the owner
or person having charge of such land that such weeds, vegetation or grasses
must be cut within five days after service of such notice. If such owner or
person having charge of such land is a nonresident whose address is known, such
notice shall be sent to his or her address by registered mail. If unknown, it
shall be sufficient to publish such notice once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county.
(1997 Code, § 94.17)  (Ord. 854-93, passed 2-8-1993)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.43  PROCEDURE FOR OWNER NONCOMPLIANCE.
   In the event the owner does not comply with the order to cut or destroy
undesirable vegetation within the time limit specified and after proper notice
of violation has been issued by the village, the village shall cause such
undesirable vegetation to be cut and may employ the necessary labor and
equipment to perform such task, together with any cleanup work required, within
appropriations previously made by Council. In addition, the owner is liable for
the penalties provided herein.
(1997 Code, § 94.18)  (Ord. 854-93, passed 2-8-1993)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.44  STATEMENT OF COST TO OWNER.
   (A)   When the village causes undesirable vegetation to be cut and the land
cleaned of debris, as provided in §
94.43, a statement of cost thereof shall be mailed to owner of such land by
certified mail, return receipt requested. Such statement of cost shall include
the following cost of the village:
      (1)   Administration and supervision;
      (2)   Transportation of equipment;
      (3)   Equipment rental;
      (4)   Equipment operator; and
      (5)   Incidental labor.
   (B)   The minimum fee to be charged shall be $25 for the first hour or
portion thereof, and $15 for each additional hour or portion thereof.
(1997 Code, § 94.19)  (Ord. 854-93, passed 2-8-1993)
§ 94.45  COST PAYMENT; UNPAID COST A LIEN.
   The owner may pay such fees as are charged to the Village Fiscal Officer
within 30 days after receipt of the statement of costs without further cost or
penalty. Any payment so received shall be restored to the appropriation from
which the cost was paid. If the fee is not paid when due, the Fiscal Officer
shall certify to the County Auditor the proceeding taken under this section,
together with a statement of the charges for services and a legal description
of the premises. Such amount shall be entered upon the tax duplicate and shall
be a lien upon such lands from the date of entry, and shall be collected as
other taxes and returned to the Village General Fund as provided by R.C. §
731.54.
(1997 Code, § 94.20)  (Ord. 854-93, passed 2-8-1993)
§ 94.46  EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Lands which are by definition or function considered to be
agricultural or woods shall be exempt from this chapter.
   (B)   Those sections of agricultural lands that abut a village right-of-way
are excluded from this exemption.
(1997 Code, § 94.21)  (Ord. 854-93, passed 2-8-1993)
UNCLEAN HABITATIONS
§ 94.60  PERMITTING UNCLEAN HABITATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to lease, let, permit the occupancy of,
permit the continuation of the occupancy of, or continue the occupancy of a
structure or building or any portion thereof used for human habitation, unless
such structure or building or portion thereof is free from unclean and
unsanitary conditions as defined in §
94.61 and unless the provisions of the subsequent sections are complied with.
Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the landlord, see R.C. § 5321.04
   Duties of the tenant, see R.C. § 5321.05
   Injunction for failure to comply, see R.C. § 715.30
   Regulating occupied buildings, see R.C. § 715.29
§ 94.61  WHEN HABITATIONS ARE DEEMED UNSANITARY.
   A structure, building or any portion thereof used for human habitation shall
be deemed to be in an unclean and unsanitary condition when any of the
following conditions exist:
   (A)   Infection with communicable disease;
   (B)   Absence of the toilet facilities required by law or ordinance;
   (C)   Presence of sewer gas;
   (D)   Dampness or wetness due to lack of repair;
   (E)   Accumulation of dirt, filth, litter, refuse or other offensive or
dangerous substances likely to cause sickness among the occupants; or
   (F)   Defective or improperly used drainage, plumbing or ventilation
facilities likely to cause sickness.
§ 94.62  ORDER FOR ABATEMENT OR VACATION OF PREMISES.
   If the local Board of Health ascertains from examination or reports of its
inspectors or sanitary officers or otherwise determines that a public nuisance,
as defined in §
94.61, exists in or upon any structure or building, or portion thereof, and has
notified the owner, occupant or person in charge of the premises to abate the
nuisance or vacate the premises, it shall be unlawful to occupy or permit the
occupancy of the premises or portion thereof until the nuisance has been
completely abated and the building or portion thereof has been rendered clean
and sanitary in accordance with the terms of the notices of the Board of
Health.
§ 94.63  ENFORCEMENT OF VACATION ORDER BY FIRE CHIEF OR POLICE CHIEF.
   When the notice or order of vacation has not been complied with, and the
Board of Health certifies such fact to the Fire Chief or Police Chief, together
with a copy of the order of notice, it shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or
Police Chief to enforce such notice or order of vacation and to cause the
premises to be vacated in accordance with the terms of the notice or order.
§ 94.64  ENFORCEMENT THROUGH COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   Whenever the Board of Health certifies to the municipal legal officer any
failure to comply with any order or notice of vacation, with the request that
civil proceedings for the enforcement thereof be instituted, the municipal
legal officer shall institute any and all proceedings, either legal or
equitable, that may be appropriate or necessary for the enforcement of the
order or notice and the abatement of the nuisance against which the order or
notice was directed. These suits or proceedings shall be brought in the name of
the municipality. Proceedings under this section shall not relieve any party
defendant from criminal prosecution or punishment under this code or any other
criminal law or ordinance in force within the municipality.
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which another penalty is
not already provided, shall be subject to the penalty prescribed in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 95:  RAILROADS
Section
   
95.01   Climbing upon railroad cars
   
95.02   Duties of locomotive engineer
§ 95.01  CLIMBING UPON RAILROAD CARS.
   (A)   No person shall climb, jump, step or stand upon or cling or attach
himself or herself to a locomotive, engine or car upon the track of a railroad,
unless in compliance with law or by permission under the rules and regulations
of the corporation managing such railroad.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4999.02)  (1997 Code, § 95.01)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 95.02  DUTIES OF LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEER.
   (A)   No person in charge of a locomotive shall do the following:
      (1)   Fail to bring the locomotive to a full stop at least 200 feet
before arriving at a crossing with another track, or proceed through the
crossing before signaled to do so or before the way is clear; and
      (2)   When approaching a grade crossing, fail to sound the locomotive
whistle at frequent intervals, beginning not less than 1,320 feet from such
crossing and continuing until the locomotive has passed the crossing.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If violation of this section causes physical harm to any person,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4999.04)  (1997 Code, § 95.02)  Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 96:  SHADE TREES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Village Administrator responsible for shade trees
   
96.03   Permits required
   
96.04   Tree pruning and removal
   
96.05   Abuse or mutilation of public trees
   
96.06   Protection of trees
   
96.07   Placing materials on public property
   
96.08   Street tree plan for new developments
   
96.09   Interference with Village Administrator
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Injuring vines, bushes, trees or crops, see §
131.21
Statutory reference:
   Assessments for tree planting or maintenance, see R.C. § 727.011
   Power to regulate shade trees and shrubbery, see R.C. § 715.20
§ 96.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LAWN STRIP or CURB STRIP.  The part of a street or highway right-of-way
outside of the portion improved for travel, including the sidewalk.
   OWNER.  The owner or owners of the premises including the holder of title
thereto, subject to contract of purchase, a vendee in possession, a mortgagee
or receiver in possession, a lessee or joint lessees of the whole thereof, or
an agent or any other person, firm, corporation or fiduciary directly in
control of the premises.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY.  All property not included in the definition of PUBLIC
PROPERTY of this section, including but not limited to vacant land or to any
land, building or other structure designed or used for residential, commercial,
business industrial, institutional or religious purposes.
   PROPERTY LINE.  The legal boundary line.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY.  All property owned, operated or controlled by any
governmental agency, including but not limited to streets, sidewalks, lawn
strips or curb strips, parks, playgrounds, parking lots, schools, libraries,
post offices, municipal transit facilities and all other public lands and
buildings.
   PUBLIC TREES.  Includes all shade and ornamental trees, now or hereafter
growing on any street, including lawn strip, or on any other public lands.
   SHADE OR ORNAMENTAL TREE OR SHRUB.  Any and all woody vegetation.
   STREET.  The entire width of every public way or right-of-way when any part
thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   VILLAGE.  The Village of Batavia, Clermont County, Ohio.
(1997 Code, § 96.01)  (Ord. 715-83, passed 8-8-1983)
§ 96.02 VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR RESPONSIBLE FOR SHADE TREES.
   (A)   Administrator duties.  The Village Administrator’s duties for shade
trees shall be:
      (1)   To study the problems and determine the needs of the village with
respect to its tree planting program;
      (2)   To decide the type and kind of trees to be planted upon the village
streets or parts thereof or in parks as is designated; and
      (3)   To assist the Mayor, Village Council and residents in the
disseminating news and information regarding the selection, planting and
maintenance of trees within the corporate limits on public property and to make
such recommendations from time to time to Council as to desirable legislation
concerning the tree program and activities for the village.
   (B)   Rules and regulations.  The Village Administrator may promulgate rules
and regulations and specifications and standards of practice governing the
planting, maintenance, removal, fertilization, pruning and bracing of trees on
the streets or other public sites in the village, and shall direct, regulate
and control the planting, maintenance and removal of all trees growing now or
hereafter in any public area of the village. The Administrator shall enforce
the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Authority over trees on public property.  The Village Administrator
shall have authority and jurisdiction to regulate the planting, maintenance and
removal of trees on streets and other public property to ensure safety or
preserve the aesthetics of such public sites, in accordance with the permit
system provisions contained in this chapter.
   (D)   Authority over trees on private property.  The Village Administrator
shall have the authority and jurisdiction to regulate the maintenance and
removal of trees located upon private property as is necessary to ensure the
safety of both person and property.
   (E)   Supervision.  The Village Administrator shall supervise or inspect all
work done under a permit issued in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
   (F)   Permit conditions.  The Village Administrator may affix reasonable
conditions to the granting of a permit in accordance with terms of this
chapter.
   (G)   Master Street Tree Plan.  The Village Administrator may formulate a
Master Street Tree Plan. Such Plan shall specify the species of tree to be
planted on each of the streets or other public sites of the village. From and
after the effective date of the Master Street Tree Plan, or any amendment
thereof, all planting shall conform thereto.
      (1)   The Village Administrator shall consider all existing and future
utility and environmental factors when recommending a specific species for each
of the streets and other public sites in the village.
      (2)   The Village Administrator may amend or the Master Street Tree Plan
at any time.
(1997 Code, § 96.02)  (Ord. 715-83, passed 8-8-1983)
§ 96.03  PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Planting, maintenance or removal.
      (1)   Compliance required.  No person shall plant, fertilize, preserve,
prune, remove, cut above ground or otherwise disturb any tree on any street or
village owned property without first filing an application and procuring a
permit from a specified village authority. The person receiving the permit
shall abide by the specifications and standards of practice adopted by the
village.
      (2)   Application.  Application for permits shall be made at the office
of the Fiscal Officer or Village Administrator.
      (3)   Standards of issuance.  The Village Administrator shall issue
permits provided for herein if, in their judgment the proposed work is
desirable and the proposed method and workmanship thereof are of a satisfactory
nature. Any permit granted shall contain a date of expiration and the work
shall be completed in the time allowed on the permit and in the manner as
described. Any permit shall be void if its terms are violated.
      (4)   Notice of completion.  Notice of completion shall be given within
five days to the Village Administrator for an inspection.
   (B)   Planting.
      (1)   Application data.  The application required herein shall state the
number of trees to be set out, the location, grade, species or variety of each
tree, the method of planting and such other information as the Village
Administrator shall require.
      (2)   Improper planting.  Whenever any tree is planted or set out in
conflict with the provisions of this section, the Village Administrator may
remove or cause removal of the same, and the cost thereof shall be assessed to
the owner as provided by law in the case of special assessments.
   (C)   Maintenance; application data.  The required application shall state
the number and kinds of trees to be sprayed, fertilized, pruned or otherwise
preserved; the kind of treatment to be administered; the composition of the
spray material to be applied; and such other information as the Village
Administrator shall require.
   (D)   Removal, replanting and replacement.
      (1)   Wherever it is necessary to remove a tree or trees from a lawn
strip in connection with the paving of a sidewalk, or the paving or widening of
the portion of a street or highway used for vehicular traffic, the village
shall replant such trees or replace them. In the event that conditions prevent
planting or lawn strips, this requirement shall be satisfied if any equivalent
number of trees of the same size and species as provided for in the
specifications designated, by the Village Administrator are planted in an
attractive manner on the adjoining property.
      (2)   No person or property owner shall remove a tree from the lawn strip
for the purpose of construction, or for any other reason, without first filing
an application and procuring a permit from the Village Administrator, and
without replacing the removed tree or trees in accordance with the adopted
specifications. Such replacement shall meet the standards of size, species and
placement as provided for in a permit issued by the Village Administrator. The
person or property owner shall bear the cost of removal and replacement of all
trees removed.
(1997 Code, § 96.03)  (Ord. 715-83, passed 8-8-1983)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04  TREE PRUNING AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Pruning required.  It shall be the duty of any person or persons
owning or occupying private property bordering on any street upon which
property there may be trees, to prune the trees in such manner that they will
not obstruct or shade the street lights, obstruct the passage of pedestrians on
sidewalks, obstruct vision of traffic signs or obstruct view of any street or
alley intersection. The minimum clearance of any overhanging portion thereof
shall be ten feet over sidewalks, and 12 feet over all streets except truck
thoroughfares which shall have a clearance of 16 feet.
   (B)   Dead, dying or decaying trees.  It shall be the duty of any person or
persons owning or occupying private property to prune or cause the removal of
trees, when such tree or trees or a part thereof is dead, dying, decaying or in
a dangerous condition and is so located that if such tree or a part thereof
fell, that it could endanger life or property upon adjacent private property.
   (C)   Notice to prune and/or remove trees.  Should any person owning private
property fail to prune or remove trees as provided above, the Village
Administrator shall give written notice by personal service or certified or
registered mail to the owner of the property upon which such tree is located to
remove such tree or part thereof within 30 days of the date of service of such
notice.
   (D)   Procedure when owner fails to comply with notice. If the owner of
private property fails to comply with such notice, the Village Administrator
shall notify Council of such failure, and Council may order the pruning or
removal of the trees, as described in the notice. All expenses and labor costs
incurred shall be paid out of village funds not otherwise appropriated.
   (E)   Written return to County Auditor; amount a lien upon property. 
Council shall make a written return to the County Auditor of its action under
this section, including therewith a statement of the charges for services, the
amount paid for labor and a legal description of the premises. Such amount
shall be entered upon the tax duplicate and shall be a lien upon the property
and collected as other taxes and returned to the Village General Fund.
(1997 Code, § 96.04)  (Ord. 715-83, passed 8-8-1983)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05  ABUSE OR MUTILATION OF PUBLIC TREES.
   Unless specifically authorized by the Village Administrator, no person shall
intentionally damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree; attach any
rope, wire, nails, advertising posters or other contrivance to any tree; allow
any gaseous liquid or solid substance which is harmful to such tree to come in
contact with them; or set fire or permit any fire to burn which such fire or
the heat thereof shall injure any portion of any tree.
(1997 Code, § 96.05)  (Ord. 715-83, passed 8-8-1983)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06  PROTECTION OF TREES.
   (A)   All trees on any street or other publicly owned property near any
excavation or construction of any building, structure or street work, shall be
guarded with a good substantial fence, frame or box not less than four feet
high and eight feet square, and all building material, dirt or other debris
shall be kept outside the barrier.
   (B)   No person shall excavate any ditches, tunnels, trenches or lay any
drive within a radius of ten feet from any public tree without first obtaining
a written permit from the Village Administrator.
(1997 Code, § 96.06)  (Ord. 715-83, passed 8-8-1983)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07  PLACING MATERIALS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall deposit, place, store or maintain upon any public place of
the village, any stone, brick, sand, concrete or other materials which may
impede the free passage of water, air and fertilizer to the roots of any tree
growing therein, except by written permit of the Village Administrator.
(1997 Code, § 96.07)  (Ord. 715-83, passed 8-8-1983)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08  STREET TREE PLAN FOR NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   Any new street developed in a subdivision by a private developer and
dedicated to the village shall have a street plan approved by the Shade Tree
Committee and a bond posted in an amount to be determined by the Village
Administrator with Council’s approval, for future installation of the plan.
This requirement shall be added to the list of subdivision regulations.
(1997 Code, § 96.08)  (Ord. 715-83, passed 8-8-1983)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09  INTERFERENCE WITH VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   No person shall hinder, prevent, delay or interfere with the Village
Administrator while engaged in carrying out the execution or enforcement of
this chapter; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed as an
attempt to prohibit the pursuit of any remedy, legal or equitable, in any court
of competent jurisdiction for the protection of property rights by the owner of
any property within the village.
(1997 Code, § 96.09)  (Ord. 715-83, passed 8-8-1983)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined not more
than $100 and costs.
(1997 Code, § 96.99)  (Ord. 715-83, passed 8-8-1983)
CHAPTER 97:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
97.01   Residence on right-of-way
   
97.02   State Department of Transportation to maintain state highways
   
97.03   Public way fees
Street Improvements
   
97.10   Conditions precedent to improving streets
   
97.11   Encroachments
Street Excavations
   
97.20   Permit required; application information
   
97.21   Deposit
   
97.22   Barricades and warning devices
   
97.23   Restoration of pavement
Sidewalks
   
97.30   Duty to keep sidewalks in repair and clean
   
97.31   Encumbrances prohibited
   
97.32   Sidewalk obstructions
   
97.33   Removal of ice and snow
   
97.34   Construction and repair responsibility
   
97.35   Council may declare necessity for construction or repair
   
97.36   Notice to construct and repair
   
97.37   Assessment of cost against owner
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful congregation on sidewalks, see §
132.15
Statutory reference:
   Assessments generally, see R.C. Chapter 727
   Construction or repair of sidewalks at owner’s expense, see R.C. §§ 729.01
et seq.
   Dedication and acceptance, see R.C. § 723.03
   Digging, excavating and piling earth on streets, see R.C. § 5589.10
   Excavation liability, see R.C. § 723.49
   Openings by municipality, see R.C. § 723.02
   Power to establish and care for streets, see R.C. §§ 715.19, 717.01, 723.01
   Surface treatment, see R.C. § 723.23 and 723.31
   Vacation or establishment of streets by court, notice and hearings, see R.C.
§§ 723.09 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.01  RESIDENCE ON RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No person shall have a residence, place of dwelling or place of work, a
location on, within, or under the public roadways, bridges, or thoroughfares of
the village, for which valid zoning and building permits have been issued and
for which a valid post office address exists.
   (A)   As used in this section, roads, bridges and thoroughfares shall be the
same as that which is defined in the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   As used in this section, a valid post office address, shall be an
address to which mail could be otherwise delivered.
(Ord. 1259-12, passed 11-13-2012) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.02  STATE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION TO MAINTAIN STATE HIGHWAYS.
   The Ohio Department of Transportation shall maintain the traveled portions
of apply standard longitudinal pavement markings, erect regulatory and warning
signs, and to plow and place abrasives for ice control on the state highways in
the village in accordance with the standard practices of the Ohio Department of
Transportation.
(Ord. 1264-12, passed 1-7-2013)
§ 97.03  PUBLIC WAY FEES.
   The following public way fees apply to any electric power,
telecommunications, subscription television provider, electronic data, or other
wire-line or similar company that requires underground or aerial use of space
in the village public ways:
   (A)   Actual costs expended by the village for installation, relocation,
maintenance or replacement of the company’s facilities;
   (B)   For buried lines, a charge of $1 per linear foot per year for
administration and inspection;
   (C)   For aerial lines, a charge of $0.25 per linear foot per year for
administration and inspection; and
   (D)   An annual charge of $100 for administration.
(Ord. 1284-13, passed 12-2-2013)
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 97.10  CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO IMPROVING STREETS.
   No department of the village shall accept, lay out, open, improve, grade,
pave, curb or light any street or other way, unless such street or way has been
accepted or opened or otherwise received the legal status of a public street or
way, or unless such street or way corresponds in location and extent with a
street or way shown on a recorded plat which has been legally accepted by
Council.
(1997 Code, § 97.01)
§ 97.11  ENCROACHMENTS.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way in
the village, by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any fence
or building to remain thereon. Each day such fence or building is permitted to
remain upon such public way, shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 97.02)  Penalty, see §
97.99
STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 97.20  PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   No individual or firm shall make any cut into the paved portion of any
right-of-way within the village or remove any of the surface from any
improvement upon any public right-of-way within the village without first
accomplishing the following:
      (1)   Presenting a drawing of sufficient size to enable the individuals
reviewing such a drawing to determine the nature and extent of the work to be
done; and
      (2)   Presenting such drawing together with a written letter or
memorandum detailing the work to be done and approximately the time necessary
to accomplish it and the purpose of the work.
   (B)   The work shall not be initiated until a written permit has been
granted to the applicant by either of the following individuals who shall be
charged with the review of the documentation submitted and the issuance of a
permit:
      (1)   The Mayor of the village; or
      (2)   The Village Administrator.
(1997 Code, § 97.15)  (Ord. 670-81, passed 4-13-1981)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.21  DEPOSIT.
   No permit shall be issued until such time as a reasonable date of completion
of the project has been designated and the applicant has tendered to the Mayor
or the Village Administrator a bond in cash or negotiable instrument or by a
deposit of not less than $10 for every square foot of surface which shall be
disturbed. No permit shall be issued if the reviewing village official feels
that there is an engineering problem. If such is the case, the entire
application shall be referred to the Village Engineer for his or her review and
advice. If his or her advice is that there are engineering difficulties which
shall occur from the proposed work, then he or she shall make an estimate of
the total possible additional expenses which would be incurred in correcting
such engineering difficulties and this estimate shall be added onto the bond
amount required by the calculation of the square footage.
(1997 Code, § 97.16)  (Ord. 670-81, passed 4-13-1981)
§ 97.22  BARRICADES AND WARNING DEVICES.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times shall cause barricades and warning devices to be
securely and conspicuously posted on, at or near each end of such obstruction
or excavation so as to prevent injury or damage.
(1997 Code, § 97.17)
§ 97.23  RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   Should the applicant fail to properly replace and repair the pavement or
improvements which have been disturbed, the village may, after demand for
performance to return the surface, subsurface and improvements to their
original condition or better and the failure of the applicant to so do, cause
the work to be performed and the bond to be forfeited to the village treasury.
(1997 Code, § 97.18)  (Ord. 670-81, passed 4-13-1981)
SIDEWALKS
§ 97.30  DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN REPAIR AND CLEAN.
   No owner or occupant of lots or lands abutting any sidewalk, curb or gutter
shall fail to keep the sidewalks, curbs and gutters in repair and free from
snow, ice or any nuisance, and to remove from such sidewalks, curbs or gutters
all snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable time, which will
ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after any storm during which the snow and ice
has accumulated.
(R.C. § 723.011)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.31  ENCUMBRANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall encumber any sidewalk within the village by erecting thereon
any fence or building, or permitting any such fence or building to remain
thereon. Each day that any such fence or building is permitted to remain upon a
public way shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 97.31)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.32  SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any sidewalk or, being the owner, occupant or
person having care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street or
sidewalk, shall permit the same to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
   (B)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a sidewalk,
playground or other public place any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or
other articles which may damage property of another or injure any person or
animal traveling along or upon such sidewalk or playground.
   (C)   No person shall walk on, or allow any animal upon, or injure or deface
in any way, any soft or newly laid sidewalk pavement.
   (D)   No person shall place, deposit or maintain any merchandise, goods,
material or equipment upon any sidewalk so as to obstruct pedestrian traffic
thereon except for such reasonable time as may be actually necessary for the
delivery or pickup of such articles. In no case shall the obstruction remain on
such sidewalk for more than one hour.
   (E)   No person shall unload upon, or transport any heavy merchandise,
goods, material or equipment over or across any sidewalk or curb without first
placing some sufficient protection over the pavement to protect against damage
or injury. The affected area shall be rendered safe and free from danger.
   (F)   No person shall allow any cellar or trap door, coal chute or elevator
or lift opening in any sidewalk to remain open without providing suitable
safeguards to protect and warn pedestrian traffic of the dangerous condition.
   (G)   Whoever violates divisions (B) through (F) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 97.32)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.33  REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   (A)   The owner, occupant or person having the care of any building or lot
of land bordering on any street with graded or paved sidewalks, within the
first four hours after daylight, following or during fall of snow, shall cause
the snow to be removed from such sidewalk, and this provision includes snow or
ice falling from any building.
   (B)   Whenever any sidewalk or any part thereof becomes encumbered with ice,
the owner, occupant or person in control, within the first four hours after
daylight following or during its formation, shall cause such sidewalk to be
made safe by removing such ice or sprinkling the same with sand or other
suitable substance.
(1997 Code, § 97.33)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.34  CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR RESPONSIBILITY.
   The construction or repair of sidewalks within the village shall be the
responsibility of the owners of lots or lands abutting thereon. Property owners
must receive a permit prior to making the construction and/or repair. A village
official must confirm the condemnable portion of the sidewalk as part of the
permit application. A licensed contractor must be hired to do the work. Upon
completion of the work, within 30 days after the completion of the repairs, the
property owner must submit the contractor’s invoice to receive payment from the
village for 20% of the condemnable portion of sidewalk. Upon failure of such
owners to construct or repair such sidewalks within the time prescribed by
Council, the Council may cause such sidewalks to be constructed and/or
repaired, and assess the total cost thereof against the lots or lands abutting
thereon.
(1997 Code, § 97.34)  (Ord. 909-96, passed 7-22-1996)  Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Construction or repair of sidewalks, curbs and gutters at expense of owners,
see R.C. § 729.01
§ 97.35  COUNCIL MAY DECLARE NECESSITY FOR CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR.
   (A)   When it is deemed necessary by the municipality to require the
construction or repair of sidewalks, curbs or gutters within the municipality
by the owners of the lots or lands abutting thereon, the Village Council shall
cause plans, specifications and an estimate of the cost of such construction or
repair to be prepared, showing the location and dimensions of such sidewalks,
curbs or gutters and the specifications for the construction or repair thereof,
and to be filed in the office of the Fiscal Officer.
   (B)   After such plans, specifications and estimate of cost have been filed,
as provided in this section, the Village Council may declare the necessity for
the construction or repair of such sidewalks, curbs or gutters by the adoption
of a resolution which shall:
      (1)   Approve the plans, specifications and estimate of cost of the
proposed construction or repair on file as provided by this section;
      (2)   Describe the lots and lands abutting upon the sidewalks, curbs or
gutters to be constructed or repaired by the termini of the improvement or by
the street address;
      (3)   Set forth that such sidewalks, curbs or gutters shall be
constructed or repaired by the owners of the lots or lands abutting thereon in
accordance with the specifications on file in the office of the Fiscal Officer;
      (4)   Set forth the time within which such sidewalks, curbs or gutters
shall be constructed or repaired by the owners of the lots and lands abutting
thereon, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of service of
notice under §
97.36 on the owner of the lots or lands; or
      (5)   State than in the event such sidewalks, curbs or gutters are not
constructed or repaired by the owners of the lots and lands abutting thereon in
accordance with such plans and specifications and within the time prescribed in
this resolution, the municipality will so construct or repair such sidewalks,
curbs or gutters and assess the costs thereof against the lots and lands
abutting thereon.
(R.C. § 729.02)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.36  NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT AND REPAIR.
   Notice of the passage of a resolution of necessity under §
97.35 shall be served by the Fiscal Officer, or a person designated by such
Fiscal Officer, upon the owners of the lots or lands abutting upon the
sidewalks, curbs or gutters to be constructed or repaired in the same manner as
service of summons in civil cases, or by certified mail addressed to such owner
at his or her last known address or to the address to which tax bills are sent,
or by a combination of the foregoing methods. If it appears by the return of
service or the return of the certified mail notice that one or more of the
owners cannot be found, such owners shall be served by publication of the
notice once in a newspaper of general circulation within the municipality. The
return of the person serving the notice or a certified copy thereof or a
returned receipt for notice forwarded by certified mail accepted by the
addressee or anyone purporting to act for him or her shall be prima facie
evidence of the service of notice under this section. The notice shall also set
forth the place where the specifications governing the construction or repair
of such sidewalks, curbs or gutters are on file, the time within which the
owner of such lot or parcel of land may construct or repair the sidewalks,
curbs or gutters, and that in the event the owner does not construct or repair
the sidewalks, curbs or gutters in accordance with the specifications and
within such time, the municipality will construct or repair such sidewalks,
curbs or gutters and assess the costs thereof against the lot or land of the
owner.
(R.C. § 729.03)
§ 97.37  ASSESSMENT OF COST AGAINST OWNER.
   Upon the expiration of the time within which sidewalks shall be constructed
or repaired by the owner of the lots or lands abutting thereon as set forth in
the notice adopted under §
97.35, the sidewalks not constructed or repaired by the owners of the lots and
lands thereon shall be constructed or repaired by the village and Council
shall, upon the completion of such construction or repair, assess the cost
thereof against the lots or lands abutting thereon. When condemned sidewalks
are repaired by the village and the cost of such repair is the responsibility
of the owners of the lots or lands abutting thereon, then any such owner who
pays the cost of the repairs to their sidewalks within 60 days from the
completion date of the repair shall receive a discount of 20% of the total
amount of their assessment. After 60 days the assessment shall be placed on the
owner’s tax bill at 100% of the cost of the repairs.
(1997 Code, § 97.37)  (Ord. 909-96, passed 7-22-1996)  Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Assessment authorized, see R.C. § 729.04
§ 97.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
97.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
97.30 or
97.32(B) through (F) shall be subject to the provisions of §
130.99.
   (C)   Whoever violates any other provision of this chapter shall be fined
not more than $500, imprisoned not more than six months, or both. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense. Each opening made in violation
of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 97.99)  (Ord. 1259-12, passed 11-13-2012)
CHAPTER 98:  UNCLAIMED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
98.01   Impounding motor vehicle on private property; requirements
   
98.02   Impounding abandoned motor vehicle on public property; notice;
disposition
   
98.03   Disposition of vehicle ordered into storage
   
98.04   Disposition of abandoned junk motor vehicles
   
98.05   Prohibition against abandonment of junk motor vehicle
   
98.06   Junk motor vehicle; order to cover or remove; notice; exceptions
   
98.07   Impounding of vehicles; redemption
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances generally, see
Chapter 94
§ 98.01  IMPOUNDING MOTOR VEHICLE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Police Chief of the municipality, upon complaint of any
person adversely affected, may order into storage any motor vehicle, other than
an abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in §
98.04, that has been left on private residential or private agricultural
property for at least four hours without the permission of the of person having
the right to the possession of the property. The Police Chief, upon complaint
of the owner of a repair garage or place of storage, may order into storage any
motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk motor vehicle, that has been left
at the garage or place of storage for a longer period than that agreed upon.
The place of storage shall be designated by the Police Chief. When ordering a
motor vehicle into storage pursuant to this division (A)(1), the Police Chief,
whenever possible, shall arrange for the removal of the motor vehicle by a
private tow truck operator or towing company. Subject to division (C) of this
section, the owner of a motor vehicle that has been removed pursuant to this
division (A)(1) may recover the vehicle only in accordance with division (E) of
this section.
      (2)   Divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3) of this section do not apply to any
private residential or private agricultural property that is established as a
private tow-away zone in accordance with division (B) of this section.
      (3)   As used in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section, PRIVATE
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY means private property on which is located one or more
structures that are used as a home, residence or sleeping place by one or more
persons, if no more than three separate households are maintained in the
structure or structures. The term does not include any private property on
which is located one or more structures that are used as a home, residence or
sleeping place by two or more persons, if more than three separate households
are maintained in the structure or structures.
   (B)   (1)   The owner of private property may establish a private tow-away
zone only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
         (a)   The owner posts on the owner’s property a sign that is at least
18 inches by 24 inches in size, that is visible from all entrances to the
property, and that contains at least all of the following information:
            1.   A notice that the property is a private tow-away zone and that
vehicles not authorized to park on the property will be towed away;
            2.   The telephone number of the person from whom a towed-away
vehicle can be recovered, and the address of the place to which the vehicle
will be taken and the place from which it may be recovered; and
            3.   A statement that the vehicle may be recovered at any time
during the day or night upon the submission of proof of ownership and the
payment of a towing charge, in an amount not to exceed $90, and a storage
charge, in an amount not to exceed $12 per 24-hour period; except that the
charge for towing shall not exceed $150, and the storage charge shall not
exceed $20 per 24-hour period, if the vehicle has a manufacturer’s gross
vehicle weight rating in excess of 10,000 pounds and is a truck, bus, or a
combination of a commercial tractor and trailer or semitrailer.
         (b)   The place to which the towed vehicle is taken and from which it
may be recovered is conveniently located, is well lighted and is on or within a
reasonable distance of a regularly scheduled route of one or more modes of
public transportation, if any public transportation is available in the
municipality in which the private tow-away zone is located.
      (2)   If a vehicle is parked on private property that is established as a
private tow-away zone in accordance with division (B)(1) of this section
without the consent of the owner of the property or in violation of any posted
parking condition or regulation, the owner or the owner’s agent may remove or
cause the removal of the vehicle, the owner and the operator of the vehicle
shall be deemed to have consented to the removal and storage of the vehicle and
to the payment of the towing and storage charges specified in division (B)(1)
(a)3. of this section, and the owner, subject to division (C) of this section,
may recover a vehicle that has been so removed only in accordance with division
(E) of this section.
      (3)   If the municipality requires tow trucks and tow truck operators to
be licensed, no owner of private property located within the municipality shall
remove or shall cause the removal and storage of any vehicle pursuant to
division (B)(2) of this section by an unlicensed tow truck or unlicensed tow
truck operator.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this section do not affect or
limit the operation of division (A) of this section, §§
98.02 through
98.05 or R.C. §§ 4513.61 through 4513.65 as they relate to property other than
private property that is established as a private tow-away zone under division
(B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   If the owner or operator of a vehicle that has been ordered into
storage pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section or of a vehicle that is
being removed under authority of division (B)(2) of this section arrives after
the vehicle has been prepared for removal but prior to its actual removal from
the property, the owner or operator shall be given the opportunity to pay a fee
of not more than one-half of the charge for the removal of vehicles under
division (A)(1) of this section or of vehicles under division (B)(2) of this
section, whichever is applicable, that normally is assessed by the person who
has prepared the vehicle for removal, in order to obtain release of the
vehicle. Upon payment of that fee, the vehicle shall be released to the owner
or operator, and upon its release, the owner or operator immediately shall move
it so that:
      (1)   If the motor vehicle was ordered into storage pursuant to division
(A)(1) of this section, it is not on the private residential or private
agricultural property without the permission of the person having the right to
possession of the property, or is not at the garage or place of storage without
the permission of the owner, whichever is applicable; and
      (2)   If the vehicle was being removed under authority of division (B)(2)
of this section, it is not parked on the private property established as a
private tow-away zone without the consent of the owner or in violation of any
posted parking condition or regulation.
   (D)   (1)   If an owner of private property that is established as a private
tow-away zone in accordance with division (B)(1) of this section or the
authorized agent of such an owner removes or causes the removal of a vehicle
from that property under authority of division (B)(2) of this section, the
owner or agent promptly shall notify the Police Department of the removal, the
vehicle’s license number, make, model and color, the location from which it was
removed, the date and time of its removal, the telephone number of the person
from whom it may be recovered, and the address of the place to which it has
been taken and from which it may be recovered.
      (2)   The Police Chief shall maintain a record of vehicles that the
Police Chief orders into storage pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section
and of vehicles removed from private property in the Police Chief’s
jurisdiction that is established as a private tow-away zone of which the Police
Chief has received notice under division (D)(1) of this section. The record
shall include an entry for each such vehicle that identifies the vehicle’s
license number, make, model and color, the location from which it was removed,
the date and time of its removal, the telephone number of the person from whom
it may be recovered, and the address of the place to which it has been taken
and from which it may be recovered. Any information in the record that pertains
to a particular vehicle shall be provided to any person who, either in person
or pursuant to a telephone call, identifies himself or herself as the owner or
operator of the vehicle and requests information pertaining to its location.
      (3)   Any person who registers a complaint that is the basis of the
Police Chief’s order for the removal and storage of a vehicle under division
(A)(1) of this section shall provide the identity of the law enforcement agency
with which the complaint was registered to any person who identifies himself or
herself as the owner or operator of the motor vehicle and requests information
pertaining to its location.
   (E)   The owner of a vehicle that is ordered into storage pursuant to
division (A)(1) of this section or of a vehicle that is removed under authority
of division (B)(2) of this section may reclaim it upon payment of any expenses
or charges incurred in its removal, in an amount not to exceed $90, and
storage, in an amount not to exceed $12 per 24-hour period; except that the
charge for towing shall not exceed $150, and the storage charge shall not
exceed $20 per 24-hour period, if the vehicle has a manufacturer’s gross
vehicle weight rating in excess of 10,000 pounds and is a truck, bus or a
combination of a commercial tractor and trailer or semitrailer. Presentation of
proof of ownership which may be evidenced by a certificate of title to the
vehicle also shall be required for reclamation of the vehicle. If a vehicle
that is ordered into storage pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section
remains unclaimed by the owner for 30 days, the procedures established by §§
98.02 and
98.03 shall apply.
   (F)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any vehicle from
private property that is established as a private tow-away zone under division
(B)(1) of this section other than in accordance with division (B)(2) of this
section, and no person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any motor vehicle
from any other private property other than in accordance with division (A)(1)
of this section, §§
98.02 through
98.05 or R.C. §§ 4513.61 through 4513.65.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.60)
§ 98.02  IMPOUNDING ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; NOTICE;
DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The Police Chief of the municipality may order into storage any motor
vehicle, including an abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in §
98.04, that has come into the possession of the Police Chief as a result of the
Police Chief’s duties or that has been left on a public street or other
property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel, or upon or within
the right-of-way of any road or highway, for 48 hours or longer without
notification to the Police Chief of the reasons for leaving the motor vehicle
in such place, except that when such motor vehicle constitutes an obstruction
to traffic, it may be ordered into storage immediately. The Police Chief shall
designate the place of storage of any motor vehicle so ordered removed.
   (B)   The Police Chief immediately shall cause a search to be made of the
records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles to ascertain the owner and any
lienholder of a motor vehicle ordered into storage by the Police Chief, and if
known, shall send or cause to be sent notice to the owner or lienholder at his
or her last known address by certified mail with return receipt requested, that
the motor vehicle will be declared a nuisance and disposed of if not claimed
within ten days of the date of mailing of the notice. The owner or lienholder
of the motor vehicle may reclaim it upon payment of any expenses or charges
incurred in its removal and storage, and presentation of proof of ownership,
which may be evidenced by a certificate of title or memorandum certificate of
title to the motor vehicle. If the owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle
reclaims it after a search of the records of the Bureau has been conducted and
after notice has been sent to the owner or lienholder as described in this
section, and the search was conducted by the owner of the place of storage or
the owner’s employee, and the notice was sent to the motor vehicle owner by the
owner of the place of storage or the owner’s employee, the owner or lienholder
shall pay to the place of storage a processing fee of $25, in addition to any
expenses or charged incurred in the removal and storage of the vehicle.
   (C)   If the owner or lienholder makes no claim to the motor vehicle within
ten days of the date of mailing the notice, and if the vehicle is to be
disposed of at public auction as provided in §
98.03, the Police Chief, without charge to any party, shall file with the Clerk
of courts of the county in which the place of storage is located an affidavit
showing compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 4513.61. Upon presentation
of the affidavit, the Clerk, without charge, shall issue a salvage certificate
of title, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances, to the Police Chief. If
the vehicle is to be disposed of to a motor vehicle salvage dealer or other
facility as provided in §
98.03, the Police Chief shall execute in triplicate an affidavit, as prescribed
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, describing the motor vehicle and the manner
in which it was disposed, and that all requirements of R.C. § 4513.61 have been
complied with. The Police Chief shall retain the original of the affidavit for
his or her records, and shall furnish two copies to the motor vehicle salvage
dealer or other facility. Upon presentation of a copy of the affidavit by the
motor vehicle salvage dealer, the Clerk of courts, within 30 days of the
presentation, will issue to such owner a salvage certificate of title, free and
clear of all liens and encumbrances.
   (D)   Whenever a motor vehicle salvage dealer or other facility receives
such an affidavit for the disposal of a motor vehicle as provided in this
section, the dealer or facility is not required to obtain a state certificate
of title to the motor vehicle in the dealer’s or facility’s own name if the
vehicle is dismantled or destroyed and both copies of the affidavit are
delivered to the Clerk of courts.
(R.C. § 4513.61)
§ 98.03  DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE ORDERED INTO STORAGE.
   Unclaimed motor vehicles ordered into storage pursuant to §
98.01(A)(1) or §
98.02 shall be disposed of at the order of the Police Chief to a motor vehicle
salvage dealer or scrap metal processing facility as defined in R.C. § 4737.05,
or to any other facility owned by or under contract with the municipality for
the disposal of such motor vehicles, or shall be sold by the Police Chief or
licensed auctioneer at public auction after giving public notice by
advertisement, published once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county or as provided in R.C. § 7.16. Any monies
accruing from the disposition of an unclaimed motor vehicle that are in excess
of the expenses resulting from the removal and storage of the vehicle shall be
credited to the General Fund of the municipality.
(R.C. § 4513.62)
§ 98.04  DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section, ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE means any motor
vehicle meeting all of the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle is left on private property for 48 hours or longer
without the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property, on a public street or other property open to the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road
or highway for 48 hours or longer;
      (2)   The vehicle is three years old or older;
      (3)   The vehicle is extensively damaged, such damage including but not
limited to any of the following: missing wheels; tires; motor; or transmission;
      (4)   The vehicle is apparently inoperable; and
      (5)   The vehicle has a fair market value of $1,500 or less.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall order any abandoned junk motor vehicle to be
photographed by a law enforcement officer. The officer shall record the make of
motor vehicle, the serial number when available, and shall also detail the
damage or missing equipment to substantiate the value of $1,500 or less. The
Police Chief shall thereupon immediately dispose of the abandoned junk motor
vehicle to a motor vehicle salvage dealer as defined in R.C. § 4738.01 or a
scrap metal processing facility as defined in R.C. § 4737.05 which is under
contract to the municipality, or to any other facility owned by or under
contract with the municipality for the destruction of such motor vehicles. The
records and photographs relating to the abandoned junk motor vehicle shall be
retained by the law enforcement agency ordering the disposition of such vehicle
for a period of at least two years. The law enforcement agency shall execute in
quadruplicate an affidavit, as prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
describing the motor vehicle and the manner in which it was disposed of, and
that all requirements of R.C. § 4513.63 have been complied with, and, within 30
days of disposing of the vehicle, shall sign and file the affidavit with the
Clerk of courts of the county in which the motor vehicle was abandoned. The
Clerk of courts retains the original of the affidavit for the Clerk’s files,
furnishes one copy thereof to the Registrar, one copy to the motor vehicle
salvage dealer or other facility handling the disposal of the vehicle, and one
copy to the law enforcement agency ordering the disposal, who shall file such
copy with the records and photograph relating to the disposal. Any monies
arising from the disposal of an abandoned junk motor vehicle shall be deposited
in the General Fund of the municipality.
   (C)   Notwithstanding §
98.02, any motor vehicle meeting the requirements of divisions (A)(2), (A)(3)
and (A)(5) of this section which has remained unclaimed by the owner or
lienholder for a period of ten days or longer following notification as
provided in §
98.02 may be disposed of as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.63)
§ 98.05  PROHIBITION AGAINST ABANDONMENT OF JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall willfully leave an abandoned junk motor vehicle
as defined in §
98.04 on private property for more than 72 hours without the permission of the
person having the right to the possession of the property, or on a public
street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road or highway for 48 hours
or longer without notification to the Police Chief of the reason for leaving
the motor vehicle in such place.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the fact that a motor vehicle has
been so left without permission or notification is prima facie evidence of
abandonment.
      (3)   Nothing contained in §§
98.01,
98.02 and
98.04 and R.C. §§ 4513.60, 4513.61 and 4513.63 shall invalidate or prevent the
enactment of further provisions of municipal ordinances regulating or
prohibiting the abandonment of motor vehicles on streets, highways, public
property or private property within the municipality.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
shall also be assessed any costs incurred by the municipality in disposing of
the abandoned junk motor vehicle that is the basis of the violation, less any
money accruing to the municipality from the disposal of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.64)
§ 98.06  JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE; ORDER TO COVER OR REMOVE; NOTICE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle meeting all the following
requirements:
         (a)   Three years old or older;
         (b)   Extensively damaged, such damage including but not limited to
any of the following: a broken window or windshield; missing wheels, tires,
motor or transmission;
         (c)   Apparently inoperable; and
         (d)   Having a fair market value of $1,500 or less.
   (B)   Any junk motor vehicle that is left uncovered in the open on private
property for more than 72 hours with the permission of the person having the
right to possession of the property, except if the person is operating a junk
yard or scrap metal processing facility licensed under authority of R.C. §§
4737.05 to 4737.12; or regulated under authority of a political subdivision; or
if the property on which the motor vehicle is left is not subject to licensure
or regulation by any governmental authority.
   (C)   The Chief of Police of the village, within his or her respective
territorial jurisdiction, the legislative authority of the village or the
Village Administrator may send notice by certified mail with a return receipt
requested to the person having the right to possession of the property on which
a junk motor vehicle is left, that within ten days of receipt of the notice,
the junk motor vehicle either shall be covered by being housed in a garage or
other suitable structure, or shall be removed from the property.
   (D)   No person shall willfully leave a junk motor vehicle uncovered in the
open for more than ten days after receipt of a notice as provided in division
(C) of this section. The fact that a junk motor vehicle is left is prima facie
evidence of willful failure to comply with the notice and each subsequent
period of 30 days that a junk motor vehicle continues to be so left constitutes
a separate offense.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $100 for
each violation.
(1997 Code, § 98.06)  (Ord. 1014-03, passed 8-4-2003)
§ 98.07  IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal of a vehicle
under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge or
causeway and is so illegally parked so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction
to the normal movement of traffic, or so as to unreasonably interfere with
street cleaning or snow removal operations;
      (2)   When any vehicle or abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4513.63 is left on private property for more than 72 consecutive hours
without the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property, or on a public street or other property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of
any road or highway, for 48 consecutive hours or longer, without notification
to the Police Chief of the reasons for leaving such vehicle in such place.
Prior to disposal of an abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4513.63, it shall be photographed by a law enforcement officer;
      (3)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner and is located upon either public or private property;
      (4)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to
display the current lawfully required plates and is located upon any public
street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking;
      (5)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission
of a felony and is located upon either public or private property;
      (6)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable
or violates equipment provisions of the Traffic Code whereby its continued
operation would constitute a condition hazardous to life, limb or property, and
is located upon any public street or other property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking;
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended either on public or private
property due to the removal of an ill, injured or arrested operator, or due to
the abandonment thereof by the operator during or immediately after pursuit by
a law enforcement officer;
      (8)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of an accident or collision and is located either on public or
private property;
      (9)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his or her license has been suspended or
revoked and is located upon a public street or other property open to the
public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking; or
      (10)   When any vehicle is found for which two or more citation tags for
violations of the Traffic Code have been issued and the owner or operator
thereof has failed to respond to such citation tags as lawfully required, and
is located upon a public street or other property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking.
   (B)   Any vehicle removed under authority of this section shall be ordered
into storage and the procedures for notice and disposition of the vehicle
established in §§
98.02 and
98.03 shall apply. In addition to the procedures established in §§
98.02 and
98.03, and prior to issuance of a release form, the claimant, owner or operator
shall either pay the amount due for any fines for violations on account of
which such vehicle was impounded or, as the court may require, post a bond in
an amount set by the court, to appear to answer to such violations. The pound
operator shall release such vehicle upon the receipt of the release form and
payment of all towage and storage charges.
   (C)   No owner or operator shall remove an impounded vehicle from the place
of storage without complying with the above procedure. Possession of a vehicle
which has been impounded and unlawfully taken from the place of storage, by the
owner or operator, shall constitute prima facie evidence that it was so removed
by the owner or operator.
(1997 Code, § 98.07)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
111.   COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   DISTRESS MERCHANDISE SALES
      
113.   ITINERANT VENDORS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   TAXICABS
CHAPTER 110:  CABLE TELEVISION
Section
Cable Television
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Indemnification of village
   
110.03   Service standards
   
110.04   Condition on street occupancy
   
110.05   Free connections and service
   
110.06   Records and reports
   
110.07   Activities prohibited
   
110.08   Payments to the village
   
110.09   Bond
   
110.10   Company rules
   
110.11   Terms of contract; failure to comply
Video Service Provider Fee
   
110.25   Fee; calculation
   
110.26   Payment
   
110.27   Notice
CABLE TELEVISION
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPANY.  The grantee of rights under this chapter.
   GRANTOR.  The Village of Batavia, Ohio.
   PERSON.  Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   SYSTEMS.  The entire installation.
(1997 Code, § 110.01)  (Ord. 704-83, passed 1-10-1983)
§ 110.02  INDEMNIFICATION OF VILLAGE.
   It is expressly understood and agreed by and between the company and the
village that the company shall save the village harmless from all loss
sustained by the village on account of any suit from the construction,
operation or maintenance on the part of the company or its television system in
the village. The village shall notify the company immediately after the
presentation of any claim or demand, either by suit or otherwise, made against
the village on account of any activity as aforesaid on the part of the company.
The company shall carry and pay the cost of $1,000,000 blanket coverage
insurance to any one person or property for one accident, in at least the
amount indicated for each injury to, or death of persons and injury to, or
destruction of property as a result of any accident arising out of the conduct
of business or use of premises or any operations which are necessary or
incidental thereto, and same to include the village as a named insured.
(1997 Code, § 110.03)  (Ord. 704-83, passed 1-10-1983)
§ 110.03  SERVICE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The company shall maintain and operate its system and render efficient
service in accordance with the rules and regulations as set forth in this
chapter.
   (B)   Whenever it is necessary to shut off or interrupt service for the
purpose of making repairs, adjustments or installations, the company shall do
so at such times as shall cause the least amount of inconvenience to its
customers, and unless such interruption is unforeseen and immediately
necessary, it shall give reasonable notice thereof to its customers.
(1997 Code, § 110.04)  (Ord. 704-83, passed 1-10-1983)
§ 110.04  CONDITION ON STREET OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   The company’s system, poles, wires and appurtenances shall be located,
erected and maintained so that none of it shall endanger or interfere with the
lives of persons, or interfere with any improvement that the village may deem
proper to make, or hinder unnecessarily or obstruct the free use of the
streets, alleys, bridges or other public property.
   (B)   Construction and maintenance of the transmission distribution system
including house connections, shall be in accordance with the provisions of the
National Electric Safety Code of the National Board of Fire Underwriters,
prepared by the National Bureau of Standards, the National Electrical Code of
the National Board of Fire Underwriters and such applicable regulations of the
village affecting electrical installations which may be presently in effect or
may be enacted by the village. Installation and house drop hardware shall be
uniform throughout the village except the company shall be free to change their
hardware and installation procedure as the art progresses.
   (C)   Whenever the activities of the company shall damage any surface,
pavement or sidewalk, the company shall at its expense restore all such
surface, pavement or sidewalk to the satisfaction of the village. In the event
any street or way is altered by the village requiring the alterations or
removal of any part of the company’s system, the company shall bear the cost of
such alteration or removal.
   (D)   The village shall not be liable for damage to the company’s lines
caused by its forces while in the conduct of its village affairs and the
company hereby releases the village from all claims growing out of such damage.
(1997 Code, § 110.05)  (Ord. 704-83, passed 1-10-1983)
§ 110.05  FREE CONNECTIONS AND SERVICE.
   Upon request, the company shall furnish, free of charge, outside connections
and service, to all public schools located within the village and to village
buildings when other connections are being made within a particular area;
provided, however, that any and all inside wiring work shall be done at the
expense of the school or village, as the case may be and provided that a
service cable runs in reasonable proximity to such building.
(1997 Code, § 110.07)  (Ord. 704-83, passed 1-10-1983)
§ 110.06  RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The village shall have access at all reasonable hours to all of the
company’s plans, contracts and engineering, statistical, customer records
relating to the property and the operation of the company and to all other
records required to be kept hereunder.
   (B)   The following records and reports shall be filed with the village and
in the local office of the company:
      (1)   Company rules and regulations.  Copies of such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions adopted by the company for the conduct of its business;
and
      (2)   Gross revenue.  An annual certified audit showing gross revenues
received by the company from its operations within the village during the
preceding year from the basic services.
(1997 Code, § 110.08)  (Ord. 704-83, passed 1-10-1983)
§ 110.07  ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   The company shall not allow its cable or other operations to interfere with
television reception of persons not served by the cable, nor shall it interfere
with, obstruct or hinder in any manner, the operation of the various utilities
servicing the residents of the village. The company shall not perform repair
services to television sets and shall not permit any of its employees,
installers or servicemen to perform such services on their own.
(1997 Code, § 110.10)  (Ord. 704-83, passed 1-10-1983)
§ 110.08  PAYMENTS TO THE VILLAGE.
   The company shall pay to the village, in addition to any and all privilege
licenses, and ad valorem taxes or other charges hereafter levied by the
village, a portion to be determined by ordinance or resolution of the annual
gross operating revenues received by it within the village during each year of
operation under this contract. Gross revenues shall be considered as those
revenues received from customers for basic service only. Payments to be made to
the village as provided herein shall be made on the basis of the customer count
as determined quarterly and are to be paid quarterly.
(1997 Code, § 110.11)  (Ord. 704-83, passed 1-10-1983)
§ 110.09  BOND.
   The company shall deposit $2,000 with the Fiscal Officer as a performance
bond. This bond shall be forfeited to the village as liquidated damages if any
of the provisions of this contract are not performed by the company, or if the
company does not begin construction within one year of this chapter or complete
construction within 18 months of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 110.12)  (Ord. 704-83, passed 1-10-1983)
§ 110.10  COMPANY RULES.
   The company shall have authority to promulgate such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions governing the conduct of its business as shall be
reasonable and necessary to enable the company to exercise its rights and
perform its obligations under this contract and to assure an uninterrupted
service to each and all of its customers; provided, however, that such rules,
regulations, terms and conditions shall not be in conflict with the provisions
hereof or of any laws or rules of the state, the United States or the
ordinances of the village.
(1997 Code, § 110.13)  (Ord. 704-83, passed 1-10-1983)
§ 110.11  TERMS OF CONTRACT; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   If the company shall fail to comply with any of the provisions of this
contract or default in any of its obligations in this agreement and shall fail,
within 60 days after written notice from the village to correct such default or
noncompliance, the village may, at its option, forthwith terminate the rights
granted under this contract. In the event that the village terminates this
agreement, in whole or in part, the company shall within 60 days remove its
facilities, and in the event the company does not remove its facilities within
60 days, the village may do so, the removal costs to be borne, in any event, by
the company.
   (B)   Failure to enforce or insist upon compliance with any of the terms or
conditions of this agreement shall not constitute a general waiver or
relinquishment of any such terms or conditions, but the same shall be and
remain at all times in full force and effect.
(1997 Code, § 110.14)  (Ord. 704-83, passed 1-10-1983)
VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
§ 110.25  FEE; CALCULATION.
   The Village Council hereby establishes the VSP fee that is calculated by
applying a VSP fee percentage of 5% to the video service provider’s gross
revenues as defined by R.C. § 1332.32(B) of the Video Law. All video service
providers and cable television operators in the village shall apply the VSP fee
percentage against gross revenues as defined by the Video Law, being R.C.
Chapter 1332.
(Ord. 1194-09, passed 12-7-2009; Ord. 1288-13, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 110.26  PAYMENT.
   The VSP fee shall be paid by each video service provider providing service
in the village on a quarterly basis but not sooner than 45 days nor later than
60 days after the end of each calendar quarter as provided in R.C. § 1332.32
(A).
(Ord. 1194-09, passed 12-7-2009; Ord. 1288-13, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 110.27  NOTICE.
   The Village Administrator is hereby authorized and directed to provide any
video service provider with notice of the VSP fee percentage as determined by
this Council above, which notice shall be given by certified mail upon receipt
of notice from such video service provider that it will begin providing video
service in the village pursuant to a state-issued video service authorization.
(Ord. 1194-09, passed 12-7-2009; Ord. 1288-13, passed 12-2-2013)
CHAPTER 111:  COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
Section
Billiard or Pool Tables
   
111.01   License fee required
   
111.02   Hours of operation
Circuses, Carnivals and Exhibitions
   
111.15   License approval and term
   
111.16   License fee; waiver
   
111.17   Deposit for use of village property
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate, see R.C. §§ 715.48, 715.63, 3765.02
BILLIARD OR POOL TABLES
§ 111.01  LICENSE FEE REQUIRED.
   Each proprietor of a billiard or pool table shall pay an annual license fee
of $10 for the first table and $5 for each additional table.
(1997 Code, § 111.01)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No proprietor for profit of a pool or billiard table shall permit the use of
such table between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m.
(1997 Code, § 111.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS AND EXHIBITIONS
§ 111.15  LICENSE APPROVAL AND TERM.
   (A)   Each person, desiring to conduct or give a circus, menagerie,
carnival, sideshow, musical or minstrel entertainment or exhibition for which
money or reward is demanded or received, shall first obtain a license and pay
the license fee provided herein.
   (B)   The applicant for a license to conduct, stage or give such exhibition
shall give at least one week’s notice in writing to the Mayor, stating the
dates of the performances, and the location at which they are to be presented.
The Mayor shall give his or her consent to the issuance of such license if he
or she deems the location suitable for the purpose; that it will properly
accommodate the patrons; that the nature of the performance or exhibition is
morally proper; and the use of such location will not throw too great a burden
upon the Police and Fire Departments.
   (C)   No circus, menagerie or carnival shall be given for more than two
consecutive days, except in cases where Council by special resolution allows a
longer period, or where such exhibition is to be conducted on village property
and the use thereof for a longer period has been approved by Council.
(1997 Code, § 111.15)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.16  LICENSE FEE; WAIVER.
   (A)   The fee for a license for each circus, carnival, sideshow, musical or
minstrel entertainment or exhibition shall be $25 for the first day and $10 for
each day thereafter; provided that such fee shall not exceed more than $50 in
any one week.
   (B)   The Mayor may, in his or her discretion, grant without cost a license
for the holding of a circus, carnival, sideshow, musical or minstrel
entertainment or exhibition for not more than six consecutive days, where all
of the performances are fostered and supervised by civic interests of the
village, and a substantial part of the funds derived therefrom is expended for
charitable or civic purposes.
(1997 Code, § 111.16)
§ 111.17  DEPOSIT FOR USE OF VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   At the time an application for a license is made, where use of village
grounds is contemplated, the applicant shall deposit with the Fiscal Officer a
cash bond sufficient in amount under the circumstances, and conditioned upon
the restoration and cleaning up of the grounds in a manner satisfactory to the
Mayor. In the event such grounds are restored and cleaned up properly following
the exhibition, the deposit shall be returned, otherwise the same shall be
forfeited to the village.
(1997 Code, § 111.17)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112:  DISTRESS MERCHANDISE SALES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Application for license
   
112.04   License fee
   
112.05   Bond required
   
112.06   Investigation of application; examiners
   
112.07   License issuance and conditions
   
112.08   Revocation of license
   
112.09   License renewal and fee
   
112.10   Exceptions
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRESS MERCHANDISE SALE.  Any offer to sell to the public or sale to the
public of goods, wares or merchandise on the implied or direct representation
that such sale is in anticipation of the termination of a business at its
present location or that such sale is being held other than in the ordinary
course of business. Without limiting the generality of the above, DISTRESS
MERCHANDISE SALE includes any sale advertised either specifically or in
substance to be a fire sale, smoke and damage sale, adjustment sale, creditor’s
sale, trustee’s sale, bankrupt sale, save us from bankruptcy sale, insolvent
sale, insurance salvage sale, mortgage sale, assignee’s sale, adjuster’s sale,
must vacate sale, quitting business sale, receiver’s sale, loss of lease sale,
forced out of business sale or removal sale.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, association, firm or corporation.
(1997 Code, § 112.01)  (Ord. 403, passed 6-6-1961)
§ 112.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall advertise or conduct a distress merchandise sale without
first having obtained a license to do so in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 112.02)  (Ord. 403, passed 6-6-1961)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to conduct a distress merchandise sale shall make
a written application to the Fiscal Officer at least five days prior to the
date on which such sale is to commence, on forms furnished by the Fiscal
Officer and verified by the applicant before a person authorized to administer
oaths. In cases where due to circumstances beyond the control of the applicant,
other than economic reverses, application cannot be made five days prior to
commencement of the sale, the Fiscal Officer shall waive the five days
requirement.
   (B)   Each application shall contain the following information, and such
other information the Fiscal Officer may deem necessary:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner of the goods, wares or
merchandise to be sold;
      (2)   A description of the place where such sale is to be held;
      (3)   The nature of the occupancy of the place where such sale is to be
held, whether by lease or otherwise, and the effective date of termination of
such occupancy;
      (4)   A full and complete statement of the facts regarding the distress
merchandise sale, including the reason why such sale is being conducted, the
manner in which such sale will be conducted, and the commencement and
termination date of such sale; and
      (5)   A complete and detailed inventory of the goods, wares and
merchandise to be offered at such sale as disclosed by applicant’s records or a
statement of both the cost and retail value of the inventory of goods, wares
and merchandise to be offered at such sale based on the physical inventory used
for applicant’s most recent federal income tax return adjusted for sales,
purchases and mark-downs. Adjustments for sales, purchases and mark-downs shall
be shown on a monthly basis to the date of the application. In addition, there
shall be shown as separate items in either form of inventory the retail value
of all goods, wares and merchandise the applicant has on consignment which will
be offered for sale and the cost and retail value of all goods, wares and
merchandise on back order.
   (C)   The filing of an application for a license, the contents of such
application and the issuance of a license shall be confidential information and
no disclosure thereof shall be made except such as may be necessary in the
administration of the provisions of this chapter. However, any disclosure may
be made with the consent of the applicant and the filing of an application and
the issuance of a license shall not be considered confidential after public
notice has been given of the proposed sale. Disclosures made contrary to the
provisions of this section shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
112.99.
(1997 Code, § 112.03)  (Ord. 403, passed 6-6-1961)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for a license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be $25 or 0.25%
of the cost inventory value of the goods, wares and merchandise to be sold, at
such sale, whichever is the greatest amount.
(1997 Code, § 112.04)  (Ord. 403, passed 6-6-1961)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05  BOND REQUIRED.
   No license shall be issued for a distress merchandise sale unless there is
filed with the Fiscal Officer a bond conditioned upon the faithful observance
of all the provisions of this chapter and the indemnifying of any purchaser at
such sale who suffers any loss by reason of any misrepresentation made in
connection with such sale, and authorizing actions thereunder by the village
for the violation of any provision of this chapter, and by any purchaser at
such sale for damage or loss suffered by him or her by reason of any
misrepresentation made in connection with such sale. The amount of the bond
shall be determined as follows: 10% of the first $100,000 of the inventory cost
of all the goods, wares and merchandise to be offered at sale; 5% on the next
$400,000 and 2% on the balance. The bond shall be approved as to form by the
Solicitor and as to sufficiency by the Fiscal Officer.
(1997 Code, § 112.05)  (Ord. 403, passed 6-6-1961)
§ 112.06  INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION; EXAMINERS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of any application, the Fiscal Officer shall cause such
investigation as is deemed necessary to be made of the facts contained therein.
No license shall be issued if any one or more of the following facts or
circumstances are found to exist:
      (1)   That the applicant was granted more than one license hereunder for
a going-out-of-business sale within two years preceding the date of the filing
of the application;
      (2)   That the applicant has heretofore been convicted of violation of
this chapter or has had a license issued to him or her pursuant to this chapter
revoked within a five-year period immediately preceding the date of the filing
of the application;
      (3)   That the inventory includes goods, wares or merchandise purchased
by the applicant or added to his or her stock in contemplation of such sale and
for the purpose of selling the same at such sale. For the purpose of this
division (A), any unusual addition to the stock of such goods, wares and
merchandise made within 60 days prior to the filing of such application shall
be prima facie evidence that such addition was made in contemplation of such
sale and for the purpose of selling the same at such sale;
      (4)   That applicant in the ticketing of the goods, wares and merchandise
to be offered has misrepresented the original retail price or value thereof;
and
      (5)   That any representation made in the application is false.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, from time to time, enter into contracts
with competent, qualified persons for the examination of the inventories and
records of applicants for licenses. Such persons shall work under the direction
and control of the Fiscal Officer and shall make such examination of records
and inventories as are specified by the Fiscal Officer and authorized by this
chapter. All information obtained by such persons or any village employed
officials through applications or examinations made pursuant to this chapter
shall be confidential, any disclosure thereof, except where such disclosure is
necessary in the administration of the provisions of this chapter shall
constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
112.99.
(1997 Code, § 112.06)  (Ord. 403, passed 6-6-1961)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07  LICENSE ISSUANCE AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   When it appears to the Fiscal Officer that all the statements in the
application are true and that the proposed sale is of the character represented
therein, that the application is in full compliance with the terms and
conditions of this chapter, and that the required license fee has been paid and
the required bond filed, the Fiscal Officer shall issue a license to the
applicant authorizing the applicant to advertise and conduct the sale as
described in the application, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The sale shall be held at the place named in the application and by
the particular licensee for a period of not more than 30 consecutive calendar
days, Sundays and legal holidays excluded, next following the date specified in
the license;
      (2)   Only the goods, wares and merchandise included in the inventory
attached to the application shall be sold at such sale;
      (3)   Upon the commencement of the sale and for its duration, the license
issued hereunder shall be prominently displayed in the place of sale by the
licensee;
      (4)   The licensee shall keep suitable books during the sale, at the
location at which such sale is conducted, in which shall be made daily entries
showing:
         (a)   Dollar amount of retail sales;
         (b)   Dollar amount of mark-downs (Without limiting the meaning of the
term mark-down, the difference between retail and wholesale price of goods
wholesaled by the licensee shall be considered a mark-down.);
         (c)   Dollar amount, both retail and cost price, of goods on back
order received; and
         (d)   Dollar amount of wholesale sales.
   (B)   Copies of such daily entries shall be sent to the Fiscal Officer
weekly and all books of the licensee shall be open for inspection by the Fiscal
Officer or his or her duly authorized representatives during business hours.
(1997 Code, § 112.07)  (Ord. 403, passed 6-6-1961)
§ 112.08  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Fiscal Officer shall revoke any license issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter if he or she shall find that the licensee has:
   (A)   Violated the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Made any material misstatement in his or her application;
   (C)   Failed to include in the inventory required by the provisions of this
chapter all the goods, wares and merchandise being offered for sale;
   (D)   Offered or permitted to be offered at such sale any goods, wares or
merchandise not included in the inventory attached to the application;
   (E)   Failed to keep suitable records of such sale; or
   (F)   Made or permitted to be made any false or misleading statements or
representations in advertising such sale, or in displaying, ticketing or
pricing goods, wares or merchandise offered for sale.
(1997 Code, § 112.08)  (Ord. 403, passed 6-6-1961)
§ 112.09  LICENSE RENEWAL AND FEE.
   The Fiscal Officer shall, upon application therefor, renew a license issued
under the provisions of this chapter for one or more periods of 30 days each,
Sundays and legal holidays excluded, if the licensee has not sold all the goods
listed on the inventory submitted with the original application. Such fact
shall be sworn to by the applicant in the appropriate place on the application
for renewal of the license. Only such goods as were listed on the original
inventory filed with the application and not previously sold may be sold during
the renewal period. The fee for the renewal of the license shall be $10.
(1997 Code, § 112.09)  (Ord. 403, passed 6-6-1961)
§ 112.10  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any sale conducted by a
public officer as part of his or her official duties or to any sale, an
accounting of which must be made to a court of law, or to a sale conducted
pursuant to an order of a court of law.
(1997 Code, § 112.10)  (Ord. 403, passed 6-6-1961)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
130.99. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 112.99)
CHAPTER 113:  ITINERANT VENDORS AND SOLICITORS
Section
Itinerant Vendors
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   License fee and term
Peddlers and Solicitors
   
113.15   Unsolicited sales prohibited
   
113.16   Permit required
   
113.17   Suspension of permit
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Charitable organizations, see R.C. Chapter 1716
   Frozen desserts, see R.C. §§ 3717.51 et seq.
   Home solicitation sales, see R.C. §§ 1345.21 et seq.
   Power to inspect food products, see R.C. § 715.46
   Power to regulate, see R.C. §§ 715.61 et seq.
   Power to regulate itinerant vendors, see R.C. § 715.64
ITINERANT VENDORS
§ 113.01  DEFINITION.
   The term ITINERANT VENDOR when used in this chapter includes any person,
natural or artificial, who engages in or conducts a temporary or transient
business of selling goods, wares and merchandise within the village with the
intention of continuing in such business in any one location for a period of
not more than four months and who for the purpose of carrying on such business
hires, leases or occupies in whole or in part any room, building or structure
for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise. The term does
not apply to hawkers or peddlers; to vendors engaged in the sale of food or
food products for human consumption; to commercial travelers or selling agents
when making sales in the usual course of business; or to salesmen who sell by
sample for future delivery.
(1997 Code, § 113.01)
§ 113.02  LICENSE FEE AND TERM.
   Every itinerant vendor shall obtain a license before engaging in business,
and shall pay therefor a fee of $7 for each day such business is carried on.
The license shall terminate automatically with the last day for which a fee has
been paid.
(1997 Code, § 113.02)  Penalty, see §
113.99
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 113.15  UNSOLICITED SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The practice of going in and upon private residences in the village by
solicitors, peddlers, itinerant merchants or transient venders of merchandise
not having been requested or invited to do so by the owner or occupant of said
private residence for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods,
wares, services and merchandise and for disposing of and/or peddling the same
is declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   This subchapter is intended to regulate only commercial practices and
the solicitation of funds within the village for the activities set forth in
division (A) of this section. Solicitation for purposes other than for the sale
of merchandise or taking of orders for merchandise is not regulated by this
subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 113.15)  (Ord. 592-77, passed 8-8-1977; Ord. 1031-04, passed 5-3-
2004)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.16  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Such authorized soliciting organization as provided for in §
113.15 shall not commence solicitation until application is made to the
village, at least 30 days in advance of any proposed solicitation, for the
issuance of a permit by the Mayor. The application shall indicate thereon the
names of the local representative, or the chief administrative officer or his
or her duly appointed representative of such soliciting organization, the dates
of the solicitation period and such other information as required by the Mayor.
No permit fee shall be charged.
(1997 Code, § 113.16)  (Ord. 592-77, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 113.17  SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued hereunder may be revoked or suspended at any time should
the person or organization to whom it is issued be guilty of any fraud,
misrepresentation, deception or wrongful act in connection with such authorized
solicitation.
(1997 Code, § 113.17)  (Ord. 592-77, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §
113.02 shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates §§
113.15 through
113.17 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a first offense. A subsequent
violation of §§
113.15 through
113.17 within one year shall be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree punishable
by a fine of not more than $250 and incarceration for not more than 30 days or
both.
      (2)   Each person or residence solicited shall constitute a separate
offense or violation.
(1997 Code, § 113.99)  (Ord. 1031-04, passed 5-3-2004)
CHAPTER 114:  TAXICABS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Vehicle license required; interchangeability of license
   
114.03   License fee and term; posting certificate
   
114.04   License application, Council hearing and renewal
   
114.05   License revocation or suspension
   
114.06   Liability insurance or bond
   
114.07   Limitations on use of public vehicles
   
114.08   Unengaged driver refusal to provide service
   
114.09   Identification, painting and lettering of taxicabs
   
114.10   Articles left in vehicle
   
114.11   Employment of unlicensed drivers
   
114.12   Vehicles from outside the village
   
114.13   Failure to pay fare
   
114.14   Vehicle equipment
   
114.15   Vehicle inspection and certificate
   
114.16   Vehicle use for immoral purposes
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Operation by minor prohibited, see R.C. § 4507.321
   Power to establish stands and fix rates, see R.C. § 715.25
   Power to regulate, see R.C. §§ 715.22, 715.66
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER OF A PUBLIC VEHICLE.  The person who has good title by lawful
certificate and who in the conduct of his or her business operates or causes
such public vehicle to be operated by a duly qualified and authorized agent.
   PERSON.  Includes firm, owner, partnership or corporation.
   PUBLIC VEHICLE.  Vehicles furnishing individual service for compensation in
the transportation of persons on the public streets, and which shall be
classified as taxicabs. Other vehicles furnishing mass service such as motor
buses operating over a fixed route and on a fixed schedule are not included
herein.
   TAXICAB.  Any public vehicle whose owner or driver secures or accepts
passengers for hire on the public streets or on public or quasi-public places.
(1997 Code, § 114.01)  (Ord. 308, passed 4-5-1949)
§ 114.02  VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED; INTERCHANGEABILITY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No person or any agent, employee or driver shall operate or permit to
be operated a vehicle as a public vehicle, or proffer the service of such
vehicle by solicitation by voice, sign, public advertisement or otherwise,
unless the proper license has been issued to the owner thereof and is in force.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to the effect that a duly issued
taxicab license shall not be used on another vehicle, provided however that
such other vehicle is a suitable and proper conveyance for the transportation
of passengers and has been approved as provided in this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 114.02)  (Ord. 308, passed 4-5-1949)
§ 114.03  LICENSE FEE AND TERM; POSTING CERTIFICATE.
   Every license shall be issued for only a period of one year and the date of
expiration shall be at 12:00 midnight on December 31. No license shall be
issued for a fractional part of any year. License fees for public vehicles
shall be payable to the Village Fiscal Officer in the amount of $50 for the
first vehicle for one year and $10 for each additional vehicle for the same
period. Upon payment thereof the Fiscal Officer shall issue a receipt showing
the amount paid, from whom received and the date of expiration of the license.
The Fiscal Officer shall also issue a certificate for each license which shall
be displayed conspicuously within the vehicle so operated as a public vehicle.
(1997 Code, § 114.03)  (Ord. 530, passed 12-18-1972)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04  LICENSE APPLICATION, COUNCIL HEARING AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Applications for licenses for public vehicles shall be made in writing
to Council and shall set forth the name and address of the applicant, the trade
name if any under which he or she does business, the seating capacity of the
vehicles for which application is made, make, any length of time vehicle has
been in service either in public or private use, and any other information that
Council considers pertinent to the issuance of a license.
   (B)   Council shall investigate and hold a hearing as to each application
for license for a taxicab, and if it is found from such investigation and
hearing that public convenience and necessity justify the operation of the
vehicle for which license is desired, the applicant shall be so notified. If
the applicant is the owner of the vehicle and such vehicle is a safe and fit
conveyance and complies with all of the provisions of this chapter, then the
Fiscal Officer shall be authorized to issue the license desired upon the
payment of the license fee and the presentation of evidence of bond or
insurance required.
   (C)   However, if upon hearing and investigation, the public convenience and
necessity do not justify the operation of the vehicle for which license is
desired, then the applicant shall be notified of such finding forthwith.
   (D)   All taxicab owners hereby licensed or hereafter licensed according to
law, shall, at the completion of the current license period, be entitled to
have such license renewed for a succeeding year without a finding of
convenience and necessity, provided all other requirements and regulations are
complied with.
(1997 Code, § 114.04)  (Ord. 308, passed 4-5-1949)
§ 114.05  LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Whenever any licensee for a period of 30 days fails to make a
reasonable and consistent effort to operate such taxicab, the Council may order
the Fiscal Officer to revoke the license, provided this does not apply to
licenses which already have been suspended in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The holder of a suspended license, or the assignee thereof, may at any
time apply for the right to resume such license provided such applicant agrees
to comply with all provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No new license shall be issued to a licensee while there are
outstanding suspended licenses.
(1997 Code, § 114.05)  (Ord. 308, passed 4-5-1949)
§ 114.06  LIABILITY INSURANCE OR BOND.
   (A)   No license shall be issued or renewed to operate any public vehicle,
and no person shall operate any public vehicle or permit such vehicle to be
operated, unless a policy of liability insurance issued by a responsible
company, approved as to sufficiency by Council and as to legality by the
Solicitor, shall be deposited with the Fiscal Officer. The policy of insurance
shall be of sufficient amount providing indemnity for or protection to the
insured against loss in the amounts to be set and approved by Council, and
agreeing to pay within the limits of amounts any judgment creditor who has
filed suit or notice of claim with Council for accidents occurring during the
license period by reason of the liability of the insured to pay damages to
others for bodily injuries, including death at any time resulting therefrom,
and for damages to or destruction of property sustained during the term of such
policy, by any person other than the insured and employees of the insured, and
resulting from negligent operation, maintenance or use of such licensed public
vehicle.
   (B)   A bond may be given in lieu of an insurance policy under the same
terms and conditions and shall be subject to the same approval as an insurance
policy.
   (C)   The policy of insurance or the bond herein required shall be valid and
effective for the same period for which the license is issued.
   (D)   The policy of liability insurance as required by division (A) hereof
or the bond required by division (B) hereof shall contain the following as
minimum limits for liability coverage:
 
Bodily injury liability               $100,000 each person; $300,000 each
                                      occurrence
Property damage liability             $100,000 each occurrence
Uninsured and under-insured motorists $100,000 each person; $300,000 each
coverage for bodily injury            occurrence
 
   (E)   Each policy of insurance or bond shall contain a clause obligating the
insurer or surety to give to the Fiscal Officer at least ten days notice in
writing before the cancellation, expiration lapse or other termination of such
insurance or bond, or upon the termination of the liability of the insurer or
the expiration of the withdrawal of a surety therefrom, or other termination,
and the license so granted shall be immediately suspended upon the termination
of such insurance or bond, unless a new policy of insurance or bond, approved
as hereinbefore provided, shall be substituted therefor. Failure to give the
notice required shall operate to continue the insurance policy or bond in
effect and to continue to operate for the benefit of persons injured or
damaged.
(1997 Code, § 114.06)  (Ord. 308, passed 4-5-1949; Ord. 750-86, passed 5-19-
1986)
§ 114.07  LIMITATIONS ON USE OF PUBLIC VEHICLES.
   No person or any agent, employee or driver of any public vehicle shall:
   (A)   Operate over any fixed or regular route;
   (B)   When hired, accept other passengers for compensation, or accept
payment for transportation from any other person except by the consent of the
person who hired the taxicab; or
   (C)   Make up parties on public streets or public places or solicit
patronage for a vehicle already hired.
(1997 Code, § 114.07)  (Ord. 308, passed 4-5-1949)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08  UNENGAGED DRIVER REFUSAL TO PROVIDE SERVICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every driver of an unengaged taxicab, upon
request, to transport any orderly person between any two points within the
village at the rate hereinafter provided and at any time of day or night.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the word UNENGAGED means that the
taxicab is in charge of a driver and neither is occupied by or standing at the
direction of a passenger nor responding to a call of a prospective passenger. A
taxicab standing shall be presumed to be unengaged.
   (C)   Should it be shown at any time to the satisfaction of Council, that a
driver has failed to comply with the requirements of this section, Council,
after a hearing, may suspend the license of such driver for 15 days. In case of
two such suspensions within a period of six months, upon the owner continuing
to employ that same driver, then the taxicab license may be revoked.
(1997 Code, § 114.08)  (Ord. 308, passed 4-5-1949)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09  IDENTIFICATION, PAINTING AND LETTERING OF TAXICABS.
   Every person owning or operating a taxicab under license issued by the
village may adopt any trade name, design or color scheme or method of painting
or lettering such taxicabs. Lettering shall include the word “taxicab,” “taxi”
or “cab” and shall be painted together with any trade name chosen on both sides
of each vehicle, so that each vehicle may be identified as a public conveyance.
(1997 Code, § 114.09)  (Ord. 308, passed 4-5-1949)
§ 114.10  ARTICLES LEFT IN VEHICLE.
   Drivers of public vehicles shall promptly deliver to the Police Chief or any
other regularly appointed officer all property of value left in such vehicle by
any passenger.
(1997 Code, § 114.11)  (Ord. 308, passed 4-5-1949)
§ 114.11  EMPLOYMENT OF UNLICENSED DRIVERS.
   No owner of any taxicab shall permit the same to be driven for hire by any
person who is not a properly licensed driver.
(1997 Code, § 114.12)  (Ord. 308, passed 4-5-1949)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.12  VEHICLES FROM OUTSIDE THE VILLAGE.
   A public vehicle having no village taxicab license and with a place of
business of the owner which is not in the village may bring passengers into the
village, but may not pick up any passengers or accept any business within the
corporate limits of the village.
(1997 Code, § 114.13)  (Ord. 530, passed 12-18-1972)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.13  FAILURE TO PAY FARE.
   No person, with intent to defraud the owner or driver of any public vehicle,
shall engage carriage therein. Refusal to pay the lawful charge for such
carriage or absconding without payment or offer to pay shall be evidence of
such intent to defraud.
(1997 Code, § 114.14)  (Ord. 308, passed 4-5-1949)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.14  VEHICLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every public vehicle shall be kept in a safe and sanitary operating
condition and shall at all times have the following equipment:
      (1)   A spare tire capable of being used on any of the wheels of the
vehicle;
      (2)   A set of tools for changing tires; and
      (3)   Brakes sufficient to control the vehicle at all times in compliance
with the requirements of §
74.23 of the Traffic Code.
   (B)   Whenever a public vehicle is found which is not in a safe and sanitary
condition or not to fully comply with all of the requirements specified herein,
Council may order the license thereof suspended until such provisions are
complied with.
(1997 Code, § 114.15)  (Ord. 308, passed 4-5-1949)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.15  VEHICLE INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Before the issuance of any taxicab license, the applicant shall
present to the Fiscal Officer a satisfactory certificate of mechanical fitness
for the vehicle desired to be licensed, which certificate shall be certified by
the mechanic making the inspection. The inspection shall be made and a
certificate issued and presented every six months thereafter.
   (B)   The person making such inspection shall not be the owner or an
employee of the applicant or licensee and the inspection shall include the
following:
      (1)   Foot brake;
      (2)   Emergency brake;
      (3)   Headlights, both beams;
      (4)   Parking lights;
      (5)   Stop and tail lights;
      (6)   Horn;
      (7)   Steering mechanism;
      (8)   Windshield wipers;
      (9)   Rear vision mirror;
      (10)   Tires; and
      (11)   Visibility.
   (C)   The inspection certificate shall show the dates of inspection and
expiration, and shall be filed with the Fiscal Officer.
(1997 Code, § 114.16)  (Ord. 308, passed 4-5-1949)
§ 114.16  VEHICLE USE FOR IMMORAL PURPOSES.
   (A)   No person shall use any public vehicle for any immoral or unlawful
purpose. Conviction for violation hereof is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (B)   If the owner or agent of any public vehicle commits any act of
illegal, unlawful or immoral nature, which act affects the public peace,
property, safety and dignity of the village, Council may, after a hearing and
presentation of evidence, revoke the license forthwith. Ten days’ written
notice of the time and place of hearing shall be given to the licensed owner of
record.
(1997 Code, § 114.17)  (Ord. 530, passed 12-18-1972)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter where another penalty is not
otherwise provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as
provided in §
130.99 of the General Offenses Code. In the event of conviction, such person
shall not thereafter be granted a license for the vehicle concerned for six
months from the first conviction and one year for a subsequent conviction.
(1997 Code, § 114.99)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   SEX OFFENSES
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
      
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
      
139.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rules of construction
   
130.06   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Organizational criminal liability
   
130.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
130.11   Attempt
   
130.12   Complicity
   
130.13   Presumption of innocence; proof of offense; affirmative defense
   
130.14   Battered woman syndrome
   
130.15   Delinquency adjudications deemed convictions
   
130.16   Criminal law jurisdiction
   
130.17   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
   
130.18   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.19   Multiple sentences
   
130.20   Apprehension, detention or arrest of persons on bond
   
130.21   Self defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
 
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
Statutory reference:
   Mayor’s court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1905
   Municipal court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1901
   Trials, Magistrate courts, see R.C. Chapter 2938
§ 130.01  APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the municipality not classifiable in previous
titles and chapters. The word “misdemeanors,” as used in this title, is not
exhaustive and does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of
ordinances are not also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a fine, imprisonment or both is
provided under this Title or elsewhere in this code, or each act or omission
which is declared a violation of this code, is unlawful and is hereby made a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be
imposed by the court.
§ 130.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND.  Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully determines
to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in an offense.
The term includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia; and
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER.  A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE.  Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE.  Any violence, compulsion or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, Marshal, Deputy Marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper;
      (2)   An officer, agent or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority;
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality;
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission;
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a Sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called;
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.01 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed;
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence;
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer or municipal prosecutor;
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02;
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y);
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28;
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms;
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms; and
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. Parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY.  A person is NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF
INSANITY relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01, 2905.02,
2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03, 2909.24,
2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31, 2919.25,
2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34 or 2923.161, division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of
R.C. § 2911.12, or of division (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. §
2919.22, or felonious sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons; or
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, the term includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association; and
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, the term includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, UNBORN HUMAN
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. VIABLE means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term PERSON that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section,
as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division (2)(a) if it is of the
type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant woman, even
if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human; and
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS.  Any injury, illness or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY.  Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. The term does not include wear and tear occasioned by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE.  An immunity, license or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. The term includes but is not limited to
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ASSOCIATED WITH
COMPUTERS include but are not limited to checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service,” “computer,” “computer network,”
“computer software,” “computer system,” “data” and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense; or
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK.  A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY.  Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the State
Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUILDING.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL BUS.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL PREMISES.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE.  Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement; or
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY.  Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort or money to repair or replace; or
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK.  A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E))
§ 130.03  CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this Title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors and offenses not specifically classified;
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor;
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty; and
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100; and
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D) or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02)
§ 130.04  COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03)
§ 130.05  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Ohio Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code shall be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of
guilty to a substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of
this municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an
existing or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or to
an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or ordinance
that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a substantially
equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04)
§ 130.06  LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall be barred unless
it is commenced within the following periods after an offense is committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years; and
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (H) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23,
2909.24, 2909.26, 2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12
or 2917.02, a violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace
officer, a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of
former R.C. § 2907.12; and
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter; and
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division (B):
         OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A PUBLIC
SERVANT.  The phrase includes but is not limited to a violation of R.C. §
101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A) or
(B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2).
         PUBLIC SERVANT.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (E)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation or other process unless reasonable diligence is
exercised to execute the same.
   (F)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information or process that commenced the prosecution is
quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information or process are set
aside or reversed on appeal.
   (I)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Title XIII or Title
XXIX of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a mentally retarded, developmentally
disabled or physically impaired child under 21 years of age shall not begin to
run until either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority; or
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected or believed to have
occurred.
   (J)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
(R.C. § 2901.13)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07  REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing; and
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the section defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the section defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. When the section neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, recklessness is sufficient culpability to commit the offense.
   (C)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY.  Means purpose, knowledge, recklessness or negligence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION.  Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Means reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION.  Means a voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21)
§ 130.08  CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is his or her specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is his or her specific intention to engage in conduct of
that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of his or her purpose, when he or
she is aware that his or her conduct will probably cause a certain result or
will probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances
when he or she is aware that such circumstances probably exist.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, he or she perversely disregards a known risk that his or her
conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of a certain
nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with heedless
indifference to the consequences, he or she perversely disregards a known risk
that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, he or she fails to perceive or avoid a risk that his or her conduct
may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is negligent
with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse from due
care, he or she fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such circumstances may
exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22)
§ 130.09  ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply;
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply;
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization; or
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners or by a
high managerial officer, agent or employee acting in behalf of the organization
and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust, or other commercial or
legal entity. The term does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23)
§ 130.10  PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C. §
2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if he
or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility; or
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24)
§ 130.11  ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit
an offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to division (E)
(1) of this section for an attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in
violation of division (A) of this section, if the offender used a motor vehicle
as the means to attempt to commit the offense, the court shall impose upon the
offender a class two suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or
nonresident operating privilege as specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(2).
      (3)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to attempted rape and
also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described
in R.C. § 2941.1418, 2941.1419 or 2941.1420, the offender shall be sentenced to
a prison term or term of life imprisonment pursuant to R.C. § 2971.03.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
   Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.12  COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01; or
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
§ 130.13  PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE; PROOF OF OFFENSE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   Every person accused of an offense is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof for all elements of
the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going forward with the
evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence, for an affirmative defense, is upon the accused.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, a person is presumed
to have acted in self defense or defense of another when using defensive force
that is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if
the person against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of
unlawfully and without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the
person using the defensive force.
      (2)   (a)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(1) of this section
does not apply if the person against whom the defensive force is used has a
right to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle.
         (b)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(1) of this section
does not apply if the person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(1) of this section is a
rebuttable presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence.
   (C)   As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal case, the court shall
read the definitions of reasonable doubt and proof beyond a reasonable doubt,
contained in division (D) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.  An affirmative defense is either of the following:
         (a)   A defense expressly designated as affirmative; or
         (b)   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      DWELLING.  Means a building or conveyance of any kind that has a roof
over it and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the building
or conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or conveyance is
temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this definition, a
building or conveyance includes but is not limited to an attached porch, and a
building or conveyance with a roof over it includes but is not limited to a
tent.
      PROOF BEYOND A REASONABLE DOUBT.  Proof of such character that an
ordinary person would be willing to rely and act upon it in the most important
of the person’s own affairs.
      REASONABLE DOUBT.  Reasonable doubt is present when the jurors, after
they have carefully considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they
are firmly convinced of the truth of the charge. It is a doubt based on
reasonable and common sense. The term is not mere possible doubt, because
everything relating to human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to
some possible or imaginary doubt.
      RESIDENCE.  Means a dwelling in which a person resides either temporarily
or permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      VEHICLE.  Means a conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized, that
is designed to transport people or property.
(R.C. § 2901.05)
§ 130.14  BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME.
   (A)   The municipality hereby declares that it recognizes both of the
following, in relation to the battered woman syndrome: that the syndrome
currently is a matter of commonly accepted scientific knowledge; and that the
subject matter and details of the syndrome are not within the general
understanding or experience of a person who is a member of the general populace
and are not within the field of common knowledge.
   (B)   If a person is charged with an offense involving the use of force
against another and the person, as a defense to the offense charged, raises the
affirmative defense of self defense, the person may introduce expert testimony
of the battered woman syndrome and expert testimony that the person suffered
from that syndrome as evidence to establish the requisite belief of an imminent
danger of death or great bodily harm that is necessary, as an element of the
affirmative defense, to justify the person’s use of force in question. The
introduction of any expert testimony under this division (B) shall be in
accordance with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(R.C. § 2901.06)
§ 130.15  DELINQUENCY ADJUDICATIONS DEEMED CONVICTIONS.
   (A)   If a person is alleged to have committed an offense and if the person
previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender
for a violation of a law or ordinance, except as provided in division (B) of
this section, the adjudication as a delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic
offender is a conviction for a violation of the law for purposes of determining
the offense with which the person should be charged and, if the person is
convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon
the person relative to the conviction or guilty plea.
   (B)   A previous adjudication of a person as a delinquent child or juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of a law or ordinance is not a conviction for
a violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining whether the
person is a repeat violent offender, as defined in R.C. § 2929.01, or whether
the person should be sentenced as a repeat violent offender under R.C. §
2929.14(B)(2) and R.C. § 2941.149.
(R.C. § 2901.08)
§ 130.16  CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division (A), the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for the attempt, complicity or conspiracy, and for any
resulting offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality; or
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (B)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (A)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (C)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (D)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (E)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (F)   Any act, conduct or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (H)   For purposes of division (A)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (I)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11)
Statutory reference:
   State criminal law jurisdiction, see R.C. § 2901.11
§ 130.17  DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109; or
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (B)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any monies acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include but not be limited to both of the following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property; and
               b.   The general types of expenditures made with amounts that
are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by the agency,
including the specific amount expended on each general type of expenditure,
except that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of
any specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
Law Enforcement Trust Fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or R.C. §§ 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.  Includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.  Means an organized Police Department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district or the
office of a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows.
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or R.C. § 4301.53
shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that
it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit
in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to
law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol, any
monies acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (B)(1)(d) shall be paid into the state
treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol that the Division determines
to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the Inmates’ Industrial and Entertainment
Fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) of this section.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21 or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) of this section or division (A)(1)(b) of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) of this section when applicable, any
monies acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the General Revenue Fund of the state, or the General Fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction treatment services providers that
are certified by the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services under
R.C. § 5119.36. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no certified services
provider is located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a
certified services provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds
or cash shall be applied as provided in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any monies acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21 or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21 or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B) shall
be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. § 5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds or instrumentalities.  Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used or sold pursuant to division (B) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12. If
the property is to be sold under division (B) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.18  IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C. §
1547.99(G), 4510.14(B) or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §
130.99 or 133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that
imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the
offender any sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability or other factor made
the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of the
offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses; and
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F) and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future crime.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral or written
statement made by the victim, the defendant, the defense attorney or the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division (D)
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22)
§ 130.19  MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2929.14(C),
or R.C. § 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term or sentence of
imprisonment shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail term
or sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, this
state, another state or the United States. Except as provided in division (B)
(2) of this section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
shall be served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for
felony served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (B)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division (B), the term to be served is the aggregate of
the consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served
shall not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21 or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.06,
2903.07, 2903.08 or 4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving
the operation of a motor vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state
correctional institution when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively. When consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and
prison terms are imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies
under this division (B), the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a
felony before serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41)
§ 130.20  APPREHENSION, DETENTION OR ARREST OF PERSONS ON BOND.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer, shall apprehend,
detain or arrest a principal on bond, wherever issued, unless that person meets
all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The person is any of the following:
         (a)   Qualified, licensed and appointed as a surety bail bond agent
under R.C. §§ 3905.83 through 3905.95;
         (b)   Licensed as a surety bail bond agent by the state where the bond
was written;
         (c)   Licensed as a private investigator under R.C. Chapter 4749;
         (d)   Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written; or
         (e)   An off-duty peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2921.51.
      (2)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining or arresting the
principal, has entered into a written contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent appointed by the surety, which contract sets
forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended, detained or arrested.
For purposes of this division (A)(2), SURETY has the same meaning as in R.C. §
3905.83.
      (3)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining or arresting the
principal, has notified the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
over the area in which such activities will be performed and has provided any
form or identification or other information requested by the law enforcement
agency.
   (B)   No person shall represent the person’s self to be a bail enforcement
agent or bounty hunter, or claim any similar title, in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal bail bond agent
practices.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (A) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.27)
§ 130.21  SELF DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE and VEHICLE have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person who lawfully is in that person’s residence has no duty to
retreat before using force in self defense, defense of another or defense of
that person’s residence, and a person who lawfully is an occupant of that
person’s vehicle or who lawfully is an occupant in a vehicle owned by an
immediate family member of the person has no duty to retreat before using force
in self defense or defense of another.
(R.C. § 2901.09)
§ 130.99  PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Generally.  Except where otherwise specifically classified within the
body of the section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $500, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender or
religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
 
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
130.18 or 133.99 of this code or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5)
or (C)(6) of this section and unless another term is required or authorized
pursuant to law, if the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender
for a misdemeanor elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender
pursuant to this chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that
shall be one of the following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days; or
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56 or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section; and
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the Clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(B), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, also
is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a specification of the type described
in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court imposes a jail term on the offender for
the underlying offense, the court shall impose upon the offender an additional
definite jail term of not more than six months. The additional jail term shall
not be reduced pursuant to any provision of the Ohio Revised Code. The offender
shall serve the additional jail term consecutively to and prior to the jail
term imposed for the underlying offense and consecutively to any other
mandatory term imposed in relation to the offense.
      (6)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241 or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(6)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days; and
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241 or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(6)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(6)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division (C) shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided
that the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the
jail term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241 or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division (C) shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) or
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division (C), except to the extent that they would
by their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division (C), including the cost
of the use of the monitoring device.
      (7)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (8)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§
130.18 and
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F) or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term; or
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F) or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F) or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions; or
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F) or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender and ensuring the
offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on the
offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also shall
be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F) or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   If an offender violates any condition of a community control
sanction, the sentencing court may impose upon the violator one or more of the
following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction; and
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), if an offender,
for a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community
control sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F) or (G) of this section
in an exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the
community control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control
sanction. Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not
relieve the offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders; and
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term of up to 60 days in a community alternative sentencing center
or district community alternative sentencing center established and operated in
accordance with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section,
with one of the conditions of the sanction being that the offender complete in
the center the entire term imposed.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(c) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family; or
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division (E) shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, including
but not limited to hepatitis A, B and C, and other contagious diseases. The
person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction may cause a
convicted offender in the halfway house, community alternative sentencing
center, district community alternative sentencing center or other place who
refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including but not limited to hepatitis A, B and C, or another contagious
disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division (F). Nonresidential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction; and
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division (F)
does not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for
any offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division (F).
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the General Fund of the county,
municipality or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the Clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
General Fund of the county, municipality or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the Clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
General Fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate General Fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G). If the court in its
discretion imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this section include but are not limited to the
following.
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense is a minor misdemeanor or could
be disposed of by the Traffic Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13, restitution by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or
any survivor of the victim, in an amount based upon the victim’s economic loss.
The court may not impose restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division
(G) if the offense is a minor misdemeanor or could be disposed of by the
Traffic Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13. If the court
requires restitution, the court shall order that the restitution be made to the
victim in open court or to the adult probation department that serves the
jurisdiction or the Clerk of the court on behalf of the victim.
            2.   If the court imposes restitution, the court shall determine
the amount of restitution to be paid by the offender. If the court imposes
restitution, the court may base the amount of restitution it orders on an
amount recommended by the victim, the offender, a presentence investigation
report, estimates or receipts indicating the cost of repairing or replacing
property, and other information, provided that the amount the court orders as
restitution shall not exceed the amount of economic loss suffered by the victim
as a direct and proximate result of the commission of the offense. If the court
decides to impose restitution, the court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on
restitution if the offender, victim or survivor disputes the amount of
restitution. If the court holds an evidentiary hearing, at the hearing the
victim or survivor has the burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence
the amount of restitution sought from the offender.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or any
survivor of the victim against the offender. No person may introduce evidence
of an award of restitution under this section in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   If the court imposes restitution, the court may order that the
offender pay a surcharge, of not more than 5% of the amount of the restitution
otherwise ordered, to the entity responsible for collecting and processing
restitution payments.
            5.   The victim or survivor of the victim may request that the
prosecutor in the case file a motion, or the offender may file a motion, for
modification of the payment terms of any restitution ordered. If the court
grants the motion, it may modify the payment terms as it determines
appropriate.
         (b)   Fines.  A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1.
and (G)(1)(b)2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required
by law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
or
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including but not limited to the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including but not limited to a per diem fee for room and
board, the costs of medical and dental treatment and the costs of repairing
property damaged by the offender while confined; and
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F)
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s General Fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F) or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F)
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the
treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s General Fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F) or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F) or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(4), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(4)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(4)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(4)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division (G), the victim, private provider, state or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the Clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same manner and form as
a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; or
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(4) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (6)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the Clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The Clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 through 307.92;
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just, except that the
maximum time permitted for payment shall not exceed five years. If the court is
a county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the Clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender; and
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (7)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000; and
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators; registration,
see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C.
§ 2935.26
   Crime Victim’s Reparations Fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
   Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter
2950
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Arson; determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.03   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.04   Criminal mischief
   
131.05   Damaging or endangering aircraft or airport operations
   
131.06   Criminal trespass; aggravated trespass
   
131.07   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.08   Theft
   
131.09   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.10   Unauthorized use of property, including telecommunication property and
computers; possession of municipal property
   
131.11   Passing bad checks
   
131.12   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.13   Making or using slugs
   
131.14   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
   
131.15   Tampering with records
   
131.16   Securing writings by deception
   
131.17   Defrauding creditors
   
131.18   Receiving stolen property
   
131.19   Value of stolen property
   
131.20   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.21   Injuring vines, bushes, trees or crops
   
131.22   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.23   Insurance fraud; workers’ compensation fraud; medicaid fraud
   
131.24   Injury to property by hunters
   
131.25   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services; evidence of lack of capacity to consent
   
131.26   Forgery of identification cards
   
131.27   Criminal simulation
   
131.28   Personating an officer
   
131.29   Trademark counterfeiting
   
131.30   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
   
131.31   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
   
131.32   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
   
131.33   Motion picture piracy
   
131.34   Littering and deposit of garbage
   
131.35   Possession of village property
Cross-reference:
   Animals, offenses against, see §§
90.20 through
90.41
Statutory reference:
   Cable television service devices, unauthorized sale or possession, felony,
see R.C. § 2913.041
   Deceptive acts or practices in connection with consumer transactions, see
O.A.C. Chapter 109:4-3
   Disrupting public services, felony, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Email advertisements, civil offenses and felony forgery offense, see R.C. §
2307.64
   Email spam, civil offenses and felony offenses, see R.C. § 2913.421
   Food stamps, illegal use, see R.C. § 2913.46
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
   Terrorism involving agricultural products or equipment, see R.C. § 901.511
§ 131.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA.  A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. ANHYDROUS
AMMONIA is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is 14 parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is approximately
82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE.  Any services provided by or through the
facilities of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission
service used in connection with any cable television system or other similar
closed circuit coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE.  Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of
the following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose; and
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service or grant a license.
   COMPUTER.  An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. The term
includes but is not limited to all input, output, processing, storage, computer
program or communication facilities that are connected, or related, in a
computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT.  Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record or transmit information within a computer,
computer system or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record or transmit data or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks; and
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors,” “back
doors” or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   The term means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system or computer network or other person authorized to give consent.
As used in this definition, MISUSE OF COMPUTER AND NETWORK SERVICES includes
but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems or computer networks; and
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division (1)(c)1. includes but is not limited to
those computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer,
computer system or another computer network to determine any of the following:
the presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the
computer network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or
network services; the presence or versions of computer software including but
not limited to operating systems, computer services or computer contaminants;
the presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management and test of a computer,
computer system or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping,” “tcpdump” and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system or a computer
network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by the owner
of the computer, computer system or computer network or other person authorized
to give consent.
      (2)   The term does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK.  A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM.  An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES.  Includes but is not limited to the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE.  Computer programs, procedures and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM.  A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including but not limited to data input, output and storage
devices, data communications links and computer programs and data that make the
system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.  A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON.  Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD.  Includes but is not limited to a card, code, device or other
means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   DATA.  A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system or computer network.
   DECEPTION.  To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind or other objective
or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD.  To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE.  To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it; or
      (3)   To accept, use or appropriate money, property or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT.  A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON.  A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER.  Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL.  Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a Fire Department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)   A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal or an
Assistant State Fire Marshal; or
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE.  To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS.  To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   The term does not include any use of a capability of a type
described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control or
operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE.  Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent or other structure, vehicle or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present; or
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER.  Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY.  Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES.  Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. § 2913.04
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable services as
defined in that section.
   SLUG.  An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill or token made for that purpose.
   STATE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION.  The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.  Any instrument, equipment, machine or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.  The providing, allowing, facilitating or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. § 2913.51,
2915.05 or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit or fraud; or
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER.  To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver or display.
   WRITING.  Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film or other thing having in or upon it any written, typewritten
or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge, trademark,
label or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license or identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01)
§ 131.02  ARSON; DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   Arson.
      (1)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly cause or
create a substantial risk of physical harm to any property of another without
the other person’s consent.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson. Except as
otherwise provided in this division (A)(2), violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or the amount of
physical harm involved is $1,000 or more, then the violation is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03)
   (B)   Determining property value or amount of physical harm.
      (1)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of division (A).
         (a)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item,
antique, museum piece, manuscript, document, record or other thing that is
either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial
time, effort or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical harm
involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
         (b)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
         (c)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
      (2)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2913.61.
      (3)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C.
§ 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D))
Cross-reference:
   Negligent burning, see §
92.48
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2909.02
   Arson, felony provisions generally, see R.C. § 2909.03
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.71
§ 131.03  CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
         (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         ALLEY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         HIGHWAY.  Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge or overpass.
         STREET.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VESSEL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1547.01.
         WATERS IN THIS STATE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1547.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway; or
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Railroad grade crossing device vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.101
   Railroad vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.10
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.04  CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with the property of another;
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation station,
boundary marker or other survey station, monument or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of another,
or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety of
others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for its
intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure or personal property that
is on that land; and
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy or modify a computer, computer system,
computer network, computer software or computer program or data contained in a
computer, computer system, computer network, computer software or computer
program; and
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software or computer program.
   (B)   As used in this section, SAFETY DEVICE means any fire extinguisher,
fire hose or fire axe, or any fire escape, emergency exit or emergency escape
equipment, or any life line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or
raft, or any alarm, light, flare, signal, sign or notice intended to warn of
danger or emergency, or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard
railing or safety barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad
grade crossing sign, signal or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or
any other device, apparatus or equipment intended for protecting or preserving
the safety of persons or property.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief, and
shall be punished as provided in division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), criminal
mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or
(A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division (C), if the violation of division (A)(1),
(A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical
harm to any person, criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)
(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any
other equipment, implement or material used or intended to be used in the
operation of an aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an
aircraft and if the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person,
or if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), criminal
mischief committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system,
computer network, computer software, computer program or data involved in the
violation of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim
resulting from the violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, computer program or data involved
in the violation of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the
operation of an aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to
any person, or if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal
mischief committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07)
§ 131.05  DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT OR AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR GUN.  Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by
means of releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide or other gas.
      AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE.  Means any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is actually
being used for any of those purposes.
      FIREARM.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      SPRING-OPERATED GUN.  Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels a
projectile not less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by
means of a spring.
   (B)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft; or
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun or spring-operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division (C) does not
apply to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties; or
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (C) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E))
§ 131.06  CRIMINAL TRESPASS; AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access; or
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, the court, in
addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE and SNOWMOBILE.  Have
the same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      (2)   LAND or PREMISES.  Includes any land, building, structure or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
(R.C. § 2911.21)
   (G)   Aggravated trespass:
      (1)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of another
with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor, the
elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or causing
another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to him or
her; and
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of aggravated
trespass, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2911.211)
   (H)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement:
      (1)   As used in this division (H), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged;
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (H)(4)(a)
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include but is not limited to a playing field, an
athletic surface or a stage located at the place of public amusement;
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting event
or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This division
(H) does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement;
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division (H)
regarding a portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting
or exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted; or
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (H)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (H)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine or other sentence, penalty or
sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (H)(5)(a) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
§ 131.07  TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32)
§ 131.08  THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat; or
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division (B), a violation of this section is petty theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)    If the property stolen is a special purpose article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (C)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (C)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit or privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension
shall be at least six months; or
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include but is
not limited to the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit or
nonresident operating privilege under division (C) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.09  UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03)
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 131.10  UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY, INCLUDING TELECOMMUNICATION PROPERTY
AND COMPUTERS; POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service or information service or
other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the law enforcement automated database system created pursuant to R.C. §
5503.10 without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or implied
consent of, the chair of the Law Enforcement Automated Data System Steering
Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(F), unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree; and
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR.  Means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system; or
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE.  Means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition; or
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM.  Means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term CABLE SYSTEM as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573; or
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
   (K)   Possession of municipal property:
      (1)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the municipality; and
(R.C. § 5589.12)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (K) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 131.11  PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK.  Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal or similar
negotiable or non-negotiable instrument; or
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check or any form of
automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK.  Means causing any form of debit from a demand deposit
account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later; or
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a
check, bill of exchange or other draft is presumed to have the purpose to
defraud if the drawer fails to comply with R.C. § 1349.16 by doing any of the
following when opening a checking account intended for personal, family or
household purposes at a financial institution:
      (1)   Falsely stating that he or she has not been issued a valid driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card issued under R.C. §
4507.50;
      (2)   Furnishing the license or card, or another identification document
that contains false information; and
      (3)   Making a false statement with respect to the drawer’s current
address or any additional relevant information reasonably required by the
financial institution.
   (E)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (F)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division (F), passing bad checks is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11)
§ 131.12  MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon; or
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law; or
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1) or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(2) or division
(D)(3) of this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail
value of the property and services involved in one or more violations of
division (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this section which violations involve one
or more credit card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days
commencing on the date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of
credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21)
§ 131.13  MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud; or
      (2)   Make, possess or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33)
§ 131.14  PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy or other property or equipment, kept or
operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure; or
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41)
§ 131.15  TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data or record; or
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree; or
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree; or
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42)
§ 131.16  SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), securing writings
by deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property
or the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person or disabled adult, securing writings by deception
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43)
§ 131.17  DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property; or
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45)
§ 131.18  RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), receiving stolen property is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met,
then a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51)
§ 131.19  VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03 or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2) or R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. The value of
the property or services involved in the series of offenses for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property and services involved in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more than one
victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant
to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the
property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48
or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same employment,
capacity or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the
property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48 or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity or relationship to another as described in division (B)(1)
or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that involve
a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or course of
conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section. While it is not
necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in order to
prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to prove
the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the requisite
statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort or money, is the amount which would
compensate the owner for its loss;
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality; and
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
FAIR MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value;
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity;
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry or products;
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument;
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument;
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument;
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping or other services for which the rate is established by
law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services; and
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E))
§ 131.20  DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary license placard or windshield sticker as prescribed by
R.C. § 4503.182 or any comparable license plate, placard or sticker as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07; or
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71)
§ 131.21  INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree or crop
standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
§ 131.22  DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION.  Means any public or private building, structure or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records, manuscripts
or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored to preserve
the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate the
information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available for
public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a particular
interest in, use for or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2913.07.
      FACILITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM.  Means any public or private nonprofit institution that is
permanently organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or
borrows objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the
public the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM.  Means a rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee or agent of a library, museum or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum or archival institution, if the
officer, employee or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum or archival institution
of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or exerted
control over the property without the consent of the owner or person authorized
to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the
owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent or employee of a library, museum or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest; or
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent or employee of the library, museum or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, that the officer has probable cause to
believe has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that
the officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by
R.C. § 2913.07. An arrest under this division (G) shall be made within a
reasonable time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
   Probable cause, see R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.23  INSURANCE FRAUD; WORKERS’ COMPENSATION FRAUD; MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (A)   Insurance fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written
or oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other
benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the
statement, is false or deceptive; or
         (b)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of insurance fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division (A), insurance fraud is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or
deceptive is $1,000 or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not be construed to abrogate, waive or
modify R.C. § 2317.02(A).
      (4)   As used in this division (A):
         DATA.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
         DECEPTIVE.  Means that a statement, in whole or in part, would cause
another to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation,
withholds information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other
conduct, act or omission creates, confirms or perpetuates a false impression,
including but not limited to a false impression as to law, value, state of mind
or other objective or subjective fact.
         INSURER.  Means any person that is authorized to engage in the
business of insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan
Underwriting Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring
corporation, and any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to
its employees or members.
         POLICY.  Means a policy, certificate, contract or plan that is issued
by an insurer.
         STATEMENT.  Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape or movie film; test result;
other evidence of loss, injury or expense; computer-generated document; and
data in any form.
(R.C. § 2913.47)
   (B)   Workers’ compensation fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Receive workers’ compensation benefits to which the person is
not entitled;
         (b)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127 or 4131 or to secure workers’
compensation benefits;
         (c)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any record or
document that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed
with, or necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and
services for which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from
the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under R.C.
Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127 or 4131;
         (d)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation or a self-insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers’ compensation
benefits;
         (e)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false
statement concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
         (f)   Alter, forge or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage; or
         (g)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of workers’
compensation fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), workers’
compensation fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of
premiums and assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (B)
(1)(e), (B)(1)(f) or (B)(1)(g) of this section, or goods, services, property or
money stolen is $1,000 or more, workers’ compensation fraud is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this division (B), the court
shall order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the
governmental body its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These
costs are in addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal,
state or local law.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (B) are not
exclusive remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this
division (B).
      (5)   As used in this division (B):
         CLAIM.  Means any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation, an independent third party with whom the administrator or an
employer contracts under R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make
payment or reimbursement for workers’ compensation benefits.
         EMPLOYEE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYMENT.  Means participating in any trade, occupation, business,
service or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
         FALSE.  Means wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
         GOODS.  Includes but is not limited to medical supplies, appliances,
rehabilitative equipment and any other apparatus or furnishing provided or used
in the care, treatment or rehabilitation of a claimant for workers’
compensation benefits.
         RECORDS.  Means any medical, professional, financial or business
record relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services
provided to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any
person, or any record that the administrator of workers’ compensation requires
pursuant to rule.
         REMUNERATION.  Includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates and any other reward or consideration.
         SELF-INSURING EMPLOYER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         SERVICES.  Includes but is not limited to any service provided by any
health care provider to a claimant for workers’ compensation benefits and any
and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
         STATEMENT.  Includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical or dental
chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
         WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS.  Means any compensation or benefits
payable under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127 or 4131.
(R.C. § 2913.48)
   (C)   Medicaid fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person
is facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement,
charge, solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person
provides under the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration
in addition to the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the
person’s provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing
expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
         (b)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
      (3)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or
services under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a
period of at least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
         (a)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
         (b)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of Medicaid fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), Medicaid fraud is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property, services or
funds obtained in violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division (C) shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt
of that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. § 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
      (7)   As used in this division (C):
         PROVIDER. Means any person who has signed a provider agreement with
the Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the
Medicaid program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such
a provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
         PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         RECIPIENT. Means any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial or business
records relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or
services provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services
provided to any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of
the Medicaid Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
         STATEMENT or REPRESENTATION. Means any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
(R.C. § 2913.40)
   (D)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         (a)   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         (b)   Conceal an interest in property; or
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(c)2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted; or
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (D) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (D) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         (b)   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         (c)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (D) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (D).
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (D) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   As used in this division (D):
         MEDICAID SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         PROPERTY.  Means any real or personal property or other asset in which
a person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401)
§ 131.24  INJURY TO PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 131.25  EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO COMMIT THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY OR RENTAL
SERVICES; EVIDENCE OF LACK OF CAPACITY TO CONSENT.
   (A)   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services.
      (1)   As used in this division (A):
         RENTER.  Means a person who owns rented property.
         RENTEE.  Means a person who pays consideration to a renter for the use
of rented property.
      (2)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services:
         (a)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment or other
relevant information; and
         (b)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
      (3)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (A)(2)(b) above, a renter may issue
a notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
      (4)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a
prerequisite for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or
rental services. The evidence specified in division (A)(2) above does not
constitute the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72)
   (B)   Evidence of lack of capacity to consent.
      (1)   In a prosecution for any alleged violation of §
131.08 through
131.20,
131.23,
131.25 through
131.29 or
132.11, if the lack of consent of the victim is an element of the provision
that allegedly was violated, evidence that, at the time of the alleged
violation, the victim lacked the capacity to give consent is admissible to show
that the victim did not give consent.
      (2)   As used in this section, LACKS THE CAPACITY TO CONSENT means being
impaired for any reason to the extent that the person lacks sufficient
understanding or capacity to make and carry out reasonable decisions concerning
the person or the person’s resources.
(R.C. § 2913.73)
§ 131.26  FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card; or
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (B)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity,” “identification,” “identification card,” or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging identification
cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards. Except as
otherwise provided in this division (C), forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (A) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2))
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A) and (C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see R.C. § 2307.64
§ 131.27  CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess;
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record or recording tape;
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter or counterfeit
any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control
Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently cause to
be made, simulated, forged, altered or counterfeited any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap
prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303;
or
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or
(A)(3) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division (B), criminal simulation is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more,
criminal simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32)
§ 131.28  PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)
Cross-reference:
   Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
132.12
§ 131.29  TRADEMARK COUNTERFEITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Attach, affix or otherwise use a counterfeit mark in connection
with the manufacture of goods or services, whether or not the goods or services
are intended for sale or resale;
      (2)   Possess, sell or offer for sale tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles or other items of personal property with the knowledge that
they are designed for the production or reproduction of counterfeit marks;
      (3)   Purchase or otherwise acquire goods, and keep or otherwise have the
goods in the person’s possession, with the knowledge that a counterfeit mark is
attached to, affixed to or otherwise used in connection with the goods and with
the intent to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods;
      (4)   Sell, offer for sale or otherwise dispose of goods with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is attached to, affixed to or otherwise used
in connection with the goods; or
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale or otherwise provide services with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is used in connection with that sale, offer
for sale or other provision of the services.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of trademark counterfeiting.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
circumstances of the violation indicate that the tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles or other items of personal property involved in the
violation were intended for use in the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (A)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), a violation
of division (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the cumulative sales price of the goods or services to which
or in connection with which the counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or
otherwise used in the offense is $1,000 or more, a violation of division (A)
(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A defendant may assert as an affirmative defense to a charge of a
violation of this section, defenses, affirmative defenses and limitations on
remedies that would be available in a civil, criminal or administrative action
or proceeding under the Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as
amended, the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as
amended, R.C. Chapter 1329 or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
common law.
   (D)   (1)   Law enforcement officers may seize pursuant to Criminal Rule 41,
R.C. Chapter 2933 or R.C. Chapter 2981 either of the following:
         (a)   Goods to which or in connection with which a person attached,
affixed, otherwise used or intended to attach, affix or otherwise use a
counterfeit mark in violation of this section; or
         (b)   Tools, machines, instruments, materials, articles, vehicles or
other items of personal property that are possessed, sold, offered for sale or
used in a violation of this section or in an attempt to commit or complicity in
the commission of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. Chapter 2981, if a
person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, an
attempt to violate this section or complicity in a violation of this section,
the court involved shall declare that the goods described in division (D)(1)(a)
of this section and the personal property described in division (D)(1)(b) of
this section are contraband and are forfeited. Prior to the court’s entry of
judgment under Criminal Rule 32, the owner of a registered trademark or service
mark that is the subject to the counterfeit mark may recommend a manner in
which the forfeited goods and forfeited personal property should be disposed
of. If that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition, the
court is not bound by the recommendation. If that owner makes a timely
recommendation of a manner of disposition, the court may include in its entry
of judgment an order that requires appropriate persons to dispose of the
forfeited goods and forfeited personal property in the recommended manner. If
the owner fails to make a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition or
if that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition but the
court determines to not follow the recommendation, the court shall include in
its entry of judgement an order that requires the law enforcement agency that
employs the law enforcement officer who seized the forfeited goods or the
forfeited personal property to destroy them or cause their destruction.
   (E)   This section does not affect the rights of an owner of a trademark or
service mark, or the enforcement in a civil action or in administrative
proceedings of the rights of an owner or a trademark or service mark under the
Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as amended, the Trademark
Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as amended, R.C. Chapter
1329, or another section of the Ohio Revised Code or common law.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COUNTERFEIT MARK.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this definition, the term
means a spurious trademark or a spurious service mark that satisfies both of
the following:
            1.   It is identical with or substantially indistinguishable from a
mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office for the same goods or services as the goods or services to
which or in connection with which the spurious trademark or spurious service
mark is attached, affixed or otherwise used, or from a mark that is registered
with the Secretary of State pursuant to R.C. §§ 1329.54 through 1329.67 for the
same goods or services as the goods or services to which or in connection with
which the spurious trademark or spurious service mark is attached, affixed or
otherwise used, and the owner of the registration uses that registered
trademark, whether or not the offender knows that the mark is registered in a
manner described in this division (a)1.; and
            2.   Its use is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive
other persons.
         (b)   The term does not include a mark or other designation that is
attached to, affixed to or otherwise used in connection with goods or services
if the holder of the right to use the mark or other designation authorizes the
manufacturer, producer or vendor of those goods or services to attach, affix or
otherwise use the mark or other designation in connection with those goods or
services at the time of their manufacture, production or sale.
      CUMULATIVE SALES PRICE.  Means the product of the lowest single unit
sales price charged or sought to be charged by an offender for goods to which
or in connection with which a counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or
otherwise used or of the lowest single service transaction price charged or
sought to be charged by an offender for services in connection with which a
counterfeit mark is used, multiplied by the total number of those goods or
services, whether or not units of goods are sold or are in an offender’s
possession, custody or control.
      REGISTERED TRADEMARK OR SERVICE MARK.  Means a trademark or service mark
that is registered in a manner described in division (a) of the definition of
counterfeit mark.
      SERVICE MARK.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
      TRADEMARK.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
(R.C. § 2913.34)
§ 131.30  DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property; or
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07)
§ 131.31  RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes;
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number;
and
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 1349.17)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99)
§ 131.32  PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (B)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      TAMPER.  Means to interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter,
conduit or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a
meter or the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the
amount of utility service that is registered on the meter.
      UTILITY.  Means any electric light company, gas company, natural gas
company, pipe-line company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company,
as defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G) or (H), its lessees,
trustees or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(R.C. § 4933.18)
   (D)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G) or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19)
§ 131.33  MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION.  Means the capability of a device to
record or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of
any technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY.  Means a movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07)
§ 131.34  LITTERING AND DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GARBAGE.  Every waste or refuse, animal, fruit or vegetable matter,
liquid or otherwise, that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or
storage of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables.
      LITTER.  Cans; paper; furniture and furniture parts; motor vehicle parts
(including tires) which are unfit for further use due to defective and missing
parts; boats and boat parts which are unfit for further use due to defective or
missing parts; appliances and appliance parts which are unfit for further use
due to defective or missing parts.
      RUBBISH.  Foods, wire, chips, shavings, tree clippings, brush, bottles,
broken glass, crockery, tins, cast or woodenware, boxes, rags, dead weeds,
paper, circulars, handbills, boots, shoes, ashes, oil and other waste materials
other than garbage or offal.
      SCRAP METAL.  Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum
or any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or other materials,
whether intact or in parts whether in its original manufactured form or
crashed, damaged or compacted, and which can no longer be useful for its
originally intended purpose. SCRAP METAL may also include parts of automobiles,
trucks and trailers.
      USED BUILDING MATERIALS.  Any materials such as wood, stone, brick,
cement block, cement, roofing material, used fencing, trailer skirting and
trailer parts, or any composition thereof used or useful in the erection of
building or structure, which has been used previously for such erection or
construction by the same person or other persons.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, lessee, agent, tenant or person having charge of
or the responsibility for any lot or land within the village shall cause or
allow garbage, litter, rubbish, used building materials or scrap metals, to be
collected, stored or allowed to remain upon such lands or lands open to the
public.
   (C)   No owner, occupant, lessee, agent, tenant or other person having
charge or the responsibility for any lot or land within the village shall cause
or allow garbage, litter, rubbish, used building materials, scrap metals or any
other noxious or offensive materials or substances to be collected, stored or
allowed to remain upon such lands or lands open to the public which obstructs,
impedes, diverts, corrupts or renders unwholesome or impure, any natural
watercourse.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall place or dispose of in any manner any garbage,
litter, rubbish, used building materials, scrap metal or anything else of an
unsightly or unsanitary nature in any ditch, stream, river, lake, pond or other
watercourse, except those waters which do not combine or effect a junction with
natural surface or underground water, or upon the bank thereof where the same
is liable to be washed into the water either by ordinary flow or annual floods.
      (2)   This division (D) does not apply to any substance placed under
authority of a permit issued under R.C. § 6111.04 or exempted by such section
from its terms.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on each subsequent offense such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(1997 Code, § 131.29)  (Ord. 810-90, passed 6-11-1990)
§ 131.35  POSSESSION OF VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person, without being duly authorized, shall have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the village.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 131.30)
CHAPTER 132:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Riot
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Inciting to violence
   
132.11   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.12   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.13   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
   
132.14   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
   
132.15   Unlawful congregation on sidewalks
   
132.16   Curfew for minors
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
Statutory reference:
   Misuse of “Block Parent” or “McGruff House” symbol, see R.C. § 2917.46
§ 132.01  RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede or
obstruct a function of government; or
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 132.02  FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04)
§ 132.03  JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters; and
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 132.04  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway or right-of-way, or to, from, within or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender; or
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm
to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he or she
were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on others; or
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(2) of this section,
disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist;
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone;
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind; or
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON.  Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON.  Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11)
§ 132.05  DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession or gathering; or
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2917.12)
§ 132.06  MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility; or
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), misconduct at an emergency
is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a
risk of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON.  Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON.  Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13)
§ 132.07  TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Fails to identify the caller to the recipient of the
telecommunication and makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near or
in, has the responsibility of protecting or ensures the property that will be
destroyed or damaged; or
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises.
   (B)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or permit
a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under the
person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten or harass another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates divisions (A) or (B) of this section is guilty
of telecommunications harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(5) or (B) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a
felony on each subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be assessed in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service or information service, or
against any officer, employee or agent of a telecommunications service or
information service, for any injury, death or loss to person or property that
allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s, employee’s or agent’s
provision of information, facilities or assistance in accordance with the terms
of a court order that is issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution
of an alleged violation of this section. A provider of a telecommunications
service or information service, or an officer, employee or agent of a
telecommunications service or information service, is immune from any civil or
criminal liability for injury, death or loss to person or property that
allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s, employee’s or agent’s
provision of information, facilities or assistance in accordance with the terms
of a court order that is issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution
of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section:
      CALLER.  Means the person described in division (A) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person’s control.
      ECONOMIC HARM.  Means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct; and
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (F)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the Telephone
Consumer Protection Act, 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21)
§ 132.08  INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false;
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence; or
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM.  Means any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. ECONOMIC HARM as described in
this definition includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct; and
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all
costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the political
subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  Means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch or technical
college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713; or
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL.  Means any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C.
§ 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a violation of
this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION.  Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life; or
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of destructive
device pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine or similar
device; and
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31)
§ 132.09  MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm;
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property; or
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division (C), making false alarms is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of this section results in
economic harm of $1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains
to a purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction,
making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section, ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION
have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32)
§ 132.10  INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed; or
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01)
§ 132.11  UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)
§ 132.12  IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  Means an employee of the United States
who serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      IMPERSONATE.  Means to act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the
uniform or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a
particular person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make
another person believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member
of that class of persons.
      INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION. 
Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      PEACE OFFICER.  A Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, Marshal, Deputy Marshal,
member of the organized Police Department of a municipal corporation or
township constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer
appointed under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under
R.C. § 5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under
R.C. § 4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent or employee of the state or any of
its agencies, instrumentalities or political subdivisions, upon whom, by
statute, a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is
imposed and the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of
that statutory duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose
primary duties are to preserve the peace, to protect life and property, and to
enforce the laws, ordinances or rules of the state or any of its political
subdivisions.
      PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER.  Means any security guard, special police
officer, private detective or other person who is privately employed in a
police capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51)
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
§ 132.13  SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CONCERT.  Means a musical performance of which the primary component is a
presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. The term
does not include any performance in which music is a part of the presentation
and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion picture, a
demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an instrument,
an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      FACILITY.  Means any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that
has walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including but not limited
to a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition hall,
convention center or music hall.
      LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE.  Means any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. The term
does not include any form of entertainment with respect to which the person
purchasing a ticket routinely participates in amusements as well as views
performers.
      PERSON.  Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in
R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA.  Means any wholly or partially enclosed
area, whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         (a)   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (D) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public; or
         (b)   A concert that is not exempted under division (D) of this
section and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any concert as described in
division (B)(1)(b) of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only.”
   (C)   Unless exempted by division (D)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (E)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (D)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         (a)   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices; and
         (b)   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   (a)   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (B) of
this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such
officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
officer shall consider the following factors: the size and design of the
facility in which the concert is scheduled; the size, age and anticipated
conduct of the crowd expected to attend the concert; and the ability of the
sponsor to manage and control the expected crowd. If the sponsor of any concert
desires to obtain an exemption under this division (D), the sponsor shall apply
to the appropriate official on a form prescribed by that official. The official
shall issue an order that grants or denies the exemption within five days after
receipt of the application. The sponsor may appeal any order that denies an
exemption to the court of common pleas of the county in which the facility is
located.
         (b)   If an official grants an exemption under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (D)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(D)(2)(a) of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
and
         (b)   If the officer grants an exemption under division (D)(3)(a) of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (E)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(D)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (C) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04.
   (F)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (H)   This section does not prohibit the legislative authority from imposing
additional requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or
holding of live entertainment performances.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
the individual’s person as a result of a violation of this section, the
sentencing court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of
imprisonment upon the offender.
(R.C. § 2917.40)
§ 132.14  MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 through 306.13, a
regional transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.71 or a regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§
306.80 through 306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (E) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the treasury of the county and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the treasury of the County.
(R.C. § 2917.41)
§ 132.15  UNLAWFUL CONGREGATION ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall congregate with others on the sidewalk, street corner
or within the parks or public grounds, with intent to provoke a breach of the
peace; or whereby a breach of the peace may be occasioned by the serious
annoyance to pedestrians or by threatening, insulting or abusive conduct to
them; and refuse to move on when ordered by a police officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 132.13)
§ 132.16  CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS.  Any privately owned or operated retail establishment,
including but not limited to service stations, restaurants and places of a
similar nature and any place of amusement or entertainment to which the public
or certain members thereof are invited.
      DRIVE OR RIDE AIMLESSLY.  To drive or ride on a motor vehicle, motorcycle
or bicycle in a circuitous route or to retrace the same route.
      LOITER.  To idle, loaf, linger or to wander or stroll aimlessly.
      MINOR.  Any person under the age of 18 years.
      OPERATOR.  Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating or commencing any business, and as applied to associations or
partnerships includes the members or partners thereof, and as applied to
corporations includes the officers thereof.
      PARENT.  Any natural parent, guardian or any adult person over 18 years
of age responsible for the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Any public street, highway, road, alley, park, playground,
public building or vacant lot or privately owned property permitted to be used
by the public or certain members thereof.
   (B)   Restrictions on minors.
      (1)   No minor shall loiter in or about any business or public place
between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, except on Friday and
Saturday the hours shall be between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following
day.
      (2)   No minor shall drive or ride aimlessly in a motor vehicle,
motorcycle or bicycle between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day,
except that on Friday and Saturday the hours shall be between 11:00 p.m. and 6:
00 a.m. of the following day.
   (C)   Exceptions.  This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent, guardian or
custodian;
      (3)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by his
or her parent, guardian or custodian;
      (4)   Occupying the sidewalk of the place where such minor resides, or on
the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor who has not communicated an objection
to a police officer or the Police Department; or
      (5)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious or
social event; or
         (c)   Interstate travel.
   (D)   Parental responsibility.  No parent shall knowingly permit a minor in
his or her charge to loiter in or about any business or public place or to
drive or ride aimlessly between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day,
except on Friday and Saturday the hours shall be between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. of the following day.
   (E)   Responsibility of business operators.  No operator of a business or
his or her agent or employee shall knowingly permit any person under the age of
18 to remain upon the premises of such business between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, except that on Friday and Saturday the
hours shall be between 11:00 pm. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day. It is a
defense to prosecution under this division (E) that the owner, operator, agent
or employee of a business promptly notified the Police Department that a minor
was present on the premises of the establishment during curfew hours and
refused to leave.
   (F)   Police procedure.
      (1)   Any police officer who finds a minor in violation of provisions of
this section shall obtain from the minor his or her name, address and age, the
names of his or her parents and other information that the officer deems
pertinent to the incident.
      (2)   The minor shall thereupon be instructed to proceed to his or her
home forthwith. If in the officer’s opinion the minor will not obey these
instructions by the officer, the minor shall be taken to police headquarters
and his or her parents called to come to the office and take possession of the
minor. A written notice shall be mailed by the Police Department to the parents
of the minor advising them of the violation of this section.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Each violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (2)   Any parent, who after having received at least one written notice
of the violation of this section by a minor violates division (D) hereof, is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Any operator of a business or agent or employee thereof who
violates division (E) hereof is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 132.14)
CHAPTER 133:  SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Public indecency
   
133.05   Voyeurism
   
133.06   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
133.07   Procuring
   
133.08   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.09   Prostitution
   
133.10   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.11   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.12   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.13   Rules of evidence
   
133.14   Declaratory judgment
   
133.15   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.16   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.17   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.18   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
 
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Statutory reference:
   Assistance to victims of sexual assault, see R.C. §§ 2907.28 et seq.
   Child victim, disposition of, see R.C. § 2945.481
   Suppression of information at trial, see R.C. § 2907.11
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.  That quality of any material or performance
describing or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-
masochistic abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex;
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles; and
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE.  Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL.  Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal display
or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer hard disk,
computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape or similar data storage
device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR.  A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY.  The showing, representation or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering or of a
female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE.  When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
OBSCENE if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest;
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite;
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty or brutality;
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral or artistic
purpose; or
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE.  Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PROSTITUTE.  A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE.  Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY.  Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT.  Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT.  Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT.  The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE.  A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06;
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage or legal separation; or
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01)
§ 133.02  UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04)
§ 133.03  SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard;
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired;
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact;
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person; and
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender has been convicted previously
of a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05,
2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2907.06)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04  PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts;
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation; or
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is a minor, who is not the spouse of the offender, and who resides
in the person’s household:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation;
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct;
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation; or
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4) and (C)(5) of
this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was
likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (D)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 133.05  VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph or otherwise record the other
person in a state of nudity.
   (C)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, otherwise record, or spy or
eavesdrop upon the other person in a state of nudity if the other person is a
minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph or otherwise record another person under or through the clothing
being worn by that person for the purpose of viewing the body of, or the
undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08)
§ 133.06  POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor or other public official shall not
ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a polygraph
examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of the alleged
sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex offense
or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION.  Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION.  Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE.  Means a violation of any provision of §§
133.02 to
133.05 or R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10)
§ 133.07  PROCURING.
   (A)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel; or
      (2)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
   (B)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of procuring. Except as
otherwise provided in this division (C), procuring is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the prostitute who is procured, patronized or otherwise
involved in a violation of division (A)(2) of this section is under 18 years of
age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who
violates division (A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, or if a
prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in premises used in
violation of division (B) of this section is under 18 years of age at the time
of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who violates division (B)
of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
§ 133.08  SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   No person shall solicit another to engage with the other person in
sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section or an attempt to commit a violation of division
(A) of this section and if the person, in committing or attempting to commit
the violation, was in, was on or used a motor vehicle, the court, in addition
to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation, may impose
upon the offender a class six suspension of the person’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(6). In lieu of imposing upon the offender the class six suspension, the
court instead may require the offender to perform community service for a
number of hours determined by the court.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
   (C)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger; or
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (D)   As used in division (C) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Means any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility;
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) of this definition; or
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of loitering
to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2907.241)
Statutory reference:
   Offenders with knowledge that they test HIV positive, felony, see R.C. §§
2907.24(B) and 2907.241(B)
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.09  PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of prostitution, a misdemeanor
of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2907.25)
Statutory reference:
   Offenders with knowledge that they test HIV positive, felony, see R.C. §
2907.25(B)
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.10  DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles; or
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian or spouse of the juvenile
involved;
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile; and
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile;
or
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division (E), a violation of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or
performance involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31)
   (F)   Presumptions, notice and defense.
      (1)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager,
of a bookstore, newsstand, theater or other commercial establishment engaged in
selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
      (2)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
      (3)   This §
133.10 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of §§
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
         (b)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §
133.10,
133.11 or
133.12 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
         (c)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely
transferring information that is engaged in the violation of §
133.10,
133.11 or
133.12 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §
133.10,
133.11 or
133.12 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct; or
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
133.10 or
133.11 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35)
§ 133.11  DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
§ 133.12  DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian or spouse
of the juvenile; or
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married; or
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
Statutory reference:
   Juvenile court, see R.C. Chapter 2151
§ 133.13  RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (B)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (C)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
133.07 through
133.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused’s spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender’s premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire;
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.08(A) or §
133.09.
(R.C. § 2907.26)
§ 133.14  DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated; and
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party’s request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case; or
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36)
§ 133.15  INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37)
Statutory reference:
   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles, felony, see R.C. § 2907.31
   Pandering obscenity, felony, see R.C. § 2907.32
§ 133.16  UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT.  Means an entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct; or
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES.  Means films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door or other covering or enclosure; and
      (2)   No booth, stall or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall or partitioned room has any aperture, hole or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge or
other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or performances;
or
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38)
§ 133.17  JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE.  Means any place to which the public is permitted or
invited in which coin-operated, slug-operated or electronically, electrically
or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or
other image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five
or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter
exhibiting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas; or
            2.   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and still
be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store or adult video store.
The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store
or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes is
offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET.  Means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle
club or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages
are served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities; and
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT.  Means the sale, rental or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT.  Means an adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio or sexual
encounter establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist or similar professional person licensed by the state
engages in medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not limited
to massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an ADULT
ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER.  Means a theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON.  Means the
dominant or principal character and theme of the object described by this
phrase. For instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished
or characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas,” the films so
described are those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO.  Means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE or STATE OF NUDITY.  Means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than
a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. Means a consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY.  Means a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities; or
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not limited to massage
therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a SEXUAL ENCOUNTER
ESTABLISHMENT.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.  Means the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male
or female genitals or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY.  Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including but not
limited to a patron, customer or employee, who is under 18 years of age on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following.
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent or independent contractor made a bona
fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance to the
adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification presented, at
the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the identification
compared with the appearance of the individual and that the identification had
not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
Deputy Registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or Deputy
Registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division (F)
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39)
§ 133.18  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.  Means a commercial establishment
that has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or
inventory in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues
from, devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of books,
magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides or other visual
representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
to more than five individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY.  Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE.  Means any individual who performs any service on the premises
of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      NUDITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      OPERATOR.  Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation
the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON.  Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises; or
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES.  Means the real property on which the sexually oriented
business is located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but
not limited, to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways
and parking lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the
ownership, control or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually
oriented business.
      REGULARLY.  Means consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE.  Means any three-dimensional object designed and marketed
for stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts
or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including but not
limited to dildos, vibrators, penis pumps and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP.  Means a commercial establishment that regularly
features sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical
clinic or establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare
products or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does
not restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER.  Means a business or commercial enterprise that,
as one of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  Means an adult bookstore, adult video store,
adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop or sexual
encounter center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its
showing, selling or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.  Includes human genitals, pubic region and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY.  Means sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation or sodomy or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
      STATE OF NUDITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      STATE OF SEMINUDITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the performers
appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.99  SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05 and 2950.06,
and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender, at the
time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required under
R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in that
section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall perform the
duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing generally, see
Chapter 130
CHAPTER 134:  GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling; exception
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Regulations concerning operation of licensed bingo game
   
134.07   Records to be kept
   
134.08   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.09   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.11   Raffle drawings
   
134.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
   Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see R.C. § 2915.07
   Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see R.C. § 2915.08
   Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.081
   Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.082
§ 134.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET.  The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO.  Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets; and
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, punch boards and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR.  Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling and serving food or beverages.
   BINGO SESSION.  A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section,
instant bingo and seal cards; and
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and seal cards for not
more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the period
described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES.  Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; and devices for selecting or displaying the combination of
bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets. Items that are BINGO SUPPLIES are
not gambling devices if sold or otherwise provided, and used, in accordance
with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For purposes of this chapter, BINGO
SUPPLIES are not to be considered equipment used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING.  The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE.  Any organization of individuals, professionals and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME.  Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION.  An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and
is a charitable organization as defined in this section. The term does not
include a charitable organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and that is created by a
veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization or a sporting organization in
regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization or a sporting organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, CHARITABLE
ORGANIZATION means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is and has received from the Internal
Revenue Service a determination letter that is currently in effect, stating
that the organization is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a)
and described in IRC § 501(c)(3); or
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE.  Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or otherwise transferred to, any of
the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC §§ 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2)
or 509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter or organization of
veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for, any
such post, chapter or organization organized in the United States or any of its
possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the Ohio
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary or educational purposes, or for the prevention
of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use would qualify
as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC § 170; or
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT.  To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL OF INSTANT BINGO TICKETS.  A single game of instant bingo tickets all
with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR.  Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who
does either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state; or
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller;
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device; and
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   The term does not include any device into which a coin, currency,
token or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   EXPENSES.  The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all
of the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted; and
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(B)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION.  Any society, order, state headquarters or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token or other device representing a chance, share or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes; or
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2915.02, 2915.03, 2915.04, 2915.05, 2915.06,
2915.07, 2915.08, 2915.081, 2915.082, 2915.09, 2915.091, 2915.092, 2915.10 or
2915.11;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition or a violation of R.C. §
2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element; or
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE.  The board or placard that accompanies each deal of instant
bingo tickets and that has printed on or affixed to it the following
information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning instant bingo
tickets by denomination and the respective winning symbol or number
combinations for the winning instant bingo tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play; and
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE.  Poker, craps, roulette or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT.  Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES.  The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct
of bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT.  Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for the
payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS.  All money or assets, including admission fees, that a
person receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid
out or for the expenses of conducting bingo. The term does not include any
money directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo;
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage; and
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD.  All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO.  A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. In all INSTANT BINGO the prize amount and structure shall be
predetermined. The term does not include any device that is activated by the
insertion of a coin, currency, token or an equivalent, and that contains as one
of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER.  A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency;
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions;
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise;
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols or
characters in winning or losing combinations;
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels;
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator;
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses; and
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE (IRC).  The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER.  Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE.  Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, bingo or instant
bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT.  Gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO.  Gross profit
minus the ordinary, necessary and reasonable expense expended for the purchase
of instant bingo supplies, and, in the case of instant bingo conducted by a
veteran’s, fraternal or sporting organization, minus the payment by that
organization of real property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on
which instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT.  Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT.  A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD.  A board containing a number of holes or receptacles of uniform
size in which are placed, mechanically and randomly, serially numbered slips of
paper that may be punched or drawn from the hole or receptacle when used in
conjunction with instant bingo. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips
of paper from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the
game if the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE.  A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
RAFFLE are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the RAFFLE. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER.  Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION.  Any church, body of communicants or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE.  To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081 or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors.
   SEAL CARD.  A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL.  Includes any person who either is a Sheriff, Deputy
Sheriff, Marshal, Deputy Marshal, township constable or member of an organized
Police Department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79 and
who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player; and
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play;
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest, competition
or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-contest,
competition or tournament play; and
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest, competition
or tournament, that contest, competition or tournament has a defined starting
and ending date and is open to participants in competition for scoring and
ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest, competition or
tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain; or
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine or an
instant bingo ticket dispenser.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION.  A hunting, fishing or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been in
continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND.  To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder
of a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081 or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in §
134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION.  Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION.  Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer Fire Department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION.  Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION.  Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating or contributing to the support of
an athletic team, club, league or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION.  Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates and maintains playing fields that satisfy both of
the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used at least 100 days per year for
athletic activities by one or more organizations, not organized for profit,
each of which is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial
support to, or to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 18 years of
age or younger by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating or contributing to
the support of an athletic team, club, league or association; and
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01)
§ 134.02  PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking;
      (2)   Establish, promote or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance;
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission or exchange of information for use in
establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or with
any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance;
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood; or
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10;
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F); or
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5), or (A)(6)  of this section, acquire, possess, control or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money;
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)
(3);
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division (D), if the
veteran’s or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times
during the preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a
charitable organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division (D), the
charitable organization shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of
the festival that exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable
organization may pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable
organization to conduct bingo games;
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3); and
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92; and
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (G) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K))
§ 134.03  OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; or
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03)
§ 134.04  PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall or
other place of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort shall make a
bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division (D), public gaming is a minor misdemeanor.
If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04)
§ 134.05  CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet;
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event;
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance; or
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event; or
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05)
§ 134.06  REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION OF LICENSED BINGO GAME.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises; or
      (3)   Use, or give, donate or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo, other than instant bingo, for a charitable purpose listed
in its license application and described in the definition for “charitable
purpose” in R.C. § 2915.01, or distribute all of the net profit from the
proceeds of the sale of instant bingo as stated in its license application and
in accordance with R.C. § 2915.101.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies or any other type of service. A charitable
organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or leases to
more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for conducting
bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable organization
shall not lease premises that it owns, leases or otherwise is empowered to
lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than nine
bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted; or
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. Prizes do not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo;
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division (C) does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(F). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids;
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets;
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid;
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted;
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used; and
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at the site of instant bingo other than at a
bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division (G), whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11) or (D)
of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2),
(B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11) or (D) of this section, a violation of division
(A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11) or (D) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09)
§ 134.07  RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each raffle, each punch board game and
each game of chance, and an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of
instant bingo by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo or instant bingo, the name of each person to whom
the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number, and the name, address and Social Security number of all
persons who are winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), R.C. § 2915.02(D) or R.C. § 2915.101, a
list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T); and
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game or each game of instant bingo conducted by
the charitable organization in the sale of food and beverages by the charitable
organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization,
the name of each person to whom the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of
the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies; and
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers; and
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization or any officer, agent,
trustee, member or employee of the organization;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the organization;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted; and
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization or an officer, agent, trustee, member or
employee of the organization has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C.
Chapter 2915, the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper
court to enforce this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law
enforcement agency shall give written notice to the Attorney General when
commencing an action as described in this division (H).
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization that have been requested
for examination, or obstruct, impede or interfere with any inspection, audit or
observation of bingo or a game of chance or premises where bingo or a game of
chance is conducted or refuse to comply with any reasonable request of, or
obstruct, impede or interfere with any other reasonable action undertaken by,
the Attorney General or a law enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of
this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10)
§ 134.08  REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11)
§ 134.09  BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections
134.06 through
134.13 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the purpose of
amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of amusement only if
it complies with all of the requirements specified in either division (A)(1) or
(A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance; or
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly and regardless of the
source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at the
site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance; or
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12)
§ 134.10  PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2) and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716; or
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10) or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC § 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under
R.C. § 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold; and
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold; or
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division (D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)
§ 134.11  RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a charitable
organization, a public school, a chartered nonpublic school, a community school
or a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting organization
that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and is described
in IRC §§ 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19)
may conduct a raffle to raise money for the organization or school and does not
need a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is
not for profit.
      (2)   If a charitable organization that is described in division (A)(1)
of this section, but that is not also described in IRC § 501(c)(3), conducts a
raffle, the charitable organization shall distribute at least 50% of the net
profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C. § 2915.01(V)
or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state or any
political subdivision.
   (B)   A chamber of commerce may conduct not more than one raffle per year to
raise money for the chamber of commerce.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A) or (B) of this section, no person
shall conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is
not for profit.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 134.12  INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, the charitable instant bingo organization
shall enter into a written contract with the owner or lessor of the location at
which the instant bingo is conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in
the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each
location where the instant bingo other than at a bingo session is being
conducted, and identify the owner or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session is not required to enter into a written contract
with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted provided that the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of
the instant bingo other than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct
of the instant bingo other than at a bingo session at that location is not more
than five days per calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets; provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division (D).
      (3)   As used in this division (D)(3), EXPENSES means those items
provided for in R.C. §§ 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8),
(GG)(12) and (GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for
the location where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate,
shall not exceed 6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo
tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division (D)(4), FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount
by which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location; and
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (G)   (1)   A veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization or a sporting
organization authorized to conduct a bingo session pursuant to R.C. Chapter
2915 may conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo session if all of the
following apply:
         (a)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo to 12 hours during any day,
provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00 a.m. and ends not
later than 2:00 a.m.;
         (b)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo to its own premises and to its
own members and invited guests; and
         (c)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of
this section is raising money for another organization that is described in IRC
§ 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state, the veteran’s
organization, fraternal organization or sporting organization shall execute a
written contract with the organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1),
(a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that
maintains its principal place of business in this state, that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and
that is in good standing in this state in order to conduct instant bingo. That
contract shall include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that
the veteran’s, fraternal or sporting organization will be distributing to the
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good
standing in this state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo pursuant to division
(G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor permit under R.C. Chapter 4303,
that permit may be subject to suspension, revocation or cancellation if the
veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting organization
violates a provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo to the organization with which the veteran’s organization,
fraternal organization or sporting organization has entered into a written
contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this division (G),
illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (G) of this
section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 134.13  RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(E), illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or (D) of
this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094)
§ 134.14  SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3) or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy or novelty received as a reward for
playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or reduced-
price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
CHAPTER 135:  OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Negligent homicide
   
135.03   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter
   
135.04   Assault; negligent assault
   
135.05   Injury to persons by hunters
   
135.06   Menacing; aggravated menacing; menacing by stalking
   
135.07   Unlawful restraint
   
135.08   Criminal child enticement
   
135.09   Coercion
   
135.10   Bigamy
   
135.11   Unlawful abortion; failure to perform viability testing
   
135.12   Abortion trafficking
   
135.13   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.14   Endangering children
   
135.15   Interference with custody; interference with support orders
   
135.16   Domestic violence
   
135.17   Hazing prohibited
   
135.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
   
135.19   Failure to provide for functionally impaired person
   
135.20   Patient abuse or neglect; patient endangerment; exceptions; false
statements; retaliation
   
135.21   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions
because of race, religion or the like
   
135.22   Ethnic intimidation
   
135.23   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.24   Adulteration of food
   
135.25   Illegal distribution of cigarettes or other tobacco products;
transaction scans
   
135.26   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
135.27   Spreading contagion
   
135.28   Abuse of a corpse
   
135.29   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
Statutory reference:
   Child care, misrepresentations by providers and failure to disclose death or
serious injuries, misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2919.223 et seq.
   Extortionate extension of credit, see R.C. §§ 2905.21 through 2905.24
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
   Rights of victims of crimes, see R.C. Chapter 2930
§ 135.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
135.01 through
135.06, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANOTHER’S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON’S UNBORN.  A member of the species Homo
sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
      UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER’S PREGNANCY.  Causing the death of an
unborn member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of
another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins with
fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms “another’s unborn,” “other person’s unborn” and
“unlawful termination of another’s pregnancy” that are set forth in division
(A) of this section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(1) of this
section, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as any violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions described in
the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. § 2919.12,
2919.13(B), 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section, as
applicable; or
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         (a)   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
         (b)   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
         (c)   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
         (d)   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human; or
         (e)   Her causing, threatening to cause or attempting to cause, in any
other manner, an injury, illness or other psychological illness or condition,
regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human that she is
carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09)
§ 135.02  NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 135.03  VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; or
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly; or
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
(A) applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently; or
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division (A) applies
only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully
terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission
of the speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as
described in division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B),
vehicular homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide
committed in violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the
offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C.
Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or
nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the
offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without examination
under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-related homicide,
manslaughter or assault offense. The court shall impose a mandatory jail term
on the offender when required by division (C) of this section.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division (B), the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension
of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense, a class three
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(3), or, if the offender
previously had been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a traffic-related murder,
felonious assault or attempted murder offense, a class two suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege as specified in
R.C. § 4510.02(A)(2).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B),
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license
or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the
offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without examination
under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-related homicide,
manslaughter or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division (B), the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension
of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense, or a traffic-related
murder, felonious assault or attempted murder offense, a class four suspension
of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory prison term on an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony violation of this section, as
provided in R.C. § 2903.06(E). The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of
at least 15 days on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon
the offender a longer jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a) or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE.  Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE.  Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Means a
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07 or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT OR ATTEMPTED MURDER OFFENSE.
Means a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances in which
the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the violation, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the deadly weapon
used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an attempt to
commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated vehicular assault, felony, see R.C. § 2903.08
   Trial court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 135.04  ASSAULT; NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   Assault.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to another or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when
it is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(G).
(R.C. § 2903.13)
   (B)   Negligent assault.
      (1)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
negligent assault, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Aggravated vehicular assault, felony, see R.C. § 2903.08
   Felony offenses: assaulting functionally impaired person, peace officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation,
firefighter, person performing emergency medical service, officer or employee
of a public children services agency or private child placing agency; assault
at a correctional institution; assault on school officials and school bus
drivers; health care professional, worker or security guard at a hospital under
certain circumstances; judge, magistrate, prosecutor or court official or
employee under certain circumstances, see  R.C. § 2903.13(C)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.05  INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.06  MENACING; AGGRAVATED MENACING; MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   Menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn or a member of the other person’s immediate
family.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (A)(2), menacing is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or a private child placing agency
and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, menacing is a
misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that
prior offense was an officer or employee of a public children services agency
or private child placing agency, and that prior offense related to the
officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities or duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2903.22)
   (B)   Aggravated menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, such other person’s unborn or a member of such other person’s
immediate family.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
aggravated menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(2),
aggravated menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the
offense is an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a
private child placing agency and the offense relates to the officer’s or
employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities
or duties, aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.21)
   (C)   Menacing by stalking.
      (1)   (a)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or cause mental distress to the other person.
         (b)   No person, through the use of any electronic method of remotely
transferring information, including but not limited to any computer, computer
network, computer program or computer system, shall post a message with purpose
to urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (C)(1)(a) of this
section.
         (c)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (C)
(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses;
            2.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or
against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (C)
(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim;
            3.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed or attends school, or as a result of an
offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a
third person induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or
premises where the victim lives, is employed or attends school;
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor;
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person;
            6.   While committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a) of this
section or a violation of division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct
in violation of division (C)(1)(a) of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control.
Division (C)(2)(b)6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section or a violation of
division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct in violation of division
(C)(1)(b) of this section;
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person;
            8.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the
premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) of this section or
an offense committed under division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on a
violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property, or any personal property on that premises;
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness;
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties; or
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   As used in division (C) of this section:
         COMPUTER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER NETWORK.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER PROGRAM.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER SYSTEM.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON.  Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
         EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON.  Is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         MENTAL DISTRESS.  Means any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity; or
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment or other mental health services,
whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric treatment,
psychological treatment or other mental health services.
         PATTERN OF CONDUCT.  Means two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents. Actions or incidents that prevent, obstruct or
delay the performance by a public official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency
medical services person or emergency facility person of any authorized act
within the public official’s, firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical
services person’s or emergency facility person’s official capacity or the
posting of messages or receipt of information or data through the use of an
electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but not
limited to a computer, computer network, computer program, computer system or
telecommunications device, may constitute a PATTERN OF CONDUCT.
         POST A MESSAGE.  Means transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
         PUBLIC OFFICIAL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         SEXUAL MOTIVATION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         THIRD PERSON.  Means, in relation to conduct as described in division
(C)(1)(b) of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the
victim of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (C) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division (2) of
the definition for “mental distress” in this section.
      (6)   (a)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a person
solely because the person provided access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control, including having provided capabilities that are incidental to
providing access or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely
transferring the information, and that do not include the creation of the
content of the material that is the subject of the access or connection. In
addition, any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control
shall not be liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of this section.
         (b)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not create an
affirmative duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control to block the receipt or transmission through its service of any
information that it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of
this section except as otherwise provided by law.
         (c)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (C) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.07  UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01.
(R.C. § 2905.03)
§ 135.08  CRIMINAL CHILD ENTICEMENT.
   (A)   No person, by any means and without privilege to do so, shall
knowingly solicit, coax, entice or lure any child under 14 years of age to
accompany the person in any manner, including entering into any vehicle or onto
any vessel, whether or not the offender knows the age of the child, if both of
the following apply:
      (1)   The actor does not have the express or implied permission of the
parent, guardian or other legal custodian of the child in undertaking the
activity; and
      (2)   The actor is not a law enforcement officer, medic, firefighter or
other person who regularly provides emergency services, and is not an employee
or agent of, or a volunteer acting under the direction of, any board of
education, or the actor is any such person, but at the time the actor
undertakes the activity, the actor is not acting within the scope of the
actor’s lawful duties in that capacity.
   (B)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (A) of
this section.
   (C)   No person, for any unlawful purpose other than, or in addition to,
that proscribed by division (A) of this section, shall engage in any activity
described in division (A) of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A) of this
section that the actor undertook the activity in response to a bona fide
emergency situation or that the actor undertook the activity in a reasonable
belief that it was necessary to preserve the health, safety or welfare of the
child.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (A), (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of
criminal child enticement, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of this section, a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or
former R.C. § 2907.12, or R.C. § 2905.01 or 2907.05 when the victim of that
prior offense was under 17 years of age at the time of the offense, criminal
child enticement is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      SEXUAL MOTIVATION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
      VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      VESSEL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1547.01.
(R.C. § 2905.05)
§ 135.09  COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which he or she has a legal freedom of choice, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense;
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person;
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt or ridicule, or to damage his or her personal or
business repute, or to impair his or her credit;
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person; or
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44;
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which he or she is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence; or
      (3)   Imposing probation on certain conditions, including without
limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or redress to the victim
of his or her offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) of this section that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable response to
the circumstances which occasioned it, and that his or her purpose was limited
to:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct;
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice;
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified; or
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section, THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat
by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12)
§ 135.10  BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor’s spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.01)
§ 135.11  UNLAWFUL ABORTION; FAILURE TO PERFORM VIABILITY TESTING.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ABORTION.  Means the purposeful termination of a human pregnancy by any
person, including the pregnant woman herself, with an intention other than to
produce a live birth or to remove a dead fetus or embryo.
(R.C. § 2919.11)
      EMANCIPATED.  A minor shall be considered emancipated if the minor has
married, entered the armed services of the United States, become employed and
self-subsisting, or has otherwise become independent from the care and control
of her parent, guardian or custodian.
      UNEMANCIPATED.  Means a woman who is unmarried and under 18 years of age
who has not entered the armed services of the United States, has not become
employed and self-subsisting, or has not otherwise become independent from the
care and control of her parent, guardian or custodian.
   (B)   No person shall perform or induce an abortion without the informed
consent of the pregnant woman.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a
pregnant minor unless one of the following is the case:
      (1)   The attending physician has secured the informed written consent of
the minor and one parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   The minor is emancipated and the attending physician has received
her informed written consent;
      (3)   The minor has been authorized to consent to the abortion by a court
order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2919.121(C) and the attending physician has
received her informed written consent; or
      (4)   The court has given its consent in accordance with R.C. § 2919.121
(C) and the minor is having the abortion willingly.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a woman
who is pregnant, unmarried, under 18 years of age and unemancipated unless at
least one of the circumstances enumerated in R.C. § 2919.12(B) applies.
   (E)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (D) of
this section that the pregnant woman provided the person who performed or
induced the abortion with false, misleading or incorrect information about her
age, marital status or emancipation, about the age of the brother or sister to
whom she requested notice to be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian or her custodian, or about the last known address of
either of her parents, her guardian, her custodian or a specified brother,
sister, stepparent or grandparent to whom she requested notice be given and the
person who performed or induced the abortion did not otherwise have reasonable
cause to believe the pregnant woman was under 18 years of age, unmarried or
unemancipated, to believe that the age of the brother or sister to whom she
requested notice be given as a specified relative instead of one of her
parents, her guardian or her custodian was not 21 years of age, or to believe
that the last known address of either of her parents, her guardian, her
custodian, or a specified brother, sister, stepparent or grandparent to whom
she requested notice be given was incorrect.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
compliance with the requirements of this section was not possible because an
immediate threat of serious risk to the life or physical health of the pregnant
woman or pregnant minor from the continuation of her pregnancy created an
emergency necessitating the immediate performance or inducement of an abortion.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful abortion. A
violation of division (B), (C) or (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree on the first offense and a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is liable to the pregnant woman or
pregnant minor, and her parents, guardian or custodian for civil, compensatory
and exemplary damages.
(R.C. §§ 2919.12, 2919.121)
   (H)   (1)   Division (C) of this section applies in lieu of division (D) of
this section whenever its operation is not enjoined. If division (C) of this
section is enjoined, division (D) of this section applies.
      (2)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (D) of this
section under the good faith belief that the application or enforcement of
division (C) of this section is subject to a restraining order or injunction,
good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense to any civil,
criminal or professional disciplinary action brought under division (C) of this
section or R.C. § 2919.121.
      (3)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (C) of this
section under the good faith belief that it is not subject to a restraining
order or injunction, good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense
to any civil, criminal or professional disciplinary action for failure to
comply with the requirements of division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 2919.122)
   (I)   Failure to perform viability testing.
      (1)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division (I), no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or
induce an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth
week of gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the
abortion or the attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician
determines, in the physician’s good faith medical judgment, that the unborn
child is not viable, and the physician makes that determination after
performing a medical examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or
causing to be performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung
maturity or other tests that the physician, in that physician’s good faith
medical judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child
is viable.
      (2)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division (I), no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or
induce an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth
week of gestation without first entering the determination made in division (I)
(1) of this section and the associated findings of the medical examination and
tests in the medical record of the pregnant woman.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (I) is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician’s license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six months if the
physician violates this section.
(R.C. § 2919.18)
Statutory reference:
   Judicial bypass, see R.C. § 2151.85
   Judicial consent and the right of a minor to consent, see R.C. § 2919.121(C)
   Notice or consent requirements for unmarried minors, see R.C. § 2919.12(B)
§ 135.12  ABORTION TRAFFICKING.
   (A)   No person shall experiment upon or sell the product of human
conception which is aborted. Experiment does not include autopsies pursuant to
R.C. §§ 313.13 and 2108.50.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abortion trafficking, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.14)
§ 135.13  NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   His or her spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   His or her legitimate or illegitimate child who is under age 18, or
mentally or physically disabled child who is under age 21; and
      (3)   His or her aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from lack
of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for his or her own
support.
   (B)   No person shall abandon or fail to provide support as established by
court order to another person whom, by court order or decree, the person is
legally obligated to support.
   (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage or contribute to a
child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined in
R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (B) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused, or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or was mentally or
physically disabled and under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G), whoever
violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of
dependents, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
if the offender has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) of
this section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (A)(2) or (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or
(B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31 or 3115.31, the
court, in addition to any other sentence imposed, shall assess all court costs
arising out of the charge against the person and require the person to pay any
reasonable attorney’s fees of any adverse party other than the state, as
determined by the court, that arose in relation to the charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (C) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21)
§ 135.14  ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age, shall create
a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a duty of
care, protection or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection or support under this division (A) when the parent, guardian,
custodian or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical or
mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child;
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child;
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child;
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development;
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter or is nudity-oriented matter; or
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division (B).
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division (C) and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division (C). For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 through
4511.197 and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation
of this division (C) shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a
vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursuing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division (D) and division (B)(5) of this section:
         MATERIAL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER.  Means any material or performance that shows
a minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         OBSCENE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         PERFORMANCE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER.  Means any material or performance that
shows a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c) or
(E)(1)(d), a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (E)(1)(d) of this section, endangering children is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law;
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law; or
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5) or
(B)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c), endangering
children in violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree;
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment or contributing to the delinquency of or
physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)(c)
of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law;
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law;
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine or other sentence,
penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to divisions (E)(3)
(a), (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c) of this section or pursuant to any other provision
of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s driver’s license or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under
R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510 or 4511, or any other provision of law, the court
also may impose upon the offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7); and
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine or other sentence,
penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division (E)(3)(a),
(E)(3)(b), (E)(3)(c) or (E)(3)(d) of this section or pursuant to any other
provision of law for the violation of division (C) of this section, if as a
part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, the offender also
shall be sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; and
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H))
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 135.15  INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY; INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   Interference with custody.
      (1)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section from
the parent, guardian or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1)
(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section:
         (a)   A child under the age of 18, or a mentally or physically
disabled child under the age of 21;
         (b)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent,
unruly, neglected, abused or dependent children; and
         (c)   A person committed by law to an institution for the mentally ill
or mentally disabled.
      (2)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department or institution without legal consent.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking
under division (A)(1)(a) of this section that the actor reasonably believed
that his or her conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety.
It is an affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division
(A)(1) of this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law
enforcement or judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or
committed person came under his or her shelter, protection or influence.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with
custody.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (A)(4)(a), a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If
the child who is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)(a) is removed
from the state or if the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the child who is the subject of a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) suffers physical harm as a result of the
violation, a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   A violation of division (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   A violation of division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Each day of a violation of division (A)(2) is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
   (B)   Interference with support orders.
      (1)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence
against another person, shall interfere with the other person’s initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07 or
3113.31.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of interfering with an
action to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this division (B) or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or
modify a support order is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2919.231)
§ 135.16  DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211 or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, and a violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER.  Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender; or
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE.  Means a person who is living or has lived
with the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
(R.C. § 2919.25)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
   Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider,
bail, see R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.17  HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, HAZING means doing any act or coercing
another, including the victim, to do any act of initiation into any student or
other organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental
or physical harm to any person.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee or faculty member of any primary,
secondary or post-secondary school or of any other educational institution,
public or private, shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of hazing, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 135.18  CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   No person, including a parent, guardian or other custodian of a child,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child, as defined in R.C. §
2151.022, or a delinquent child, as defined in R.C. § 2152.02;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.022, or a delinquent
child, as defined in R.C. § 2152.02; or
      (3)   If the person is the parent, guardian or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of a violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24)
Statutory reference:
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
§ 135.19  FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON.
   (A)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods or service that is
necessary to maintain the health or safety of the functionally impaired person
when this failure results in physical harm or serious physical harm to the
functionally impaired person.
   (B)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods or service that is
necessary to maintain the health or safety of the functionally impaired person
when this failure results in serious physical harm to the functionally impaired
person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender’s
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (A) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the second degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender’s
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CARETAKER.  Means a person who assumes the duty to provide for the care
and protection of a functionally impaired person on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The term
does not include a person who owns, operates or administers, or who is an agent
or employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON.  Means any person who has a physical or
mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for his or her own
care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for his or her own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10)
§ 135.20  PATIENT ABUSE OR NEGLECT; PATIENT ENDANGERMENT; EXCEPTIONS; FALSE
STATEMENTS; RETALIATION.
   (A)   Definitions.  As used in this section:
      ABUSE.  Means knowingly causing physical harm or recklessly causing
serious physical harm to a person by physical contact with the person or by the
inappropriate use of a physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
on the person.
      CARE FACILITY.  Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any “home” as defined in R.C. § 3721.10.
         (b)   Any “residential facility” as defined in R.C. § 5119.34 or
5123.19.
         (c)   Any institution or facility operated or provided by the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or by the Department of
Developmental Disabilities pursuant to R.C. §§ 5119.14 and 5123.03.
         (d)   Any unit of any hospital, as defined in R.C. § 3701.01, that
provided the same services as a nursing home, as defined in R.C. § 3721.01; or
         (e)   Any institution, residence or facility that provides, for a
period of more than 24 hours, whether for consideration or not, accommodations
to one individual or two unrelated individuals who are dependent upon the
services of others.
      GROSS NEGLECT.  Means knowingly failing to provide a person with any
treatment, care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or
safety of the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the
person.
      INAPPROPRIATE USE OF A PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL RESTRAINT, MEDICATION OR
ISOLATION.  Means the use of physical or chemical restraint, medication or
isolation as punishment, for staff convenience, excessively, as a substitute
for treatment, or in quantities that preclude habilitation and treatment.
      NEGLECT.  Means recklessly failing to provide a person with any
treatment, care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or
safety of the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the
person.
(R.C. § 2903.33)
   (B)   Patient abuse or neglect; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   No person who owns, operates or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of a care facility shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Commit abuse against a resident or patient of the facility;
         (b)   Commit gross neglect against a resident or patient of the
facility; or
         (c)   Commit neglect against a resident or patient of the facility.
      (2)   (a)   A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
denomination, shall not be considered neglectful under division (B)(1)(c) of
this section for that reason alone.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of gross neglect or
neglect under this section that the actor’s conduct was committed in good faith
solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person with
supervisory authority over the actor.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) is guilty of patient
abuse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(b) is guilty of gross patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(c) is guilty of patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.34)
   (C)   Patient endangerment; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   As used in division (C) of this section:
         DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED PERSON.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5123.01.
         MENTALLY RETARDED PERSON.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5123.01.
         MR/DD CARETAKER.  Means any MR/DD employee or any person who assumes
the duty to provide for the care and protection of a mentally retarded person
or a developmentally disabled person on a voluntary basis, by contract, through
receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a family
relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The term
includes a person who is an employee of a care facility and a person who is an
employee of an entity under contract with a provider. The term does not include
a person who owns, operates or administers a care facility or who is an agent
of a care facility unless that person also personally provides care to persons
with mental retardation or a developmental disability.
         MR/DD EMPLOYEE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5123.50.
      (2)   No MR/DD caretaker shall create a substantial risk to the health or
safety of a mentally retarded person or a developmentally disabled person. An
MR/DD caretaker does not create a substantial risk to the health or safety of a
mentally retarded person or a developmentally disabled person under this
division (C) when the MR/DD caretaker treats a physical or mental illness or
defect of the mentally retarded person or developmentally disabled person by
spiritual means through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a
recognized religious body.
      (3)   No person who owns, operates or administers a care facility or who
is an agent of a care facility shall condone, or knowingly permit, any conduct
by an MR/DD caretaker who is employed by or under the control of the owner,
operator, administrator or agent that is in violation of division (C)(2) of
this section and that involves a mentally retarded person or a developmentally
disabled person who is under the care of the owner, operator, administrator or
agent. A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious denomination,
shall not be considered endangered under this division (C) for that reason
alone.
      (4)   (a)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section that the actor’s conduct was
committed in good faith solely because the actor was ordered to commit the
conduct by a person to whom one of the following applies:
            1.   The person has supervisory authority over the actor; or
            2.   The person has authority over the actor’s conduct pursuant to
a contract for the provision of services.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the person who owns, operates or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility and who is
charged with the violation is following the individual service plan for the
involved mentally retarded person or a developmentally disabled person or that
the admission, discharge and transfer rule set forth in the Ohio Administrative
Code is being followed.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the actor did not have readily available a
means to prevent either the harm to the person with mental retardation or a
developmental disability or the death of such a person and the actor took
reasonable steps to summon aid.
      (5)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5)(b) or (C)(5)(c) of this
section, whoever violates division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section is guilty
of patient endangerment, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded
guilty to, a violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, patient endangerment is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the person
with mental retardation or a developmental disability, patient endangerment is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.341)
   (D)   False statements.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly
swear or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, alleging a
violation of division (B) of this section when the statement is made with
purpose to incriminate another.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of filing a false
patient abuse or neglect complaint, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.35)
   (E)   Retaliation against person reporting patient abuse or neglect.  No
care facility shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate
against any person solely because such person, in good faith, filed a
complaint, affidavit or other document alleging a violation of division (B) of
this section or a violation of R.C. § 2903.34.
(R.C. § 2903.36)
Statutory reference:
   License revocation for felony violations, see R.C. § 2903.37
§ 135.21  INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF PERSON TO ENGAGE IN HOUSING TRANSACTIONS
BECAUSE OF RACE, RELIGION OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations;
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section; or
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03)
§ 135.22  ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall violate R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06 or 2909.07,
or R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5), by reason of the race, color,
religion or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12)
§ 135.23  VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI-STALKING
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
R.C. § 2919.26 or R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214; or
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded guilty to
or been adjudicated a delinquent child for a violation of a protection order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or 2903.214, two or more violations
of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22 or 2911.211, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement, or one or more violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division (B) that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device. If the court
determines that the offender is indigent and subject to the maximum amount
allowable and the rules promulgated by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2903.214, the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device and
the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device may be paid out of
funds from the Reparations Fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191. The total
amount paid from the Reparations Fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191 for
electronic monitoring under R.C. §§ 2151.34, 2903.214 and 2919.27 shall not
exceed $300,000 per year.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. § 2265(c).
   (D)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER
STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of
another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27)
§ 135.24  ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection; or
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (A)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Adulteration of food generally, see R.C. § 3715.59
§ 135.25  ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES OR OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS;
TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes or other tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         CHILD.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
         CIGARETTE.  Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         DISTRIBUTE.  Means to furnish, give or provide cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of
the cigarettes, other tobacco products or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         PROOF OF AGE.  Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s
license, a military identification card, a passport or an identification card
issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 through 4507.52 that shows that a person is 18
years of age or older.
         VENDING MACHINE.  Has the same meaning as “Coin Machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products or any papers used to roll cigarettes, no
agent, employee or representative of a manufacturer, producer, distributor,
wholesaler or retailer of cigarettes, other tobacco products or papers used to
roll cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Give, sell or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products or papers used to roll cigarettes to any child;
         (b)   Give away, sell or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco products
or papers used to roll cigarettes in any place that does not have posted in a
conspicuous place a sign stating that giving, selling or otherwise distributing
cigarettes, other tobacco products or papers used to roll cigarettes to a
person under 18 years of age is prohibited by law;
         (c)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age
or other identification of any child with purpose to obtain cigarettes, other
tobacco products or papers used to roll cigarettes for that child;
         (d)   Manufacture, sell or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less that six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
or
         (e)   Sell cigarettes in a smaller quantity than that placed in the
pack or other container by the manufacturer.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes or other tobacco
products by or from a vending machine except in the following locations:
         (a)   An area within a factory, business, office or other place not
open to the general public;
         (b)   An area to which children are not generally permitted access;
and
         (c)   Any other place not identified in division (A)(3)(a) or (A)(3)
(b) of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes and other tobacco product
purchases from the vending machine will be readily observed by the person who
owns or operates the place, or an employee of that person. For the purpose of
this section, a vending machine located in any unmonitored area, including an
unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway or outer waiting area shall not be
considered located within the immediate vicinity, plain view and control of the
person who owns or operates the place, or an employee of that person; and
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section:
         (a)   The child was accompanied by a parent, spouse who is 18 years of
age or older or legal guardian of the child; and
         (b)   The person who gave, sold or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products or papers used to roll cigarettes to a child under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section is a parent, spouse who is 18 years of age or older
or legal guardian of the child.
      (5)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a child cigarettes,
other tobacco products or papers used to roll cigarettes while the child is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The parent, guardian or legal custodian of the child has
consented in writing to the child participating in the research protocol;
         (b)   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved of the research protocol; and
         (c)   The child is participating in the research protocol at the
facility or location specified in the research protocol.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d) or
(A)(2)(e) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of illegal distribution of
cigarettes or other tobacco products, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(2)
(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d), (A)(2)(e) or (A)(3) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal distribution
of cigarettes or other tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(c) of this section is guilty of
permitting children to use cigarettes or other tobacco products, a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a
violation of division (A)(2)(c) or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, permitting children to use cigarettes or other tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (7)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products or papers used to roll
cigarettes that are given, sold or otherwise distributed to a child in
violation of this division (A) and that are used, possessed, purchased or
received by a child in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and
forfeiture as contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)
   (B)   Tobacco product transaction scan.
      (1)   As used in this division (B) and division (C) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER.  Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes or other tobacco products from a
seller, agent or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD.  Means an identification card issued under R.C.
§§ 4507.50 through 4507.52.
         SELLER.  Means a seller of cigarettes or other tobacco products and
includes any person whose gift of or other distribution of cigarettes or other
tobacco products is subject to the prohibitions of division (A) of this
section.
         TRANSACTION SCAN.  Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes or
other tobacco products.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE.  Means any commercial device or combination
of devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes or other tobacco products.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away or otherwise distribute any cigarettes or
other tobacco products to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away or
otherwise distributing cigarettes or other tobacco products to the person
presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (B) and division (C) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder; or
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (B)(4)(a) of this section, except for
purposes of division (C) of this section.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (C) of this section
or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) or division (C) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away or other distribution of cigarettes or other
tobacco products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product transaction scan, and the
court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each
violation. The Clerk of the court shall pay each collected civil penalty to the
County Treasurer for deposit into the county treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021)
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (A) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes or other tobacco products
is an element of the alleged violation, if the seller, agent or employee raises
and proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes or
other tobacco products presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card;
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid; and
         (c)   The cigarettes or other tobacco products were sold, given away
or otherwise distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the
identification presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (C)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (A) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (A) of this
section. For purposes of division (C)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away or otherwise distributes cigarettes or other tobacco
products is 18 years of age or older; and
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (C)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
Deputy Registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022)
   (D)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.  Means a person who is:
            1.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. § 5743.15;
            2.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
            3.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in § 5702 of the
Internal Revenue Code;
            4.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
            5.   An officer, employee or agent of the federal government or of
this state acting in the person’s official capacity;
            6.   A department, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision
of the federal government or of this state; and
            7.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by the
Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
         MOTOR CARRIER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this division (D) is to prevent the sale of
cigarettes to minors and to ensure compliance with the Master Settlement
Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes to any
person in this municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco
products.
         (b)   No motor carrier or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes to any person in this municipality that the carrier or other person
reasonably believes is not an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If
cigarettes are transported to a home or residence, it shall be presumed that
the motor carrier or other person knew that the person to whom the cigarettes
were delivered was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes who ships
or causes to be shipped cigarettes to any person in this municipality in any
container or wrapping other than the original container or wrapping of the
cigarettes shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of the container
or wrapping in which the cigarettes are shipped with the words “cigarettes.”
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (D)(3)(a), (D)(3)(b) or (D)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 2927.023)
§ 135.26  NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility;
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for the mentally disabled and the mentally ill; university
and college buildings, except rooms within those buildings used primarily as
the residences of students or other persons affiliated with the university or
college; office buildings; libraries; museums; and vehicles used in public
transportation. That portion of a building or other enclosed structure that is
owned by the state, a state agency or a political subdivision, and that is used
primarily as a food service establishment, is not a PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY;
and
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a PLACE OF PUBLIC
ASSEMBLY if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafés,
cafeterias or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its legislative
authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in division (A)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area.
In places included in division (A)(2) of this section which are also included
in division (A)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate
the area in places in division (A)(2) of this section shall designate the no
smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly
visible and that state “no smoking.” No person shall remove signs from areas
designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031)
§ 135.27  SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that he or
she is suffering from a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to
take reasonable measures to prevent exposing himself or herself to other
persons, except when seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom he or she knows or
has reasonable cause to believe is suffering from a dangerous, contagious
disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to protect others
from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities of the
existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Contagion and quarantine, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
   Power to prevent contagious diseases, see R.C. § 715.37
§ 135.28  ABUSE OF A CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of abuse of a
corpse, a misdemeanor of the second degree. Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.01)
§ 135.29  UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance or
combination content of the bodily substance; or
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (B)(1)(b) of this
section do not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person
as described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege”
set forth in R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(C), unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially equivalent state
law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15)
CHAPTER 136:  OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Falsification
   
136.03   Compounding a crime
   
136.04   Failure to report a crime
   
136.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
   
136.06   Obstructing official business
   
136.07   Obstructing justice
   
136.08   Resisting arrest
   
136.09   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.10   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
   
136.11   Dereliction of duty
   
136.12   Interfering with civil rights
   
136.13   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or other specified governmental facilities
   
136.14   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
136.15   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
   
136.16   Disclosure of confidential peace officer information
   
136.17   Intimidation of crime victim or witness
   
136.18   Using sham legal process
   
136.19   Making false allegation of peace officer misconduct
   
136.20   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
136.21   Failure to disclose personal information
Cross-reference:
   Failure to comply with order or signal of a police officer, see §
70.02
Statutory reference:
   Escape from detention, see R.C. § 2921.34
   Harassment by inmates by causing or attempting to cause contact with blood,
semen, urine, feces or other bodily substance; knowledge of AIDS, hepatitis or
tuberculosis infection; felony offenses, see R.C. § 2921.38
§ 136.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   CONTRIBUTION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION.  Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in definition,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail
who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
the term includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from the
work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY.  Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING.  Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary or other person taking testimony or a deposition
in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL.  Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL PARTY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL.  Any elected or appointed officer, employee or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official;
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor or consultant; or
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this definition if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT.  Includes but is not limited to a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01)
§ 136.02  FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding;
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another;
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function;
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury;
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release or provider agreement;
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths;
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law;
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment;
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense;
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including but not limited to an application,
petition, complaint or other pleading, or an inventory, account or report;
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law;
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity;
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder or the Clerk of a court
of record;
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213; or
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13) or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(F)(1), falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document with the purpose to mislead a peace officer upon the request of a
peace officer for proof of financial responsibility made in accordance with
R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102)
§ 136.03  COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2) or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim; and
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21)
§ 136.04  FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person who is a physician, limited practitioner, nurse or
other person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall negligently fail to
report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab wound that the person
treated or observed, or any serious physical harm to other persons that the
person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from an offense of
violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers a body or acquires the first knowledge of the
death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
whom the person knows to be treating the deceased for a condition from which
death at that time would not be unexpected, or to a law enforcement officer,
ambulance service, emergency squad or the coroner in a political subdivision in
which the body is discovered, the death is believed to have occurred, or
knowledge concerning the death is obtained.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air; or
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death.
      (2)   No physician, nurse or limited practitioner who, outside a
hospital, sanitarium or other medical facility, attends or treats a person who
has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent, malicious
or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately to the
local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in which the
person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent or other person in charge of a hospital,
sanitarium or other medical facility in which a person is attended or treated
for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary device, or
that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent, malicious or
criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately to the local
arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in which the person
is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (E)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding
evidence regarding a person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in
any judicial proceeding resulting from a report submitted pursuant to division
(E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, registered or licensed practical nurse, psychologist, social
worker, independent social worker, social work assistant, professional clinical
counselor or professional counselor who knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that a patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence as
defined in R.C. § 3113.31 shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for
it in the patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege
shall not be a ground for excluding any information regarding the report
containing the knowledge or belief noted pursuant to division (F)(1), and the
information may be admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of
Evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client, doctor and patient, licensed psychologist or licensed
school psychologist and client, member of the clergy or rabbi or minister or
priest and any person communicating information confidentially to the member of
the clergy, rabbi, minister or priest for a religious counseling purpose in the
professional character of the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister or priest,
husband and wife or a communications assistant and those who are a party to a
telecommunications relay service call;
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family;
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12;
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to him or her in his or her capacity as such by a person
seeking his or her aid or counsel;
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
of treatment or services for drug dependent persons or persons in danger of
drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a hospital,
clinic, person, agency or services provider certified pursuant to R.C. §
5119.36; or
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are violations of
R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.05, or to victims of felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this division (G), COUNSELING
SERVICES include services provided in an informal setting by a person who, by
education or experience, is competent to provide such services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2921.22)
§ 136.05  FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23)
§ 136.06  OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), obstructing
official business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this
section creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official
business is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31)
§ 136.07  OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child;
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension;
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension;
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence;
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person; or
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      ACT OF TERRORISM.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      CHILD.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32)
§ 136.08  RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2911.01
§ 136.09  HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest;
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees;
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body, commission
or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder;
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected; or
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested;
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization; and
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved;
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved;
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions; and
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT.  Means any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions or any agency or instrumentality of either; or
         (b)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42)
Statutory reference:
   Assistants and employees of Prosecutors, Law Directors and Solicitors, see
R.C. § 2921.421
§ 136.10  SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I) or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation; or
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment or agency; or
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment or agency; or
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment or position of trust in
this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43)
§ 136.11  DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay; or
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary;
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter and medical attention;
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another;
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape; or
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the legislative
authority for the use in any one year of the department, agency or institution
with which the public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes an officer or
employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08.
(R.C. § 2921.44)
§ 136.12  INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of his or her office, employment or
authority, shall knowingly deprive, conspire or attempt to deprive any person
of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45)
§ 136.13  ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011; or
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building or other place under the control of the Department
of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental
Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services or the Department of
Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building or other
place and in accordance with the written rules of the detention facility or the
institution, office building or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (A) of this section.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio or other
electronic communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building or other place to deliver the item
to the confined person or the patient; or
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any item listed in division
(A)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(R.C. § 2921.37)
Cross-reference:
   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety
zone, see §
137.11
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, see §
137.12
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance in
a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 136.14  FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14)
§ 136.15  ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted; or
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area; or
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse; or
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct is
assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance of the officer’s duties
or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog is assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired,
or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused or
attempted; or
      (2)   The dog is not assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing
impaired, or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused
or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog is an
assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person who is
being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a manner that does any of the
following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area; or
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person.
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog; or
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person or that the person knows is an assistance dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(E), assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If
the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse other than
death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division
(E), harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If
the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(E), assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division (E),
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Ohio Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C) or (D)
of this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the Police Department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog regarding a violation
of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person assisted or
served by the assistance dog; and
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the police dog or
horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation or resulted
in serious physical harm to that dog or horse to the extent that the dog or
horse needs to be replaced on either a temporary or a permanent basis, the cost
of replacing that dog or horse and of any further training of a new police dog
or horse or a new assistance dog by a law enforcement officer or by the blind,
deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person assisted or served by the
assistance dog, which replacement or training is required because of the death
of or the serious physical harm to the dog or horse that was the subject of the
violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      BLIND.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM.  Means any injury, illness or other psychological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE.  Means a dog or horse that has been trained and may
be used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM.  Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming; or
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321)
§ 136.16  DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL PEACE OFFICER INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
Clerk’s office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting
attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee or youth
services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not prohibit a peace officer, parole
officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional
employee or youth services employee from disclosing the peace officer’s, parole
officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s or youth services employee’s own home address, and does
not apply to any person who discloses the home address of a peace officer,
parole officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney,
correctional employee or youth services employee pursuant to a court-ordered
disclosure under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee or
youth services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case, if
the court determines after a written request for the disclosure that good cause
exists for disclosing the home address of the peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee or
youth services employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of disclosure
of confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2921.24)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor’s
court, shall order a peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting attorney,
assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee or youth services
employee who is a witness in a criminal case, to disclose the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s or youth services employee’s home address during the
peace officer’s, parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant
prosecuting attorney’s, correctional employee’s or youth services employee’s
examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the defendant
has a right to the disclosure.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
      YOUTH SERVICES EMPLOYEE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
(R.C. § 2921.25)
§ 136.17  INTIMIDATION OF CRIME VICTIM OR WITNESS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly attempt to intimidate or hinder the victim
of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or prosecution of criminal charges
or a delinquent child action or proceeding, and no person shall knowingly
attempt to intimidate a witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of
the person being a witness to that act.
   (B)   No person, knowingly and by force or by unlawful threat of harm to any
person or property or by unlawful threat to commit any offense or calumny
against any person, shall attempt to influence, intimidate or hinder any of the
following persons:
      (1)   The victim of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or
prosecution of criminal charges or a delinquent child action or proceeding;
      (2)   A witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of the person
being a witness to that act; or
      (3)   An attorney by reason of the attorney’s involvement in any criminal
or delinquent child action or proceeding.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
attempting to resolve a dispute pertaining to the alleged commission of a
criminal offense, either prior to or subsequent to the filing of a complaint,
indictment or information by participating in the arbitration, mediation,
compromise, settlement or conciliation of that dispute pursuant to an
authorization for arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or
conciliation of a dispute of that nature that is conferred by any of the
following:
      (1)   A section of the Ohio Revised Code;
      (2)   The Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Superintendence for
Municipal Courts and County Courts, the Rules of Superintendence for Courts of
Common Pleas, or another rule adopted by the Ohio Supreme Court in accordance
with Ohio Constitution, Article IV, § 5;
      (3)   A local rule of court, including but not limited to a local rule of
court that relates to alternative dispute resolution or other case management
programs and that authorizes the referral of disputes pertaining to the alleged
commission of certain types of criminal offenses to appropriate and available
arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or other conciliation programs;
or
      (4)   The order of a judge of a municipal court, county court or court of
common pleas.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of intimidation of an
attorney, victim or witness in a criminal case. A violation of division (A) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITNESS means any person who has or claims to
have knowledge concerning a fact or facts concerning a criminal or delinquent
act, whether or not criminal or delinquent child charges are actually filed.
(R.C. § 2921.04)
Statutory reference:
   Retaliation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2921.05
§ 136.18  USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      LAWFULLY ISSUED.  Means adopted, issued or rendered in accordance with
the United States Constitution, the Constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.  Means municipal corporations, townships,
counties, school districts and all other bodies corporate and politic that are
organized under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only
in geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.  Means an instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   It is not lawfully issued;
         (b)   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment or order of a court, a law
enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body;
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers or privileges of any person or
property; and
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial or sentencing of any person or property.
         (c)   It is designed to make another person believe that it is
lawfully issued.
      STATE.  Means a state of the United States, including without limitation
the state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions and other
instrumentalities of the state. The term does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute or otherwise use sham
legal process;
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person;
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process; or
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (B)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see R.C. § 2921.52(E)
§ 136.19  MAKING FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of making a
false allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15)
§ 136.20  MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the telephone number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee; or
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.32(E) - (G))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B))
§ 136.21  FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed or is about to commit a
criminal offense; or
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section; or
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address or date of birth. Nothing in
division (A) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
CHAPTER 137:  WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Possessing criminal tools
   
137.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.08   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
   
137.09   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons
   
137.10   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
   
137.11   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
   
137.12   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
   
137.13   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.14   Defaced firearms
   
137.15   Throwing or shooting missiles
Cross-reference:
   Conveyance into certain facilities, see §
136.13
   Injury to persons by hunters, see §
135.05
   Injury to property by hunters, see §
131.24
   Using weapons to endanger or damage aircraft or airport operations, see §
131.05
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM.  Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger. The term also
means any semi-automatic firearm designed or specially adapted to fire more
than 31 cartridges without reloading, other than a firearm chambering only .22
caliber short, long or long-rifle cartridges.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE.  A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN.
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. §
2923.125 or R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued
by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         (a)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun or ballistic knife;
         (b)   Any explosive device or incendiary device;
         (c)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite,
TNT, picric acid and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol,
pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol and other high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium
nitrate, liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power
to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in
mining, quarrying, excavating or demolitions;
         (d)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon;
         (e)   Any firearm muffler or silencer; or
         (f)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use
in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder;
         (b)   Any pistol, rifle or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm;
         (c)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder;
         (d)   Black powder, priming quills and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)(c) of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small-arms ammunition;
         (e)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot
readily be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy,
souvenir, curio or museum piece; or
         (f)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act.
   DEADLY WEAPON.  Any instrument, device or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried or
used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE.  Any chemical compound, mixture or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3 or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include fireworks, as
defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting the
definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured, sold,
possessed, transported, stored or used in any activity described in R.C. §
3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE.  Any device designed or specially adapted to cause
physical harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting
of an explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. The term
includes without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device, any
blasting cap or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure
vessel that has been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. The term
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including
but not limited to the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand; or
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE.  Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM.  A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall.
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM.  Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a
suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   ZIP-GUN.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture;
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm; or
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signaling device or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11)
§ 137.02  CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance; or
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, and is
carrying a concealed handgun, fail to promptly inform any law enforcement
officer who approaches the person after the person has been stopped that the
person has been issued a concealed handgun license and that the person then is
carrying a concealed handgun;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer; or
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including but not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person; or
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who,
at the time of the alleged carrying or possession of a handgun, is carrying a
valid concealed handgun license, unless the person knowingly is in a place
described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed;
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed; or
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (E)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall be
required to obtain a  concealed handgun license as a condition for the
dismissal of the charge.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division (F)(1) or division (F)
(2) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division (F)(1) or division (F)(2) of this section, if the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of this section or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Except
as otherwise provided in division (F)(2) of this section, if the offense is
committed aboard an aircraft, or with purpose to carry a concealed weapon
aboard an aircraft, regardless of the weapon involved, carrying concealed
weapons in violation of division (A) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section promptly produces a valid concealed handgun license, and if at the
time of the violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C.
§ 2923.126(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that
division. If the person is not able to promptly produce any concealed handgun
license and if the person is not in a place described in that section, the
officer may arrest the person for a violation of that division, and the
offender shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within ten days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer; and
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest;
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71;
and
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If neither division (F)(2)(a) nor (F)(2)(b) of this section
applies, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) of this section.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (F), carrying
concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and, in addition to any other penalty or
sanction imposed for a violation of division (B)(1) of this section, the
offender’s concealed handgun license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. §
2923.128(A)(2). If, at the time of the stop of the offender for a law
enforcement purpose that was the basis of the violation, any law enforcement
officer involved with the stop had actual knowledge that the offender has been
issued a concealed handgun license, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (B)(1) of this section is a minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s
concealed handgun license shall not be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)
(2).
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division (G), R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
(R.C. § 2923.12)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through County Sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance in
a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 137.03  USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15)
§ 137.04  IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box or case;
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle;
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose; or
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a
combination of them; or
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division (D)
is the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license, who is the
driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle that is stopped as a result of a
traffic stop or a stop for another law enforcement purpose or is the driver or
an occupant of a commercial motor vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the
motor carrier enforcement unit for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and
who is transporting or has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial
motor vehicle in any manner, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to promptly inform any law enforcement officer who approaches
the vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a concealed handgun
license and that the person then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the motor
vehicle;
      (2)   Fail to promptly inform the employee of the unit who approaches the
vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a concealed handgun
license and that the person then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the
commercial motor vehicle;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer; or
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C) and (E) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s duties; or
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful;
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture;
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property; and
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation; or
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid electric-powered all-purpose
vehicle permit issued under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of
Wildlife;
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird;
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary electric-
powered all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 or a motor vehicle
that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of
Wildlife, provided that the road is identified by an electric-powered all-
purpose vehicle sign; and
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation; or
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle;
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture;
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property; and
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is carrying a
valid concealed handgun; and
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid electric-powered all-purpose
vehicle permit issued under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of
Wildlife;
         (b)   The person is on or in an electric-powered all-purpose vehicle
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season
for a wild quadruped or game bird; and
         (c)   The person is on or in an electric-powered all-purpose vehicle
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 or a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that
is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife, provided that the road is
identified by an electric-powered all-purpose vehicle sign.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or
other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (B), (C)
or (D) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011 and if the conduct that was the basis of
the violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on
or after September 30, 2011, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.37 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011 and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or
(C) of this section on or after September 30, 2011 due to the application of
division (F)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.37 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. Violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division (C)
of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division
(D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law
and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person’s person, it is also a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Except as otherwise
provided in this division (I), a violation of division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree, and, in addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for the violation, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). If at the time of
the stop of the offender for a traffic stop, for another law enforcement
purpose, or for a purpose defined in R.C. § 5503.34 that was the basis of the
violation any law enforcement officer involved with the stop or the employee of
the motor carrier enforcement unit who made the stop had actual knowledge of
the offender’s status as a licensee, a violation of division (E)(1) or (E)(2)
of this section is a minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall not be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation
of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation of division (E)(3) or
(E)(5) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun license shall be
suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of division (B) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division
(J), R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   As used in this section:
      AGRICULTURE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      HIGHWAY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT.  Means the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      STREET.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      TENANT.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED. 
         (a)   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division (d) of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (a)2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         (c)   For the purposes of divisions (a) and (b) of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper- clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (d)   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon
is uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (L)   Divisions (a) and (b) of the definition of “unloaded” in division (K)
of this section do not affect the authority of a person who is carrying a valid
concealed handgun license to have one or more magazines or speed loaders
containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle, without being transported as
described in those divisions, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm, other
than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any other
provision of this chapter. A person who is carrying a valid concealed handgun
license may have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition
anywhere in a vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is
in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted
under any provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16)
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05  POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (B)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use;
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use; and
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), possessing criminal tools is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24)
§ 137.06  FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person; or
      (2)   To ensure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19)
§ 137.07  UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Manufacture, possess for sale, sell or furnish to any person other
than a law enforcement agency for authorized use in police work, any brass
knuckles, cestus, billy, blackjack, sandbag, switchblade knife, springblade
knife, gravity knife or similar weapon;
      (4)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license or
permit showing him or her to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of
the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the Sheriff of
the county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place; or
      (5)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (A)(3) or
(A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of
division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2923.20)
§ 137.08  UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division (B) does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training; or
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.09  POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms on or near prohibited premises.  No person shall
do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (B)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church or inhabited dwelling, the property of another or a
charitable institution; or
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (B)   Application of division (A).
      (1)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on his or her own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on his or her
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (C)   Penalty for violation of division (A). Whoever violates division (A)
of this section is guilty of discharge of a firearm on or near prohibited
premises. A violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division (A)(3) shall be
punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree; and
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(A)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162)
   (D)   Hunting near township park.
      (1)   No person shall hunt, shoot or kill game within one-half mile of a
township park unless the Board of Township Park Commissioners has granted
permission to kill game not desired within the limits prohibited by this
division (D).
(R.C. § 3773.06)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3773.99(A))
   (E)   Unlawful discharge.  No person shall discharge any BB gun, air gun or
firearm, or make use of any sling, bow and arrow or crossbow, within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
   (F)   Unlawful pointing or aiming.  No person shall, intentionally and
without malice, point or aim any BB gun, air gun or firearm, or any sling, bow
and arrow or crossbow at or toward another.
   (G)   Penalty for violations of division (E) or (F).  Whoever violates
division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
   (H)   Exceptions.  This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation’s armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials or
other government officials in the proper enforcement of the law, or to any
person in the proper exercise of the right of self defense, or to any person
otherwise lawfully permitted by proper federal, state or local authorities to
discharge a BB gun, air gun or firearm, or to use a sling, bow and arrow or
crossbow in a manner contrary to the provisions of this section. Division (E)
of this section does not extend to cases in which BB guns, air guns or
firearms, or slings, bows and arrows or crossbows are used in the confines of
structures or used within the confines of a person’s own property, provided
such use is under adult supervision and is approved by the municipality.
   (I)   Nuisance wildlife.  Nothing in this section or elsewhere in the code
of ordinances of the village shall prohibit the use of firearms in the control
and removal of nuisance wildlife on land for which an applicant has a valid
current deer damage control permit issued by the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources.
(Ord. 1222-11, passed 7-11-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly discharging firearm at or into habitation or school safety zone,
felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.161
§ 137.10  LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   Upon application to the Sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has his or her
principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified in division
(B) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued to qualified
applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarry workers, mine operators and other
persons regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business,
with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried
or used in the course of such business;
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them;
      (3)   Scientists, engineers and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction;
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of his or her duties; and
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (B)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the Sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has his or her
principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied by an
application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if he or she is a natural person, or the name, address and principal
place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation;
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested;
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried and used;
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used; and
      (5)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (C)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person;
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property; and
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (D)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage or use
of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (E)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of a consumable dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify
an expiration date, but the issuing authority may specify such expiration date,
not earlier than one year from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable
in view of the nature of the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the
license is issued.
   (F)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only within
the territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (G)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(4) and (A)(5) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18)
§ 137.11  POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired; and
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry deadly
weapons or dangerous ordnance and is acting within the scope of the officer’s,
agent’s or employee’s duties, a security officer employed by a board of
education or governing body of a school during the time that the security
officer is on duty pursuant to that contract of employment, or any other person
who has written authorization from the board of education or governing body of
a school to convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance into a school safety
zone or to possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in a school safety
zone and who conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in
accordance with that authorization; or
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
this division (B)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re-enactment
or other dramatic presentation, or a ROTC activity or another similar use of
the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity;
         (b)   The person is carrying a valid concealed handgun license.
         (c)   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B); and
         (d)   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) through (B)(10).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is carrying a valid concealed handgun license;
         (b)   The person is the driver or passenger in a motor vehicle and is
in the school safety zone while immediately in the process of picking up or
dropping off a child; and
         (c)   The person is not in violation of section R.C. § 2923.16.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division (C), illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (D)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the State Board of Education
prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall impose upon
the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary driver’s
license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit or probationary commercial driver’s license that
then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4) and shall
deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type during the
period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this state, the
court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident operating
privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (D)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (D)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (D)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (E)   As used in this section, OBJECT THAT IS INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A
FIREARM means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A) and (B)
§ 137.12  POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (A)   As used in this section, DETENTION and DETENTION FACILITY have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (B)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131)
Statutory reference:
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 137.13  CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (B)   Additional restrictions.  Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   (a)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. §
2923.125 shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has
been issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30
days after the licensee’s license expires during which the licensee’s license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§
         (b)   If a licensee is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as the result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose and if the licensee is transporting or has a loaded handgun
in the motor vehicle at that time, the licensee shall promptly inform any law
enforcement officer who approaches the vehicle while stopped that the licensee
has been issued a concealed handgun license and that the licensee currently
possesses or has a loaded handgun; the licensee shall not knowingly disregard
or fail to comply with lawful orders of a law enforcement officer given while
the motor vehicle is stopped, knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle
while stopped, or knowingly fail to keep the licensee’s hands in plain sight
after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped
and before the officer leaves, unless directed otherwise by a law enforcement
officer; and the licensee shall not knowingly have contact with the loaded
handgun by touching it with the licensee’s hands or fingers, in any manner in
violation of R.C. § 2923.16(E), after any law enforcement officer begins
approaching the licensee while stopped and before the officer leaves.
Additionally, if a licensee is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.04 and if the licensee is transporting
or has a loaded handgun in the commercial motor vehicle at that time, the
licensee shall promptly inform the employee of the unit who approaches the
vehicle while stopped that the licensee has been issued a concealed handgun
license and that the licensee currently possesses or has a loaded handgun; and
         (c)   If a licensee is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and if
the licensee is carrying a concealed handgun at the time the officer
approaches, the licensee shall promptly inform any law enforcement officer who
approaches the licensee while stopped that the licensee has been issued a
concealed handgun license and that the licensee currently is carrying a
concealed handgun; the licensee shall not knowingly disregard or fail to comply
with lawful orders of a law enforcement officer given while the licensee is
stopped or knowingly fail to keep the licensee’s hands in plain sight after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped and
before the officer leaves, unless directed otherwise by a law enforcement
officer; and the licensee shall not knowingly remove, attempt to remove, grasp
or hold the loaded handgun or knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by
touching it with the licensee’s hands or fingers, in any manner in violation of
R.C. § 2923.12(B), after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the
licensee while stopped and before the officer leaves.
      (2)   A valid license concealed handgun does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         (a)   A police station, Sheriff’s office or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation, a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse or other
detention facility, an airport passenger terminal or an institution that is
maintained, operated, managed and governed pursuant to R.C. § 5119.14 or R.C. §
5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located, in violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in a
locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing the
handgun in a locked motor vehicle;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   A child day-care center, a type A family day-care home or a type
B family day-care home, except that this division (B) does not prohibit a
licensee who resides in a type A family day-care home or a type B family day-
care home from carrying a concealed handgun at any time in any part of the home
that is not dedicated or used for day-care purposes, or from carrying a
concealed handgun in a part of the home that is dedicated or used for day-care
purposes at any time during which no children, other than children of that
licensee, are in the home;
         (h)   An aircraft that is in, or intended for operation in, foreign
air transportation, interstate air transportation, intrastate air
transportation or the transportation of mail by aircraft;
         (i)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) of this section; and
         (j)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly
was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the premises or
property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by the private
employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose. A private
employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death or
loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer. As used in this division (B), PRIVATE EMPLOYER includes a private
college, university or other institution of higher education.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division (B), POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2744.01.
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. of this section,
the owner or person in control of private land or premises, and a private
person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the state, the United States
or a political subdivision of the state or the United States, may post a sign
in a conspicuous location on that land or on those premises prohibiting persons
from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or onto that land or those
premises. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), a person who
knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature is guilty of criminal
trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that
nature and the posted land or premises primarily was a parking lot or other
parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal trespass in violation of
R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for
trespass based on the violation.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (B)(3)(c) of this section:
               LANDLORD.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5321.01, except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or
operated by a college or university.
               TENANT.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a concealed handgun license issued by another
state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a reciprocity
agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that
apply to a person who carries a license issued under that section.
      (5)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in
this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. §
2923.125. For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall
be considered to be a licensee in this state.
      (6)   (a)   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who carries a license issued under that section. For purposes of
reciprocity with other states, a qualified retired peace officer who possesses
a retired peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)
(b) of this section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued
pursuant to division (B)(6)(c) of this section shall be considered to be a
licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability;
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest;
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties; and
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)
(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division (B), a retired peace officer identification card
issued to a person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section may include the
firearms requalification certification described in division (B)(6)(c) of this
section, and if the identification card includes that certification, the
identification card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification
for the retired peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials
to active law enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply
with division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to
persons who retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who
satisfy the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of
this section, provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers
are stamped with the word “RETIRED.”
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (B)(6)(b) of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (B) of this section:
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE.  Means any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision; or
            2.   The office of a Deputy Registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform Deputy Registrar functions.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. Means a person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section;
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance; and
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD.  Means an identification
card that is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section to a person
who is a retired peace officer.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession.  Pursuant to R.C. §
2923.1212:
      (1)   The following persons, boards and entities, or designees, shall
post in the following locations a sign that contains a statement in
substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise authorized by law, pursuant
to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly possess, have under the
person’s control, convey or attempt to convey a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance onto these premises.”
         (a)   The Director of Public Safety or the person or board charged
with the erection, maintenance or repair of police stations, municipal jails
and the municipal courthouse and courtrooms in a conspicuous location at all
police stations, municipal jails and municipal courthouses and courtrooms;
         (b)   The Sheriff or Sheriff’s designee who has charge of the
Sheriff’s office in a conspicuous location in that office;
         (c)   The Superintendent of the State Highway Patrol or the
Superintendent’s designee in a conspicuous location at all state highway patrol
stations;
         (d)   Each Sheriff, Chief of Police or person in charge of every
county, multi-county, municipal, municipal-county or multi-county/municipal
jail or workhouse, community-based correctional facility, halfway house,
alternative residential facility or other local or state correctional
institution or detention facility within the state, or that person’s designee,
in a conspicuous location at that facility under that person’s charge;
         (e)   The board of trustees of a regional airport authority, chief
administrative officer of an airport facility, or other person in charge of an
airport facility in a conspicuous location at each airport facility under that
person’s control;
         (f)   The officer or officer’s designee who has charge of a courthouse
or the building or structure in which a courtroom is located in a conspicuous
location in that building or structure;
         (g)   The Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation or the Superintendent’s designee in a conspicuous location in all
premises controlled by that Bureau;
         (h)   The owner, administrator or operator of a child day-care center,
a type A family day-care home or a type B family day-care home; and
         (i)   The officer of this state or of a political subdivision of this
state, or the officer’s designee, who has charge of a building that is a
government facility of this state or the political subdivision of this state,
as defined in R.C. § 2923.126, and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to R.C. § 2923.126(B)(3).
      (2)   The following boards, bodies, and persons, or designees, shall post
in the following locations a sign that contains a statement in substantially
the following form: “Unless otherwise authorized by law, pursuant to R.C. §
2923.122, no person shall knowingly possess, have under the person’s control,
convey or attempt to convey a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance into a school
safety zone.”
         (a)   A board of education of a city, local, exempted village or joint
vocational school district or that board’s designee in a conspicuous location
in each building and on each parcel of real property owned or controlled by the
board;
         (b)   A governing body of a school for which the State Board of
Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07 or that body’s
designee in a conspicuous location in each building and on each parcel of real
property owned or controlled by the school; and
         (c)   The principal or chief administrative officer of a nonpublic
school in a conspicuous location on property owned or controlled by that
nonpublic school.
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
§ 137.14  DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number or other mark of identification on a
firearm; or
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number or other
mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed or
obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division (B)(1), defacing identification marks of a firearm is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section,
defacing identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)
(2), possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201)
§ 137.15  THROWING OR SHOOTING MISSILES.
   (A)   No person shall throw, shoot or propel an arrow, missile, pellet,
stone, metal or other similar substance capable of causing physical harm to
persons or property, in or on any public place, in or on the property of
another, or from any private property into or onto any public place or the
property of another. This section does not apply to supervised archery ranges
or instruction nor when otherwise lawfully authorized.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(1997 Code, § 137.11)
CHAPTER 138:  DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marihuana
   
138.03   Drug possession offenses
   
138.04   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.05   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.06   Illegal cultivation of marihuana
   
138.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
   
138.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.09   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.10   Nitrous oxide: improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
   
138.11   Laboratory report required
   
138.12   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.13   Use, possession or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.14   Controlled substance or prescription labels
   
138.15   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
   
138.16   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.17   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates
   
138.18   Pseudoephedrine sales
 
   
138.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Controlled substances, regulation of pharmacists and other professionals,
see R.C. Chapters 3719 and 4729
   Conviction of professionally licensed persons to be reported to licensing
board, see R.C. § 2925.38
   Criminal and civil forfeiture of property for felony drug abuse offenses,
see R.C. Chapter 2981
   Destruction of chemicals used to produce methamphetamine; preservation of
samples, see R.C. § 2925.52
   Driver’s license suspension after certain drug convictions, see R.C. §
4510.07
   Tampering with drugs, felony offense, see R.C. § 2925.24
§ 138.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER.  The direct application of a drug, whether by injection,
inhalation, ingestion or any other means to a person or an animal.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II or Schedule III, with the exception of controlled
substance analogs, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin and hashish and except as
provided in division (2) or (5) of this definition, whichever of the following
is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a
Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum
opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a
Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid amide,
or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of
a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of
phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal
drug abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any
amount of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance; or
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse control
laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a
Schedule V substance; or
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE.  A duly constituted and organized committee
of the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of
the state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, § 6 of the Rules
for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer or
derivative, or the base form of cocaine;
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer or derivative of ecgonine, or a salt
of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine; or
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE.  An offense is COMMITTED IN THE
VICINITY OF A JUVENILE if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of a
juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL.  An offense is COMMITTED IN THE
VICINITY OF A SCHOOL if the offender commits the offense on school premises, in
a school building or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  A drug, compound, mixture, preparation or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV or V of R.C. § 3719.41.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG.
      (1)   The phrase means, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition, a substance to which both of the following apply:
         (a)   The chemical structure of the substance is substantially similar
to the structure of a controlled substance in Schedule I or II; and
         (b)   One of the following applies regarding the substance:
            1.   The substance has a stimulant, depressant or hallucinogenic
effect on the central nervous system that is substantially similar to or
greater than the stimulant, depressant or hallucinogenic effect on the central
nervous system of a controlled substance in Schedule I or II; or
            2.   With respect to a particular person, that person represents or
intends the substance to have a stimulant, depressant or hallucinogenic effect
on the central nervous system that is substantially similar to or greater than
the stimulant, depressant or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous
system of a controlled substance in Schedule I or II.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following:
         (a)   A controlled substance;
         (b)   Any substance for which there is an approved new drug
application;
         (c)   With respect to a particular person, any substance if an
exemption is in effect for investigational use for that person pursuant to
federal law to the extent that conduct with respect to that substance is
pursuant to that exemption; or
         (d)   Any substance to the extent it is not intended for human
consumption before the exemption described in division (2)(c) of this
definition takes effect with respect to that substance.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 2925.03 or R.C. § 2925.11, a
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG, to the extent intended for human consumption,
shall be treated for purposes of any provision of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code as a controlled substance in Schedule I.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name or identifying mark;
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed or distributed by a person
other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed or distributed it;
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance; or
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE.  Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, is required to
bear a label containing the legend “Caution: Federal law prohibits dispensing
without a prescription” or “Caution: Federal law restricts this drug to use by
or on the order of a licensed veterinarian” or any similar restrictive
statement, or may be dispensed only upon a prescription; or
         (b)   Under R.C. Chapter 3715 or 3719, may be dispensed only upon a
prescription.
      (2)   Any drug that contains a Schedule V controlled substance and that
is exempt from R.C. Chapter 3719 or to which that chapter does not apply; or
      (3)   Any drug intended for administration by injection into the human
body other than through a natural orifice of the human body.
   DECEPTION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL.  The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE.  Means to sell, leave with, give away, dispose of or deliver.
   DISTRIBUTE.  Means to deal in, ship, transport or deliver, but does not
include administering or dispensing a drug.
   DRUG.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Any article recognized in the official United States pharmacopeia,
national formulary or any supplement intended for use in the diagnosis, cure,
mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease in humans or other animals;
      (2)   Any other article intended for use in the diagnosis, cure,
mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease in humans or other animals;
      (3)   Any article, other than food, intended to affect the structure or
any function of the body of humans or other animals; or
      (4)   Any article intended for use as a component of any article
specified in division (1), (2) or (3) above; but does not include devices or
their components, parts or accessories.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36 or 2925.37;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element; or
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2) or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG DEPENDENT PERSON.  Any person who, by reason of the use of any drug of
abuse, is physically and/or psychologically dependent upon the use of such drug
to the detriment of the person’s health or welfare.
   DRUG OF ABUSE.  Any controlled substance, any harmful intoxicant and any
dangerous drug, as defined in this section.
   FEDERAL DRUG ABUSE CONTROL LAWS.  The Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention
and Control Act of 1970, 21 U.S.C. §§ 801 et seq., as amended.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE.  Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT.  Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation or substance the gas, fumes or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent;
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant;
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant; or
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone; or
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH.  The resin or a preparation of the resin contained in marihuana,
whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid extract or liquid
distillate form.
   HYPODERMIC.  A hypodermic syringe or needle, or other instrument or device
for the injection of medication.
   JUVENILE.  A person under 18 years of age.
   LABORATORY.  A laboratory approved by the State Board of Pharmacy as proper
to be entrusted with the custody of controlled substances and the use of
controlled substances for scientific and clinical purposes and for purposes of
instruction.
   LAWFUL PRESCRIPTION.  A prescription that is issued for a legitimate medical
purpose by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs, that
is not altered or forged, and that was not obtained by means of deception or by
the commission of any theft offense.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS or PRESCRIBER. 
An individual who is authorized by law to prescribe drugs or dangerous drugs or
drug therapy related devices in the course of the individual’s professional
practice, including only the following:
      (1)   A dentist licensed under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (2)   A clinical nurse specialist, certified nurse-midwife, or certified
nurse practitioner who holds a certificate to prescribe issued under R.C. §
4723.48;
      (3)   An optometrist licensed under R.C. Chapter 4725 to practice
optometry under a therapeutic pharmaceutical agent’s certificate;
      (4)   A physician authorized under R.C. Chapter 4731 to practice medicine
and surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and
surgery;
      (5)   A physician assistant who holds a certificate to prescribe issued
under R.C. Chapter 4730; or
      (6)   A veterinarian licensed under R.C. Chapter 4741.
   L.S.D.  Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE.  To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER.  A person who manufactures a controlled substance, as
“manufacture” is defined by this section.
   MARIHUANA.  All parts of a plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing or
not, the seeds of a plant of that type; the resin extracted from a part of a
plant of that type; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture
or preparation of a plant of that type or of its seeds or resin. The term does
not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks,
oils or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature stalks, except the resin
extracted from the mature stalks, fiber, oil or cake or the sterilized seed of
the plant that is incapable of germination. The term does not include hashish.
   METHAMPHETAMINE.  Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine or any compound, mixture, preparation or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE.  Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; or
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER.  An order written on a form provided for that
purpose by the Director of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration,
under any laws of the United States making provision for the order, if the
order forms are authorized and required by federal law.
   PERSON.  Means any individual, corporation, government, governmental
subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association
or other legal entity.
   PHARMACIST.  A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
   PHARMACY.  Except when used in a context that refers to the practice of
pharmacy, means any area, room, rooms, place of business, department or portion
of any of the foregoing, where the practice of pharmacy is conducted.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION.  Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PRESCRIPTION.  A written, electronic or oral order for drugs or combination
or mixtures of drugs to be used by a particular individual or for treating a
particular animal, issued by a licensed health professional authorized to
prescribe drugs.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED.  A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE.  Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)(1)
through (W)(36) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has obtained a license as a manufacturer of controlled
substances or a wholesaler of controlled substances under R.C. Chapter 3719;
      (2)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (3)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (4)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (5)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (6)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (7)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, managing cosmetologist’s license, managing hair designer’s
license, managing manicurist’s license, managing esthetician’s license,
managing natural hair stylist’s license, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair
design instructor’s license, manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics
instructor’s license, natural hair style instructor’s license, independent
contractor’s license or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (9)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious intravenous sedation permit, a limited
resident’s license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license or
a dental hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (10)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (12)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (14)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (15)   A person licensed as a pharmacist, a pharmacy intern, a wholesale
distributor of dangerous drugs or a terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
under R.C. Chapter 4729;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a certificate to practice medicine
and surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, a limited branch of medicine or
podiatry under R.C. Chapter 4731;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist or school psychologist under
R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered sanitarian under R.C. Chapter
4736;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B or class C license
or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard employee under
R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed and registered to practice as a nursing home
administrator under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a professional clinical counselor or
professional counselor, licensed as a social worker or independent social
worker, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763; or
      (36)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES.  Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort.
   SALE.  Includes delivery, barter, exchange, transfer or gift, or offer
thereof, and each transaction of those natures made by any person, whether as
principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SAMPLE DRUG.  A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous
to health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, II, III, IV OR V.  Controlled substance Schedules I, II, III, IV
and V established pursuant to R.C. § 3719.41, as amended pursuant to R.C. §
3719.43 or 3719.44.
   SCHOOL.  Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal offense is
committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING.  Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or training provided
by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES.  Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or training provided
by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a criminal offense
is committed; or
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or the governing body of a nonpublic school
for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C.
§ 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction, extracurricular activities or
training of the school is conducted, whether or not any instruction,
extracurricular activities or training provided by the school is being
conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal offense is
committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL.  The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of  references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   THEFT OFFENSE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   UNIT DOSE.  An amount or unit or a compound, mixture or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER.  A person who, on official written orders other than
prescriptions, supplies controlled substances that the person has not
manufactured, produced or prepared personally and includes WHOLESALE
DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS, which means a person engaged in the sale of
dangerous drugs at wholesale and includes any agent or employee of that person
authorized by that person to engage in the sale of dangerous drugs at
wholesale.
(R.C. §§ 2925.01, 3719.01, 3719.011, 3719.013, 4729.01)
§ 138.02  TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance or a controlled
substance analog; or
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution or distribute a controlled substance or a controlled substance
analog, when the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog is intended for sale or
resale by the offender or another person.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731
and 4741;
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration; or
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered for
sale, prescribed, dispensed or administered for that purpose in accordance with
that Act.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section,
trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law; and
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the offense
involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in marihuana is a
minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree
upon a subsequent offense. If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less
of marihuana and if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (D)   In addition to any prison term authorized or required by division (C)
of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13 and 2929.14, and in addition to any other
sanction imposed for the offense under this section or R.C. §§ 2929.11 through
2929.18, the court that sentences a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (A) of this section shall do all of the following
that are applicable regarding the offender:
      (1)   The court shall suspend the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit of the offender in accordance with R.C. § 2925.03(G); and
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (E)   (1)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. § 3719.21 and
except as provided in R.C. § 2925.03(H), the Clerk of the court shall pay any
mandatory fine imposed pursuant to this section and any fine other than a
mandatory fine that is imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to R.C.
§ 2929.18(A) or (B)(5) to the county, township, municipality, park district, as
created pursuant to R.C. § 511.18 or 1545.04, or state law enforcement agencies
in this state that primarily were responsible for or involved in making the
arrest of, and in prosecuting, the offender. However, the Clerk shall not pay a
mandatory fine so imposed to a law enforcement agency unless the agency has
adopted a written internal control policy under division (E)(2) of this section
that addresses the use of the fine monies that it receives. Each agency shall
use the mandatory fines so paid to subsidize the agency’s law enforcement
efforts that pertain to drug offenses, in accordance with the written internal
control policy adopted by the recipient agency under division (E)(2) of this
section.
      (2)   Prior to receiving any fine monies under division (E)(1) of this
section or R.C. § 2925.42(B), a law enforcement agency shall adopt a written
internal control policy that addresses the agency’s use and disposition of all
fine monies so received and that provides for the keeping of detailed financial
records of the receipts of those fine monies, the general types of expenditures
made out of those fine monies, and the specific amount of each general type of
expenditure. The policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of
any specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation. All
financial records of the receipts of those fine monies, the general type of
expenditures made out of those fine monies, and the specific amount of each
general type of expenditure by an agency are public records open for inspection
under R.C. § 149.43. Additionally, a written internal control policy adopted
under this division (E) is such a public record, and the agency that adopted it
shall comply with it.
      (3)   As used in division (E) of this section:
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES.  Includes but is not limited to the State
Board of Pharmacy and the office of a prosecutor.
         PROSECUTOR.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   (F)   As used in this section, DRUG includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(R.C. § 2925.03)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 138.03  DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731
and 4741;
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration;
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act; or
      (4)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4)
and (C)(5), if the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation or substance included in Schedule I or II of R.C. § 3719.41, or is
cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, a controlled substance analog,  or a compound, mixture
or preparation containing such drugs, possession of drugs is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved is a compound, mixture, preparation or
substance included in Schedule III, IV or V of R.C. § 3719.41, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs. The penalty for
the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division,
possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law; and
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions,
possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree; and
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation or substance containing hashish, whoever violates division
(A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty for the
offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions,
possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree; and
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or required by
division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22, 2929.24 and
2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and in addition
to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this section, R.C.
§§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A) of
this section shall do the following if applicable regarding the offender:
      (1)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. § 3719.21, the Clerk
of court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the requirements of R.C. §
2925.03(F). The agency that receives the fine shall use the fine as specified
in R.C. § 2925.03(F);
      (2)   The court shall suspend for not less than six months nor more than
five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit;
and
      (3)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
(R.C. § 2925.11)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.04  POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess or use any instrument,
article or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for the
administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana or to prepare a dangerous drug, other than
marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731 and 4741.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court shall suspend for not less than six months
nor more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit. If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
(R.C. § 2925.12)
§ 138.05  PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee or occupant, or who has custody,
control or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02 or 2925.03.
   (D)   In addition to any prison term authorized or required by division (C)
of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13 and 2929.14, and in addition to any other
sanction imposed for the offense under this section or R.C. §§ 2929.11 through
2929.18, the court that sentences a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (A) of this section shall do all of the following
that are applicable regarding the offender:
      (1)   The court shall suspend for not less than six months nor more than
five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit;
and
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. § 3719.21, the Clerk of
court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to R.C.
§ 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the requirements of R.C. §
2925.03(F). The agency that receives the fine shall use the fine as specified
in R.C. § 2925.03(F).
   (F)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13)
§ 138.06  ILLEGAL CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
the extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (C)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   In addition to any prison term authorized or required by division (C)
of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13 and 2929.14, and in addition to any other
sanction imposed for the offense under this section or R.C. §§ 2929.11 through
2929.18, the court that sentences a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (A) of this section shall do all of the following
that are applicable regarding the offender:
      (1)   The court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit in accordance with R.C. § 2925.03(G). If an
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit is suspended in
accordance with that division, the offender may request termination of, and the
court may terminate, the suspension in accordance with that division; and
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (E)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04)
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see R.C. § 2925.04
   Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony,
see R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.07  ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court shall suspend for not less than six months
nor more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit. If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
(R.C. § 2925.31)
§ 138.08  ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731 and 4741.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation or substance included in Schedule I or II of R.C. § 3719.41 with
the exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance included in Schedule III, IV or V
of R.C. § 3719.41, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree; and
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   In addition to any prison term authorized or required by division (C)
of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13 and 2929.14, and in addition to any other
sanction imposed for the offense under this section or R.C. §§ 2929.11 through
2929.18, the court that sentences an offender who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section shall do both of the
following:
      (1)   The court shall suspend for not less than six months nor more than
five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license; and
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. § 3719.21, the Clerk of
court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to R.C.
§ 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the requirements of R.C. §
2925.03(F). The agency that receives the fine shall use the fine as specified
in R.C. § 2925.03(F).
(R.C. § 2925.36)
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.09  FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19)
§ 138.10  NITROUS OXIDE: IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The recordkeeping requirements established under division (A)(3)
of this section; or
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person’s business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719 or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking; or
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.33)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.11  LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division (A) that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that
the substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity
and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the substance if the
accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the person signing
the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney, within seven
days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the report. The
time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925
or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings or opinions concerning the weight, volume or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal or county law enforcement agencies that handled the
investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511)
§ 138.12  COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. § 3719.21, the Clerk of
court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to R.C.
§ 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the requirements of R.C. §
2925.03(F). The agency that receives the fine shall use the fine as specified
in R.C. § 2925.03(F).
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G), (M))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) through (K)
§ 138.13  USE, POSSESSION OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. The term
includes but is not limited to any of the following equipment, products or
materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender for use, or
designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived;
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing or preparing a controlled substance;
      (3)   Any object, instrument or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance;
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness or purity of, a controlled substance;
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance;
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance;
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana;
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance;
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance;
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance;
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body; or
      (13)   An object, instrument or device for ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic
pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head or punctured
metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or carburetion
mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material, such as a
marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand; miniature cocaine spoon or cocaine vial; chamber pipe; carburetor pipe;
electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product or material, concerning its use;
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925;
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product or material to any
controlled substance;
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product or material;
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia;
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product or material concerning its use;
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product or
material and explaining or depicting its use;
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product or material;
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product or
material is displayed for sale;
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product or material to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product or material in the community; and
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to division (D)(2) of this section, no person shall
knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731 and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court shall suspend for not less than six months
nor more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit. If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
(R.C. § 2925.14)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product or material of any kind that is
used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of this section.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
      (7)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court shall suspend for not less than six months
or more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit. If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
§ 138.14  CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (A)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler sells a controlled substance in a package the wholesaler has
prepared, the manufacturer or wholesaler shall securely affix to each package
in which the controlled substance is contained a label showing in legible
English the name and address of the vendor and the quantity, kind and form of
controlled substance contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the
purpose of dispensing a controlled substance upon a prescription, shall alter,
deface or remove any label so affixed.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E))
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
violation involves the sale, offer to sell or possession of a Schedule I or II
controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the offender, as
a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C. § 3719.99(D)
applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C))
§ 138.15  POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (A)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his or her possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal; and
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (B)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (A)
of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B) or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C) and (D)
§ 138.16  CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
Statutory reference:
   For comprehensive lists of drugs identified under each of the following
Schedules, see R.C. § 3719.41, as amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44:
   Schedule I
      (A)   Narcotics - opiates
      (B)   Narcotics - opium derivatives
      (C)   Hallucinogens
      (D)   Depressants
      (E)   Stimulants
   Schedule II
      (A)   Narcotics - opium and opium derivatives
      (B)   Narcotics - opiates
      (C)   Stimulants
      (D)   Depressants
      (E)   Hallucinogenic substances
      (F)   Immediate precursors
   Schedule III
      (A)   Stimulants
      (B)   Depressants
      (C)   Narcotic antidotes
      (D)   Narcotics - narcotic preparations
      (E)   Anabolic steroids
      (F)   Hallucinogenic substances
   Schedule IV
      (A)   Narcotic drugs
      (B)   Depressants
      (C)   Fenfluramine
      (D)   Stimulants
      (E)   Other substances
   Schedule V
      (A)   Narcotic drugs
      (B)   Narcotics - narcotic preparations
      (C)   Stimulants
§ 138.17  UNLAWFUL FURNISHING OF PRESCRIPTION TO ENABLE PERSONS TO BE ISSUED
HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACARDS OR LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No physician or chiropractor shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Furnish a person with a prescription in order to enable the person
to be issued a removable windshield placard, temporary removable windshield
placard or license plates under R.C. § 4503.44, knowing that the person does
not meet any of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1); or
      (2)   Furnish a person with a prescription described in division (A)(1)
of this section and knowingly misstate on the prescription the length of time
the physician or chiropractor expects the person to have the disability that
limits or impairs the person’s ability to walk in order to enable the person to
retain a placard issued under R.C. § 4503.44 for a period of time longer than
that which would be estimated by a similar practitioner under the same or
similar circumstances.
(R.C. §§ 4731.481, 4734.161)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4731.99(F), 4734.99(B))
Cross-reference:
   Parking privileges for persons with disabilities, see §
76.05
§ 138.18  PSEUDOEPHEDRINE SALES.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. of
this section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this
section, no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell,
offer to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual
an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section
for a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either
to provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division (C) and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER.  Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER.  Means a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN.  Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product .
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product .
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away or otherwise distribute any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder; or
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the county
treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card;
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid; and
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older; and
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
Deputy Registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (E) and (F) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss; and
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
§ 138.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the fines otherwise required to be imposed pursuant to
§
130.99 for violations of this chapter and the sentencing criteria provided in
R.C. § 2929.22, the court shall impose a mandatory fine for any violation of
this chapter as follows:
 
Classification of Misdemeanor Mandatory Fine
First degree                  $1,000
Second degree                 $750
Third degree                  $500
Fourth degree                 $250
Minor                         $100
 
   (B)   The court may impose a fine in addition to a mandatory fine imposed
pursuant to division (A) hereof if the total of the additional and mandatory
fines does not exceed the maximum fine that could be imposed pursuant to §
130.99.
   (C)   The court shall not impose a mandatory fine pursuant to division (A)
hereof upon an offender who alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior
to his or her sentencing, that he or she is indigent and is unable to pay any
mandatory fine imposed pursuant to division (A) hereof, if the court determines
the offender is an indigent person and is unable to pay the fine.
(1997 Code, § 138.99)
CHAPTER 139:  MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
   
139.01   Dangerous fences
   
139.02   Swimming or ice skating in and on Little Miami River
§ 139.01  DANGEROUS FENCES.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence charged with electrical
current.
   (B)   No person shall erect or maintain a barbed wire fence which abuts or
is adjacent to any public street or sidewalk. This division (B) does not
prevent the placement and use of not more than three strands of barbed wire on
top of a fence other than a barbed wire fence, provided such strands are not
less than 72 inches from the ground.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 139.05)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate fences, see R.C. § 715.27
   State barbed wire restrictions, see R.C. § 971.03
§ 139.02  SWIMMING OR ICE SKATING IN AND ON LITTLE MIAMI RIVER.
   (A)   Swimming is prohibited in the Little Miami River.
   (B)   Ice skating is prohibited on the Little Miami River.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense, and a fourth degree misdemeanor on each
subsequent offense.
(1997 Code, § 139.06)  (Ord. 759-87, passed 6-8-1987)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Clermont County Building Code
   
150.02   Enforcement of building codes
   
150.03   National Electrical Code
   
150.04   Residential Building Code of Ohio for One-, Two- and Three Family
Dwellings
   
150.05   Residential Code of Ohio
   
150.06   Awnings, canopies and signs over sidewalks
   
150.07   Radio and television antennas
Flood Hazards
   
150.20   Building permit applications
   
150.21   Subdivision proposals
   
150.22   Water and sewer systems
Building Numbering
   
150.35   Postal numbering system
   
150.36   Notice by Police Chief
   
150.37   Compliance with notice; legibility
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.50   Inspections authorized
   
150.51   Remedial order; failure to comply
   
150.52   Abandoned or persistently vacant structures
Minimum Housing and Maintenance Standards
   
150.65   Short title, purpose and scope
   
150.66   Definitions
   
150.67   Public nuisance
   
150.68   Exterior property areas
   
150.69   Structure exterior
   
150.70   Enforcement
   
150.71   Appeals
   
150.72   Legal remedies
   
150.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical codes, see R.C. § 731.231
   Construction permits and prohibitions for dams, dikes or levees, see R.C. §
1521.06
   Marking flood areas, see R.C. § 1521.14
   Power to regulate building erection, see R.C. §§ 715.26, 715.29, 737.28,
737.37
   Removal of unsafe structures, see R.C. §§ 715.26(B), 715.261
   Required submission of plans of public buildings, see R.C. § 3791.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  CLERMONT COUNTY BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption and changes.
      (1)   The Building Code of Clermont County, Ohio, latest edition, as may
be amended from time to time, is adopted by Council as the Building Code for
the village, and all the regulations contained in the County Building Code are
approved and shall constitute the Building Code of the village, governing one-,
two- and three-family residential dwellings, except as hereinafter provided.
The Clermont County Building Code is hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
      (2)   As used in the adopted Building Code, certain terms are defined as
follows:
         BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS.  Village Building Inspector.
         BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.  The Council of the Village of Batavia.
         COUNTY.  Village of Batavia.
         PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.  Village Solicitor.
   (B)   File copy.  The complete code of regulations to be known as the
Village Building Code is on file at the office of the Fiscal Officer in the
Village Hall on Main Street, and is open for public inspection.
(1997 Code, § 150.01)  (Ord. 395, passed 2-2-1960)
§ 150.02  ENFORCEMENT OF BUILDING CODES.
   (A)   Request for county enforcement within village.  The Mayor is hereby
authorized and directed to sign and submit an application, if required, to the
State Board of Building Standards requesting the Board to certify the village
to allow the County Building Department to perform all inspections and exercise
all enforcement authority necessary within the village limits in accordance
with the Ohio Basic Building Code and the Village Building Codes and to enter
into an agreement with the county for such purposes.
   (B)   Enforcement contract with county.  The village through its Mayor and
Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized and directed to enter into an agreement
with the county for the enforcement of the Village Building Code and the Ohio
Basic Building Code within the limits of the village, whereby the County
Building Department shall exercise all enforcement authority necessary within
the village in accordance with such codes for all occupancies covered by the
Village Building Code and the Ohio Basic Building Code, with the condition and
limitation that plumbing shall be enforced by the County Health Department.
   (C)   County authority and retention of fees. The terms of the enforcement
agreement shall grant to the county full authority to do all things necessary
to administer and enforce the Village and Ohio Basic Building Codes within the
limits of the village, and in consideration therefore to allow the county to
retain all permit and inspection fees authorized by the village and by the
state for such purposes.
   (D)   Nonliability of county. Council further agrees to hold the county
harmless for all claims and causes of action of every kind and nature arising
from the acts of the county, its agents, employees and representatives in the
administration and enforcement of a Village Building Code and the Ohio Basic
Building Code.
   (E)   Building Inspector defined.  In every place within this code that the
term Village Building Inspector is found, it means the inspector or inspectors
as authorized by the county under this section.
(1997 Code, § 150.02)  (Ord. 666-81, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 150.03  NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of this section is to provide basic and uniform
regulations concerning electrical installations and making performance tests of
acceptability.
   (B)   Adoption and changes; fee schedule.
      (1)   The National Electrical Code, latest edition, as may be amended
from time to time, hereby adopted as the Electrical Code of the village.
      (2)   Wherever the phrase “Commissioner of Buildings” appears in such
Code, it is hereby deleted and the term “Village Building Inspector” is
inserted in lieu thereof.
      (3)   Every electrical installation in the village shall be subject to
the inspection and approval by the County Electrical Inspection Department,
herein designated as the inspection authority. Applications for inspections
shall be made and the prescribed electrical inspection fees shall be paid to
the inspection authority. Upon satisfactory completion of the electrical
installation, the inspection authority will furnish the applicant with a
certificate of approval.
      (4)   The fee schedule for the inspection authority shall be adopted.
(1997 Code, § 150.03)  (Ord. 588-77, passed 3-14-1977)
§ 150.04  RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE OF OHIO FOR ONE-, TWO- AND THREE- FAMILY
DWELLINGS.
   The Residential Building Code of Ohio for One-, Two- and Three-Family
Dwellings, O.A.C. § 4101:8, as promulgated by the Ohio Board of Building
Standards, shall apply and be enforced within the village, except plumbing.
(Ord. 1097-07, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 150.05  RESIDENTIAL CODE OF OHIO.
   (A)   The O.A.C. § 4101:8, Residential Code of Ohio, as promulgated by the
State Board of Building Standards, was adopted for enforcement within the
village pursuant to Ordinance 1097-07.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after the
earliest period permitted by law following promulgation of the Residential Code
of Ohio by the Board of Building Standards through the certification process,
adoption and effective date of certification issued by the State Board of
Building Standards.
   (C)   The Mayor of the village is hereby authorized and directed to sign and
submit an application to the State Board of Building Standards requesting said
Board to certify the village for enforcement of the Residential Code of Ohio
with the condition that the County Residential Building Department exercise the
enforcement authority as necessary in accordance with the Residential Code of
Ohio within the limits of said village and to enter into an agreement with the
County Residential Building Department for such purpose.
   (D)   The village through its Mayor and its Fiscal Officer is hereby
authorized and directed to enter into an agreement with the county for the
enforcement of the Residential Code of Ohio within the limits of said village,
whereby the County Residential Building Department will exercise all
enforcement authority and accept and approve plans and specifications and make
inspections necessary within said village in accordance with the provisions of
the Residential Code of Ohio.
   (E)   The terms of the said agreement shall grant to the county full
authority to do all things necessary to administer and enforce the Residential
Code of Ohio within the limits of the village, and in consideration therefore
to allow the County Residential Building Department to retain all permit and
inspection fees authorized by the state for such purposes.
   (F)   The legislative authority of said village further agrees to hold the
county harmless for all claims or causes of action of every kind and nature
arising from the acts of the County Residential Building Department, its
agents, employees and representatives in the administration and enforcement of
said codes.
(Ord. 1096-07, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 150.06  AWNINGS, CANOPIES AND SIGNS OVER SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   In addition to the regulations set forth in the County Building Code
which have been adopted herein, it is also provided that every person shall
obtain a permit before erecting any awning, canopy or other projection over a
public sidewalk or other public way within the village. Any such awning, canopy
or other projection over a public sidewalk or public way shall be not less than
seven feet high from the ground surface level of such public sidewalk or public
way. A fee of $2 shall be charged for such permit.
   (B)   A permit shall also be obtained before hanging, erecting or placing
any signs of any nature which extend over a public sidewalk or other public
way. All such signs shall comply with the Zoning Code. A fee shall be charged
for such permit as provided in the Zoning Code.
(1997 Code, § 150.04)  (Ord. 395, passed 2-2-1960; Ord. 623-79, passed 4-9-
1979)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07  RADIO AND TELEVISION ANTENNAS.
   The following rules and regulations shall govern radio and television
antenna structures.
   (A)   Structures covered by this section shall be structural members used to
support an antenna as well as the antenna itself but nonrigid antenna wire is
excluded.
   (B)   An antenna structure may be installed without the necessity of a
building permit on or at any building within the following limits:
      (1)   Maximum 16 foot above the roof or ridge pole, except that a single
vertical pole may not exceed 21 feet above such ridge or ridge pole; and
      (2)   Standing antenna towers shall not extend above the ground more than
21 feet.
   (C)   Any antenna structure exceeding the above height restriction, and up
to 45 feet maximum, shall require submission of evidence of structural
stability to the Building Department. When acceptable, a building permit shall
be issued for the same. All structures shall be subject to a reasonable
determination of structural stability by the Building Department, and
specifications of the manufacturer may be used as a guide to determine such
stability. An alteration which does not affect stability does not require
another permit.
   (D)   Any antenna structure over 45 feet in height and exceeding the above
restrictions shall require submission of structural stability and shall further
require favorable action by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (E)   Pre-existing antenna structures including those on temporary permits
shall be permitted without the necessity of obtaining a building permit
hereunder. However, no modification will be permitted which will conflict with
this section or the zoning ordinance unless favorable action is taken by the
Board.
   (F)   No dish type or parabolic antenna exceeding eight feet in diameter
shall be erected without approval of the Board.
(1997 Code, § 150.05)  (Ord. 445, passed 7-12-1965)  Penalty, see §
150.99
FLOOD HAZARDS
§ 150.20  BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Village Administrator shall review all building permit
applications for new construction or substantial improvements to determine
whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   (B)   If a proposed building site is in a location that has a flood hazard,
any proposed new construction or substantial improvement, including
prefabricated and mobile homes shall:
      (1)   Be designed or modified and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage; and
      (3)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(1997 Code, § 150.15)  (Res. R75-567, passed 1-21-1976)
§ 150.21  SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   The Village Administrator shall review subdivision proposals and other
proposed new developments to assure that:
   (A)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
   (B)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
(1997 Code, § 150.16)  (Res. R75-567, passed 1-21-1976)
§ 150.22  WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS.
   The Village Administrator shall require new or replacement water supply
systems and/or sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the systems
into flood waters, and require on-site waste disposal systems to be located so
as to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them during flooding.
(1997 Code, § 150.17)  (Res. R75-567, passed 1-21-1976)
BUILDING NUMBERING
§ 150.35  POSTAL NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   All residences and business buildings in the village shall be numbered
according to the numbers suggested by the United States Post Office Department,
at the expense of the owners of such residences or business buildings.
(1997 Code, § 150.30)  (Ord. 372, passed 9-3-1957)  Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate building numbering, see R.C. § 715.26
§ 150.36  NOTICE BY POLICE CHIEF.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief to notify all owners of property in
the village that the numbers designated by the United States Post Office
Department are to be used for the numbers of the residences or business
buildings.
(1997 Code, § 150.31)  (Ord. 372, passed 9-3-1957)
§ 150.37  COMPLIANCE WITH NOTICE; LEGIBILITY.
   (A)   Owners of residences and business buildings shall, within 30 days
after receiving such notice from the Police Chief, cause to be erected and
permanently placed on such residences and business buildings, the designated
numbers assigned by the Post Office.
   (B)   Numbers shall be placed on residences and business buildings by the
owners in a size large enough to be clearly seen from the nearest street to the
residence or business buildings.
(1997 Code, § 150.32)  (Ord. 372, passed 9-3-1957)  Penalty, see §
150.99
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.50  INSPECTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   The Building Inspector of the village is hereby authorized to make
inspections for the purpose of determining the condition of dwellings,
buildings or other structures located within the village, in the course of his
or her duties to safeguard the health and safety of the occupants of such
structures and the general public. For the purpose of making such inspections,
the Building Inspector is authorized to enter, examine and survey at any
reasonable hour, and upon showing proper identification, all dwellings and
other buildings within the village.
(1997 Code, § 150.45)  (Ord. 452, passed 3-14-1966)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.51  REMEDIAL ORDER; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   The Building Inspector may, after such inspection, order the repair of
structural defects in the premises, or order the correction of unsafe or
insecure conditions therein, or make such other findings or orders as he or she
may deem necessary to correct unsafe or unsanitary conditions existing in the
premises. A written copy of such findings or orders of the Building Inspector
shall be sent by him or her by registered mail to the owner of the building or
structure at the latter’s last known address. Such order shall give the owner a
reasonable time, not less than 30 days, to comply with the orders of the
Building Inspector, and to make the repairs specified therein, and to put the
premises in a structurally sound sanitary condition.
   (B)   If, at the expiration of the time specified in the order, the owner
has not complied with the terms thereof, the Building Inspector may cause a
second notice of the order to be sent to the owner by registered mail with the
further notice that, if the repairs originally specified are not completed
within 15 days, the Building Inspector may order the building torn down. Such
order shall be approved by Council at a duly authorized meeting thereof before
the Building Inspector may proceed to carry it out.
   (C)   At any time after the expiration of 15 days from the date of the
second notice, the Building Inspector may, if the owner of the premises has
failed to comply, proceed to send notice, by registered mail, to the owner of
the fact that he or she has ordered the structure to be demolished and that the
costs of such destruction shall be borne by the owner, and that such costs will
be certified by the Fiscal Officer to the County Auditor for entry upon the tax
duplicate, pursuant to the terms of R.C. § 715.261.
(1997 Code, § 150.46)  (Ord. 452, passed 3-14-1966)
§ 150.52  ABANDONED OR PERSISTENTLY VACANT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Purpose.  Abandoned structures or buildings that remain unoccupied for
long periods attract burglary, theft, vandalism, criminal mischief, general
nuisance and other peril to the public health, safety and welfare. The village
will curtail the existence of vacant or abandoned buildings with civil and
criminal penalties.
   (B)   Definitions.
      ABANDONED.  Vacant and exhibiting material deterioration.
      MATERIAL DETERIORATION.  Any maintenance or structural deficiency that
would diminish the value or usability of a structure; any broken windows, loose
or missing siding, missing roofing materials or elements, peeling paint,
deteriorated pavement, dead trees or other vegetation, or other problem visible
from beyond the property line that a reasonable person would deem a nuisance or
eyesore of concern to the community.
      VACANT.  Not occupied for business, residence, government or
institutional use for a continuous period of more than 90 days. To be
considered occupied, a structure must have appropriate utility service and
comply with applicable building, zoning and health codes.
   (C)   Assignment of authority.  Upon reasonable belief that a property is
unoccupied, the Village Administrator or his or her designee may require the
owner of the property to demonstrate that the property and its owner are
compliant with the village zoning ordinance(s) or the regulations enacted
pursuant thereto. Upon reasonable notice, the Village Administrator or designee
may require the owner to provide access to the property and any structures
located thereon. Notification by personal service, process server or certified
mail delivered three days prior to the date of proposed inspection or ordinary
mail posted ten days prior to the date of proposed inspection shall be deemed
reasonable notice.
   (D)   Violations.  The Village Administrator or his or her designee, having
notified a property owner to show cause why the village should not declare a
property to be vacant or abandoned, may serve notice upon the owner by ordinary
mail of the owner’s responsibility to place the property in use within 30 days
of the date of notice. The owner may demand a hearing before the Village
Planning Commission at its next regular session that falls more than three days
after the demand, and the Planning Commission will rule on the status and
determine whether to declare the property to be in violation of this code.
   (E)   Termination of status.  Upon demonstration of compliance, the Village
Administrator or his or her designee may determine that a property previously
declared vacant or abandoned is occupied and thus not in violation of this
section. The Planning Commission may affirm or vacate the ruling of the
Administrator.
(Ord. 1214-11, passed 5-16-2011)  Penalty, see §
150.99
MINIMUM HOUSING AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
§ 150.65  SHORT TITLE, PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Short title. This subchapter shall be known as the Minimum Property
and Maintenance Standards Code.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the subchapter is to protect health, safety
and welfare in the village, by establishing property maintenance and
construction standards that apply to all real property in the village,
including all structures and land.
   (C)   Scope.  This subchapter shall apply to all real property within the
village, including all structures and land.
(Ord. 1271-13, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 150.66  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  A building or structure, the use of which is
incidental to that of the main building or structure on the same lot.
   APPROVED.  Approved by the Building Official under the provisions of this
subchapter or the rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto, or approved by
an authority designated by law or by this subchapter.
   BASEMENT.  A portion of a building that is partly underground and that has
less than half its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground. A BASEMENT is counted as a story for purpose of height
regulations. Also referred to as cellar.
   BUILDING.  Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter, or protection of people, animals, or property.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL.  The person designated by the Village Council to enforce
the provisions of this subchapter.
   COMMERCIAL UNIT.  Any building or structure, or part thereof that contains
retail business, services, or office space.
   DWELLING.  Any structure wholly or partly used or intended for living or
sleeping by human occupants, other than temporary housing, hotels and rooming
houses as hereinafter defined. Tents, cabins, trailers or trailer coaches are
deemed not to be dwellings.
   DWELLING UNIT.  One or more rooms designed for or used for habitation and
having only one kitchen or kitchenette.
   EXIT.  The egress or pathway out from any point in a building along a
continuous and unobstructed line of travel, leading to a street, open space or
court connecting to a public thoroughfare.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREA.  All area on the premises outside a structure used
for human habitation.
   GARBAGE.  Putrescent animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HOTEL.  Every building or structure kept, used, maintained as, advertised as
or held out to the public to be a place where sleep or rooming accommodations
are furnished for hire or are used or maintained for the accommodation of
quest, lodgers or roomers.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE.  An inoperable vehicle is any vehicle as defined in
R.C.§ 4511.01, regardless of its status as a collector’s or historical vehicle,
that is any of the following:
      (1)   Dismantled;
      (2)   Unlicensed;
      (3)   Missing its tires, wheels, doors, windshields, fenders, bumpers,
body panels, hood, engine, transmission or battery;
      (4)   Damaged or wrecked in such a manner as to be declared a total loss
by the owner’s insurance company; or
      (5)   Cannot be started.
   INFESTATION.  The presence within or contiguous to a dwelling, dwelling
unit, rooming house, rooming unit, or premises, of insects, rodents, vermin or
other pests.
   KITCHEN.  Space at least five feet wide and at least 60 square feet in floor
area that is used for cooking or preparation of food. A KITCHEN is deemed a
habitable room.
   KITCHENETTE.  Space less than five feet wide or less than 60 square feet in
floor area, used for cooking or preparation of food. A KITCHENETTE is not
deemed a habitable room.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING.  A building containing two or more dwelling units or
rooming units.
   OCCUPANT.  Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit.
   OPERATOR.  Any person who has charge, care or control of a multiple
residence or rooming house, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let or
offered for occupancy.
   OWNER.  Any person in legal control of a premises or building. That person
may be the owner of the freehold of the premises or lesser estate therein, a
mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver, executor,
trustee, lessee or other person.
   PLUMBING SYSTEM.  Pipes, fixtures and other apparatus for supplying water
for consumption or for the conveyance of waste and drainage.
   PREMISES.  A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any buildings and
structures thereon.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  Sewer operated by a public authority or public utility and
available for public use.
   ROOMING HOUSE.  Any dwelling or that part of a dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, which may contain common cooking, food storage and eating
facilities not within the rooming unit, which space is let for compensation by
the resident owner of resident operator to three or more people other than the
spouse, children, parents, grandchildren, grandparents or siblings of said
owner or operator; but not including a hotel, rest, convalescent or nursing
home. Dwellings in which space is left to two or fewer people shall not be
deemed a rooming house, nor shall hotels licensed under R.C. §§ 3731.01 et seq.
   ROOMING UNIT.  Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH.  Non-putrescent solid waste, combustible or non-combustible.
   SEWAGE.  Liquid or slurry from any plumbing fixture or equipment, containing
animal or vegetable matter or industrial or commercial wastes.
   STRUCTURE.  Anything built or constructed, including prefabricated and
modular systems and mobile homes.
   SUPPLIED FACILITIES.  Facilities paid for, furnished or provided by, or
under the control of an owner or operator.
   SUITABLE CONDITION.  Conditions of any structures or premises that does not
violate the provisions of this chapter.
   TRASH.  All combustible and noncombustible waste material or garbage. See
also RUBBISH.
   WASTES.  Burnable and non-burnable trash, rubbish and garbage.
   WEEDS.  Grasses, annual plants and vegetation other than trees or shrubs,
excluding cultivated lawns, flowers and gardens.
   WORKMANLIKE, STATE OF MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.  Maintenance and repair that
are made in a reasonably skillful manner as an ordinary person would understand
the term “reasonably skillful.” The Building Official is deemed an “ordinary
person.”
(Ord. 1271-13, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 150.67  PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Public nuisance may mean any of the following:
   (A)   The physical condition or occupancy of any premises regarded as a
public nuisance at common law;
   (B)   Any physical condition or occupancy of any premises or its
appurtenances considered to be an attractive nuisance to children, including,
but not limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations and unsafe
fences or structures;
   (C)   Any premises with unsanitary sewage or plumbing facilities;
   (D)   Any premises designated as unsafe for human habitation;
   (E)   Any premises that is manifestly capable of being a fire hazard or is
manifestly unsafe or insecure as to endanger life, limb or property;
   (F)   Any premises, from which the plumbing, heating or other facilities
required by the relevant Building Code have been disconnected, destroyed,
removed or rendered ineffective, or for which the required precautions against
trespassers have not been provided;
   (G)   Any premise that is unsanitary or littered with rubbish or garbage or
that has an uncontrolled growth of weeds;
   (H)   Any structure that is in a state of dilapidation, deterioration or
decay; faulty construction; overcrowded; open, vacant or abandoned; damaged by
fire to the extent it cannot provide shelter; in a danger of collapse or
failure and dangerous to anyone on or near the premises; or
   (I)   Any structure or land found to be in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1271-13, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 150.68  EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   (A)   Free from hazards and graffiti. Exterior property areas shall be free
from conditions that might create a nuisance, including graffiti or become a
health, accident or fire hazard.
   (B)   Discharge of sewage. Sewage must be appropriately discharged into a
public sewer system or an approved private septic system. Discharge of
inadequately treated sewage shall not be permitted upon the surface of the
ground or into natural or artificial surface drainage ways or into any drains
not intended for sewage waste.
   (C)   Storm water drainage. Storm water shall be properly drained to prevent
recurrent or excessive ponding or the entrance of water into any basement or
cellar. Downspouts, foundation drains, and other storm and surface water drains
shall not connect to sanitary sewers.
   (D)   Insect and rodent harborage. Exterior property areas shall be kept
free from sources of insect, vermin and rodent breeding, harborage and
infestation.
   (E)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of unsightly items, including
inoperable vehicles, for a continued period exceeding 30 days shall be enclosed
or obscured from view. The storage of firewood and bicycles are exempt from
this provision.
   (F)   Domestic animals and pets. Domestic animals and pets shall not be kept
on any premises in such a manner as to create unsafe conditions.
   (G)   Fences and retaining walls. All fences, retaining walls or similar
structures shall be anchored firmly in the ground, shall be constructed and
maintained in a workmanlike manner so that retaining walls or similar
structures shall always be in good structural repair. If any fence, retaining
wall or similar structure is found not to be in the state of good structural
repair.
   (H)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures on exterior property areas
shall be kept in suitable condition, free from health, fire and accident
hazards and from vermin, insect and rodent harborage.
(Ord. 1271-13, passed 7-1-2013)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.69  STRUCTURE EXTERIOR.
   (A)   Foundation walls. The foundation walls of every structure shall be
maintained in suitable condition and be structurally sound.
   (B)   Exterior surface and trim. Any structure whose exterior surface is
bare, deteriorated, ramshackle, tumbledown, decaying, disintegrating or in
unsuitable condition must be either repaired or razed. Buckled, rotted or
decayed walls, doors, windows, porches, floors, steps, railings, trim, roofs
and their missing members must be replaced or returned to suitable condition.
   (C)   Stairs and porches. Stairs, porches and railings affixed to the
exterior of any structure shall be in suitable condition and structurally
sound.
   (D)   Protective coating. All exterior wood surfaces of a structure shall be
painted or treated periodically (define) with a protective coating or other
preservative. Exterior masonry surfaces that have been painted or treated with
other protective covering, must be periodically treated with a protective
covering, or all existing paint must be removed bringing the masonry hack to
its natural state.
      (1)   Exterior surfaces shall be in good condition preparatory to
repainting or coating.
      (2)   Bare exterior surfaces that are flaking or crumbling shall be
replaced or sealed.
      (3)   New or repaired bare surfaces shall be painted or coated.
      (4)   Exterior surfaces weathered with dirt and grime shall be cleaned,
and surfaces that are peeling or flaking shall be scraped and painted or
covered with approved protective coating or surface.
   (E)   Overhanging, loose or missing objects. Every structure shall be free
of insecure overhanging objects such as, but not limited to, gutters and
downspouts, television aerials, roof shingles (or slate), and exterior siding.
Missing siding, roof shingles or shutters shall be replaced and matched to the
original.
   (F)   Windows and doors. Every window and exterior door shall be
substantially tight, in sound condition and maintained so as to exclude rain
and to substantially exclude wind from entering the dwelling.
   (G)   Windows to be glazed. Every window sash shall be fully supplied with
glass windowpanes or an approved substitute that is without, cracks or holes.
   (H)   Door hardware. Every exterior door, door hinge and door latch shall be
maintained in suitable condition.
   (I)   Basement and cellar hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be so
constructed and maintained as to prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and
surface drainage water.
   (J)   Exit doors. Every door available as an exit shall be capable of being
opened from the inside easily and without the use of a key.
   (K)   Chimneys, flues and vents. All chimneys, flues and vents and their
attachments shall be structurally sound and able to perform the function for
which they were designed and for which they are appropriately used.
(Ord. 1271-13, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.70  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement Officer. The Building Official of the village or his/her
authorized representative will enforce this subchapter.
   (B)   Relief from personal responsibility.  The Building Official or other
employees, elected officials or officers of the village charged with
enforcement of this subchapter, while acting for the village within the scope
of their duties and responsibilities, shall not be held personally liable for
their actions in enforcing or enacting this subchapter and are relieved of
personal liability for any damages to persons or property as a result of a
lawful act required or permitted in the discharge of their duties or
responsibilities. The Village Solicitor or other counsel appointed by the
Village Council will defend against any suit filed against the Building
Official or other official resulting from acts performed or the enactment of
this subchapter until final disposition of the suit. The Building Official or
other village officials shall not be liable for the cost or damages, provided
they have acted in good faith.
   (C)   Inspection of dwellings. The Building Official or village
representative may make or cause to be made inspections to determine the
condition of dwellings, dwelling units or premises thereof in order to
safeguard the public health, safety, morals or welfare.
   (D)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the Building Official or village representative cites a
violation or finds reasonable grounds to believe that a violation of any
provision of this subchapter exists, he or she will so notify the alleged
violation in writing. The notice will specify the alleged violation, will
provide a reasonable time for compliance, and will be served upon the violator
or his/her agent. The notice is deemed to be properly served if:
         (a)   A copy is served upon the owner, agent, operator, or occupant,
personally, if the notice is sent by registered or certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the owner, agent, operator or
occupant.
         (b)   If a copy is left at the residence of the owner, agent, operator
or occupant. By other method authorized by state law.
         (c)   If the owner, agent, operator or occupant of the subject
premises is unknown, then a copy of the notice and order shall be mailed,
addressed to such person, to the address of the subject premises.
      (2)   The failure of any person to receive actual notice will not affect
the validity of proceedings taken under this section. Service by certified,
registered or ordinary mail will be effective on the date of mailing. The
notice shall inform the person to whom it is directed of his right to apply for
a hearing before the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Final order. Any notice of violation provided for in division (D) of
this section shall become a final order if written request for a hearing is not
held in the office of the Building Code Official or his or her designated
representative within ten days after receipt. A copy of the order shall be
served as provided in division (D) of this section. If the property owner fails
to comply with the final order, the Building Official may take any action
necessary, including contracting with outside resources to bring the property
into compliance with the code. The cost associated with abating the violation
shall be paid from the general fund of the village. The costs of abating the
(dangerous property condition what falls under this) shall be collected from
the property owner in accordance with R.C. § 715.261.
   (F)   Demolition as compliance. Any owner of a building, receiving notice of
violation stating that such building does not comply with the provisions of
this subchapter, may demolish such building, and such action shall be deemed
compliance. Demolition of buildings and structures shall be in accordance with
the provisions of the Building Code.
   (G)   Re-inspection. At the end of the period specified in the notice of
violation or any extension thereof, the Building Code Official or his or her
designated representative will make or assign a re-inspection of the dwelling,
dwelling unit, or premises, and if compliance has not been established, will
initiate appropriate legal action as specified, provided that additional notice
of violation is not required.
   (H)   Extension of compliance time. The Building Code Official may extend
the compliance time specified in any notice or order issued under the
provisions of this chapter at his or her discretion. The person receiving the
citation may receive an extension upon request.
(Ord. 1271-13, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 150.71  APPEALS.
   (A)   Board of Appeals. The Planning Commission is the appeal board for this
subchapter.
   (B)   Request. Any person affected by any notice or order issued related to
the enforcement of any provisions of this subchapter may request and be granted
a hearing on the matter before the Planning Commission on any grounds the
affected person see fit, provided that such person must file in the office of
the Building Code Official a written petition requesting such hearing and
stating the name and address of the petitioner and a brief statement of the
grounds for such hearing or for the mitigation of any item appearing on any
order issued under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Petition. Petition shall be filed within 14 days after the day the
notice or order is served. Upon receipt of such a petition, the Planning
Commission will set a time and place for a hearing and will give the petitioner
written notice. At the hearing, the petitioner may show cause why any item
appearing on such notice or order should be modified or withdrawn. The failure
of the petitioner or his/her representative to appear and state his or her case
at such hearing will nullify the petition.
   (D)   Disposition. After a hearing, the Planning Commission may sustain,
modify or withdraw any item appearing on the notice or order by majority vote,
and will notify the petitioner and the Building Code Official in writing of its
findings.
   (E)   Record. The proceedings at such hearings, including the finding,
reasons and decision of the Housing Appeals Board, will be summarized, reduced
to writing, and entered as a matter of public record in the office of the
Building Code Official. The record will include a copy of every notice or order
issued in connection with the matter.
(Ord. 1271-13, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 150.72  LEGAL REMEDIES.
   If enforcement under §
150.70 fails, the Building Code Official may issue a citation to the
appropriate county court. The Village Solicitor, upon complaint of the Building
Code Official or his or her designated representative or upon his or her own
motion, will institute appropriate action to remedy such violation and may take
other action as necessary to carry out the terms and provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1271-13, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The failure of any property owner to place an assigned number on a
designated residence or business building within 30 days after notice to do so
is a minor misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
130.99 of the General Offenses Code.
   (C)   Any owner or occupant of any dwelling or other structure within the
village who refuses the Building Inspector access to any premises for the
purpose of conducting the inspection specified in §
150.50 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
130.99 of the General Offenses Code.
(1997 Code, § 150.99)
   (D)   Immediately upon the Planning Commission’s declaration that a property
is vacant or abandoned in violation of §
150.52, the village will assess a charge of $50 per day for the first 30 days
and $100 per day for every day beyond 30 days that the property remains vacant
or abandoned.
   (E)   Any person who knowingly and willfully violates or assists in the
violation of §§
150.65 through
150.72 will, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $100 for
each offense. Each day that such violation continues will constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 372, passed 9-3-1957; Ord. 452, passed 3-14-1966; Ord. 1214-11, passed 5-
16-2011; Ord. 1271-13, passed 7-1-2013)
CHAPTER 151:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Definitions
   
151.05   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.06   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
151.07   Compliance
   
151.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.09   Interpretation
   
151.10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.25   General standards
   
151.26   Specific standards
   
151.27   Floodways
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.40   Establishment of development permit
   
151.41   Exemption from filing a development permit
   
151.42   Flood Damage Prevention Administrator; designation and duties
   
151.43   Appeal Board; variance procedure
   
151.44   Conditions for variance
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building considerations regarding flood hazards, see §§
150.20 through
150.22
Statutory reference:
   Construction permits and prohibitions for dams, dikes or levees, see R.C. §
1521.06
   Marking flood areas, see R.C. § 1521.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Ohio Constitution Art. XVIII, § 3 grants municipalities the legal
authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizens. Therefore, Council ordains
this chapter as follows.
(1997 Code, § 151.01)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)
§ 151.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the village are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and velocities
and, when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss.
(1997 Code, § 151.02)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)
§ 151.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to the flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      (7)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
   (B)   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
      (1)   Restricting uses which are dangerous to health, safety and property
due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
      (4)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
      (5)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(1997 Code, § 151.03)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 151.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL.  A request for a review of the Village Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.  The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. The BASE FLOOD may also be referred to as the 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   BASEMENT.  Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, storage of equipment or materials, excavation or
drilling operations located within the areas of special flood hazard.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA).  The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.  The official report in which the Federal Management
Agency has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries and the water surface
elevations of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the United States Department of Interior) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area, is
not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such enclosure is built
in accordance with the applicable design requirements specified in this chapter
for enclosures below the LOWEST FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. It includes park
trailers, travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for
greater than 180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  A parcel, or contiguous parcels, of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale. This
definition shall exclude any manufactured home park as defined in R.C. §
4781.01(D), over which the Public Health Council has exclusive rule making
power.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the village’s Flood Insurance Rate Map, and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  The date the building permit was issued, provided
the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, placement or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE.  A walled and roofed building, manufactured home or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions;
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure; or
      (3)   Any improvement to a structure which is considered new
construction.
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter which permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be
prohibited by this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 151.04)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)
§ 151.05  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the village as identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA), including any additional flood hazard areas annexed by the
village that are not identified on the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map.
(1997 Code, § 151.05)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)
§ 151.06  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard have been identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled
“Flood Insurance Study for the Village of Batavia.” This study, with
accompanying Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps and/or Flood Insurance Rate Maps
dated September 2, 1994, and any revisions thereto is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The Flood Insurance Study
is on file at 389 East Main Street, Batavia, Ohio 45103.
(1997 Code, § 151.06)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)
§ 151.07  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without full compliance with
the terms of this chapter and all other applicable regulations which apply to
uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter, unless specifically exempted from
filing for a development permit as stated in §
151.41.
(1997 Code, § 151.07)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(1997 Code, § 151.08)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)
§ 151.09  INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions
shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (B)   Where a provision of this chapter may be in conflict with a state law,
such state law shall take precedence over the chapter.
(1997 Code, § 151.09)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)
§ 151.10  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the village, any officer or employee
thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
(1997 Code, § 151.10)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.25  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards are required.
   (A)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   All manufactured homes not otherwise regulated by the Ohio Revised
Code pertaining to manufactured home parks shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Methods
of anchoring may include but are not to be limited to use of over-the-top or
frame ties to ground anchors.
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
      (3)   Individual waste water treatment systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (D)   Subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
damage.
      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals, including manufactured home subdivisions, and other proposed
developments which contain at least 50 lots or five acres, whichever is less.
(1997 Code, § 151.20)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.26  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data have
been provided as set forth in §
151.06, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction.  New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction.  New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
      (1)   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall
be provided to the official as set forth in §
151.40.
   (C)   Accessory structure.  An exemption to the elevation or dry
floodproofing standards may be granted for accessory structures such as sheds
or detached garages, containing 576 square feet or less in gross floor area.
Such structures shall meet the encroachment provisions of §
151.27 and the following additional standards:
      (1)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   They shall be designed to have low flood damage potential;
      (3)   They shall be constructed and placed on the building site so as to
offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters;
      (4)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation; and
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   The following standards shall apply to all new and substantially
improved manufactured homes not subject to the manufactured home requirements
of R.C. §§ 4781.01 et seq.
         (a)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored in accordance with §
151.25(A)(2).
         (b)   Manufactured homes shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base
flood elevation.
      (2)   These standards also apply to recreational vehicles that are
either: located on sites for 180 days or more; or are not fully licensed and
ready for highway use.
   (E)   Enclosures below the lowest floor.  The following provisions apply to
all new and substantially improved residential and nonresidential structures
which are elevated to or above base flood elevation using pilings, columns or
posts. Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are used solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement shall:
      (1)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect; or
      (2)   Shall meet or exceed the following criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided; and
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
   (F)   Subdivisions and large developments.  In all areas of special flood
hazard where base flood elevation data have not been provided in accordance
with §§
151.06 or
151.42(B)(2), the following standards shall apply to all subdivision proposals,
including manufactured home subdivisions, and other proposed developments
containing at least 50 lots or five acres (whichever is less):
      (1)   The applicant shall provide base flood elevation data performed in
accordance with standard engineering practices; and
      (2)   If division (F)(1) of this section is satisfied, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable
flood hazard reduction provisions of §
151.25 and this section.
(1997 Code, § 151.21)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)
§ 151.27  FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   The Flood Insurance Study referenced in §
151.06 identifies a segment within areas of special flood hazard known as a
floodway. Floodways may also be delineated in other sources of flood
information as specified in §
151.42(B)(2). The floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion
potential.
   (B)   The following provisions apply within all delineated floodway areas:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development unless a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis performed in accordance with standard engineering practices
demonstrates that the proposed encroachments would not result in any increase
in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge;
      (2)   If division (A) of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard provisions of §
151.26; and
      (3)   Any encroachment within the floodway that would result in an
increase in base flood elevations can only be granted upon the prior approval
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Such requests must be submitted by
the Village Administrator to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and must
meet the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program.
(1997 Code, § 151.22)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.40  ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in §
151.06. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Village Administrator and may include but not be limited to plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question, existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor,
including basement of all proposed structures located in special flood hazard
areas where base flood elevation data are utilized;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
structure will be floodproofed in accordance with §
151.26(B) where base flood elevation data are utilized;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in §
151.26(B)(1); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse shall be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development and certification by a
registered professional engineer that the flood carrying capacity of the
watercourse will not be diminished.
   (B)   The charge for filing a development permit shall be $50.
(1997 Code, § 151.35)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.41  EXEMPTION FROM FILING A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   An application for a development permit shall not be required for
maintenance work such as roofing, painting and basement sealing or for small
nonstructural development activities (except for filling and grading) valued at
less than $1,000; any proposed action exempt from filing for a development
permit is also exempt from the standards of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 151.36)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)
§ 151.42  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ADMINISTRATOR; DESIGNATION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Village Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and
implement this chapter by granting or denying development permit applications
in accordance with its provisions.
   (B)   Duties of the Village Administrator shall include but are not limited
to the following.
      (1)   Permit review.
         (a)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Review all development permits to assure that all necessary
permits have been received from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required. The applicant shall be
responsible for obtaining such permits as required, including permits issued by
the Department of the Army under § 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 403 and § 404 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1344; and
         (c)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located within a designated floodway. Floodways are delineated
in the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map or the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the
Flood Insurance Study. Floodways may also be delineated in other sources of
flood information. If the proposed development is located within a designated
floodway, assure that the encroachment provision of §
151.27 is met.
      (2)   Use of other base flood elevation and floodway data.  Areas of
special flood hazard where base flood elevation data have not been provided by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency in accordance with §
151.06 are designated as Zone A on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map.
Within these areas, the Village Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, including data obtained under §
151.26(F), in order to administer §
151.26(A) and (O) and §
151.27.
      (3)   Information to be obtained and maintained.  Where base flood
elevation data are utilized within areas of special flood hazard on a
community’s Flood Hazard Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Rate Map, regardless
of the source of such data, the following provisions apply:
         (a)   Obtain and record the actual elevation, in relation to mean sea
level, of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not such structures contain an enclosure
below the lowest floor;
         (b)   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            1.   Verify and record the actual elevation, in relation to mean
sea level, to which the structure was floodproofed; and
            2.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in §
151.40(A)(3).
         (c)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Alteration of watercourses.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities and the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources, Division of Water, prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. A watercourse is considered to be altered if any change
occurs within its banks;
         (b)   Maintain engineering documentation required in §
151.40(A)(4) that the flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse will not be diminished; and
         (c)   Require that necessary maintenance will be provided for the
altered or relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying
capacity will not be diminished.
      (5)   Interpretation of flood boundaries.  Make interpretations, where
needed, as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special
flood hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions). Where a map boundary and field
elevations disagree, the elevations delineated in the flood elevation profile
shall prevail. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
151.43.
(1997 Code, § 151.37)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)
§ 151.43  APPEAL BOARD; VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals as established by the village shall hear
and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is an
error in any requirement, decision or determination made by the Village
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Board or any taxpayer, may
appeal such decision to the county court of common pleas, as provided in R.C.
Chapter 2506.
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (6)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (D) of this section and
the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
   (F)   The Village Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
upon request.
(1997 Code, § 151.38)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)
§ 151.44  CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (C)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in §
151.43(D) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (D)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in this chapter,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public as identified in §
151.43(D), or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (F)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
(1997 Code, § 151.39)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor of the fourth degree,
punishable as provided in §
130.99. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements, including violations of conditions of and safeguards established
in connection with conditions, shall upon conviction thereof be fined or
imprisoned as provided by the laws of the village. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(1997 Code, § 151.99)  (Ord. 877-94, passed 8-22-1994)
CHAPTER 152:  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   Definitions
   
152.003   Purposes
   
152.004   Authority
   
152.005   Jurisdiction
   
152.006   Compliance with regulations
   
152.007   Other regulations; conflict
   
152.008   Effective date
Review Process
   
152.020   Subdivision definition and classification
   
152.021   Preapplication assistance
   
152.022   Subdivision naming, sectioning and lot numbering
   
152.023   Preliminary plan required
   
152.024   Filing of preliminary plan
   
152.025   Preliminary plan review
   
152.026   Disposition of comments on preliminary plan
   
152.027   Public hearing
   
152.028   Approval or disapproval of preliminary plans
   
152.029   Approval period of preliminary plan
   
152.030   Final plans required
   
152.031   Filing of final plans
   
152.032   Final plan review
   
152.033   Disposition of comments on final plan
   
152.034   Approval or disapproval of final plan
   
152.035   Approval period of final plan
   
152.036   Record plat approval
   
152.037   Approval of minor subdivisions
Preliminary Plan
   
152.050   Form
   
152.051   Number of copies to be filed
   
152.052   Information required
   
152.053   Supplementary information
Final Plan and Record Plat
   
152.065   Final plan form; number of copies to be filed
   
152.066   Information required
   
152.067   Supplementary information
   
152.068   Improvement drawings required; information to be contained thereon
   
152.069   Assurance of completion
   
152.070   Record plat form; information to be contained thereon
Subdivision Design Standards
   
152.085   Purpose and responsibility
   
152.086   Conformity to development plans and zoning
   
152.087   Capability and suitability of lands and soils
   
152.088   Street design standards
   
152.089   Sidewalks
   
152.090   Curbs, gutters and storm sewers
   
152.091   Blocks
   
152.092   Lots
   
152.093   Easements
   
152.094   Physical considerations
   
152.095   Floodplain
   
152.096   Public open space
Special Developments
   
152.110   Regulations may be modified
   
152.111   Planned unit developments
   
152.112   Hillside development
   
152.113   Large lot development
Improvements Construction
   
152.125   General requirements
   
152.126   Streets and appurtenances
   
152.127   Utilities
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.140   Administration by Planning Commission
   
152.141   Amendment procedure
   
152.142   Recording of plat
   
152.143   Revision of plat after approval
   
152.144   Resubdivision
   
152.145   Sale of land within subdivisions
   
152.146   Variances
   
152.147   Appeal
 
   
152.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Flood damage prevention, see
Ch. 151
Statutory reference:
   Plats, see R.C. Chapter 711
   Violations of rules and regulations, see R.C. § 711.102
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001  SHORT TITLE.
   The regulations contained in this chapter shall be known and may be cited
and referred to as the “Subdivision Regulations for Batavia, Ohio,” and may
hereinafter be referred to as “these regulations” or “this chapter.”
(1997 Code, § 152.001)
§ 152.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY.  See THOROUGHFARE.
   ASSUMPTION OF COMPLETION.  A contract secured by a performance bond or other
guarantee or security satisfactory to Council guaranteeing completion of public
improvements which are required by these regulations.
   BLOCK.  A place or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways,
public streets, railroads, rights-of-way, physical barriers, streams, lakes or
bodies of water, or a combination of aforesaid bounds.
   BUILDING LINE.  See SETBACK LINE.
   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.  A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted by
the Village Planning Commission and/or the Council showing the general location
and extent of present and proposed physical facilities including housing,
industrial and commercial uses, major streets, parks, schools and other
community facilities. This plan establishes the goals, objectives and policies
of the village.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.  See PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   CONDOMINIUM.  Means and includes the land together with all buildings,
improvements and structures thereon, all easements, rights and appurtenances
belonging thereto, and all articles of personal property which have been
submitted to the provisions of R.C. Chapter 5311 and which is subject to such
chapter. A condominium property is not a subdivision.
   CORNER LOT.  See LOT TYPES.
   COUNTY.  Clermont County, State of Ohio.
   COUNTY ENGINEER.  The County Engineer of Clermont County.
   COUNTY SANITARY ENGINEER.  The County Sanitary Engineer of Clermont County.
   COVENANT.  Written promise or pledge.
   CROSSWALK.  A ten-foot right-of-way, publicly-owned, cutting across a block
in order to provide pedestrian access to adjacent street or property.
   CUL-DE-SAC.  See THOROUGHFARE.
   CULVERT.  A transverse drain that channels under a street or driveway.
   DEAD-END STREET.  See THOROUGHFARE.
   DEED OUT.  A method of creating and recording residential building lots
intended to accommodate one dwelling unit of attached townhouses, row houses or
patio homes and their accompanying patios, gardens or small yard areas.
   DENSITY.  A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre.
      (1)   GROSS DENSITY.  The number of dwelling units per acre of the total
land to be developed.
      (2)   NET DENSITY.  The number of dwelling units per acre of land when
the acreage involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses.
   DEVELOPER.  Any individual, subdivider, firm, association, syndicate,
partnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing
proceedings under these regulations to effect a subdivision of land hereunder
for himself, herself or for another. Consent shall be required from the legal
owner of the premises.
   DWELLING.  Any building or portion thereof occupied or intended to be
occupied exclusively for residential purposes, but not including a tent, cabin,
trailer or trailer coach or other temporary or transient structure or facility.
      (1)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING.
         (a)   A detached, independently standing building occupied or
constructed to be occupied by more than two families or housekeeping units.
         (b)   Townhouses, patio homes or any other attached residential use
structure or building employing the use of common party walls.
      (2)   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING.  A detached, independently standing
building occupied exclusively for residential purposes by one family or
housekeeping unit.
      (3)   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING.  A detached, independently standing building
occupied or constructed to be occupied exclusively for residential purposes by
not more than two families or housekeeping units.
   DWELLING GROUP.  A group of two or more detached dwellings located on a
parcel of land in one ownership and having any yard or court in common.
   DWELLING UNITS.  One room, or a suite of two or more rooms, designed for or
used by one family or housekeeping unit for living and sleeping purposes and
which includes permanently installed cooking and lawfully required sanitary
facilities.
   EASEMENT.  Authorization by a property owner for the use by another for a
specified purpose, of any designated part of his or her property.
   ENGINEER.  Any person registered to practice professional engineering by the
Ohio State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Surveyors as
specified in R.C. § 4733.14.
   FINAL PLAN.  A more detailed and comprehensive version of the approved or
modified preliminary plan, accompanied by proposed construction drawings for
required public improvements. Final plans shall satisfy the requirements of §§
152.065 through
152.070 of these regulations.
   HIGHWAY DIRECTOR.  The Director of the Ohio Department of Transportation.
   HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT.  Development proposed for a tract of land possessing
an average slope of more than 15% and governed by the special provisions of
hillside regulations in §
152.112.
   IMPROVEMENT DRAWINGS.  Detailed plans for the construction of all
improvements to the land including street pavement or resurfacing, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, water lines, sewer lines, storm drains, street lights,
flood control and drainage facilities, utility lines, landscaping and other
related matters normally associated with the development of raw land into
building sites.
   LARGE LOT DEVELOPMENT.  A subdivision of land into typical lots having a
minimum lot area of two acres (87,120 square feet) and governed by the special
provisions of large lot development regulations in §
152.113.
   LOCATION MAP.  See VICINITY MAP.
   LOT.
      (1)   A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as are herein required.
      (2)   Such lot shall have frontage on an improved public street, and may
consist of:
         (a)   A single lot of record;
         (b)   A portion of a lot of record; and
         (c)   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record.
      (3)   The term LOT includes the word “plot” or “parcel.”
   LOT FRONTAGE.  That the front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner
lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as indicated under definition
for yards in this section.
   LOT, MINIMUM AREA.  The area of a lot is computed exclusive of any portion
of the right-of-way of any public or private street.
   LOT MEASUREMENTS.  A lot shall be measured as follows.
      (1)   Depth of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between the
midpoints of straight lines connecting the foremost points of the side lot
lines in front and the rearmost points of the side lot lines in the rear.
      (2)   Width of a lot (except panhandle, cul-de-sac lots and lots along
street curves) shall be considered to be the distance between straight lines
connecting front and rear lot lines at each side of the lot, measured at the
building setback line.
      (3)   Width of panhandle, cul-de-sac lots and lots along street curves
shall be measured at the building setback line.
   LOT OF RECORD.  A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT TYPES.  Terminology used in these regulations with reference to LOT
TYPES is as follows.
      (1)   CORNER LOT.  A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a
CORNER LOT if the lot lines tangent to the street right-of-way, at the point of
intersection of the right-of-way and lot lines forms an interior angle of less
than 135 degrees.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT.  A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
on a street.
      (3)   IRREGULAR LOT.  A lot which is not rectangular.
      (4)   PANHANDLE LOT.  A lot whose only access to the street is a narrow
strip of land. The narrow strip of land is referred to as the PANHANDLE.
      (5)   REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT.  A lot on which frontage is at right angles
to the general pattern in the area. A REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT may also be a
corner lot.
      (6)   THROUGH LOT.  A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more
than one street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots.
   MAINTENANCE BOND.  A performance bond satisfactory to Council covering the
cost of maintenance for one year of public improvements which are required by
these regulations.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE PLAN.  The comprehensive plan adopted by the Planning
Commission establishing the official right-of-way width of major streets and
the general location recommended for arterial, collector and local
thoroughfares.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION.  A division of a parcel of land that does not require a
record plat to be approved by the Planning Commission as specified in R.C. §
711.131, and is also known as a lot split.
   MOBILE HOME.  A manufactured home as defined in R.C. § 4501.01.
   MONUMENT.  A physical or theoretical mark or indication of the exact
position (horizontal and/or vertical) of a point or line on the earth’s
surface.
   MONUMENT TYPES.
      (1)   PERMANENT MONUMENT.  A physical structure or terrain feature which
cannot be moved with relation to that which it monuments or marks, that is a
mountain, river and the like, or coordinates in the Ohio State Plane Coordinate
System.
      (2)   SEMI-PERMANENT MONUMENT.  A human-made structure or object placed
on, above, over or under the earth’s surface to indicate the position of a
point (vertical and/or horizontal). Such an object will stand weather and is
difficult to remove. Objects commonly used are concrete cylinders six inches in
diameter or six inches square, by 30 inches or more in length, iron rods or
pipes 30 inches or more in length, or cast iron, aluminum, brass or steel
monuments, also 30 inches or more in length.
      (3)   TEMPORARY MONUMENT.  An object placed to temporarily indicate the
position of a point on the earth’s surface, such as a stake or fence post.
   MONUMENT USES.
      (1)   To indicate the location of property, lot or subdivision corners;
      (2)   To indicate the location of record lines;
      (3)   To indicate changes of alignment of roadways, easements, rights-of-
way and utilities;
      (4)   To witness points set at a defined distance and direction from a
specific point; and
      (5)   To indicate vertical position or elevation of a point above a
specified datum such as mean sea level.
   NGS.  National Geodetic Survey by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration.
   OPEN SPACE.  An area of land intended for common usage by either the
residents of a particular subdivision or the at large public. This area may
include, along with natural environmental features, any active recreational
and/or community facilities deemed desirable by the Planning Commission.
Streets, parking areas, structures for habitation and the like shall not be
included.
   OUTLOT.  Property shown on a subdivision plat outside of the boundaries of
the land which is to be developed and which is to be excluded from the
development of the subdivision.
   OWNER.  Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity having legal title to or
sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence
and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under these regulations.
   PAD.  A building site prepared by artificial means, including but not
limited to grading, excavation or filling, or any combination thereof.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET.  A space at least ten feet in width and at least
22 feet in length, exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, office
or work areas, together with properly related access to a public street or
alley and maneuvering room, but which is located totally outside of any street
or alley right-of-way.
   PERSON.  Includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust,
company or corporation as well as an individual.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.  An area of land, in which a variety of mixed land
uses or physical designs are accommodated in a preplanned environment under
more flexible standards, such as lot sizes and setbacks, than those
restrictions that would normally apply under these regulations. The procedure
for approval of such development contains requirements in addition to those of
the standard subdivision, such as building design principles and landscaping
plans.
   PLANNING COMMISSION.  The Planning Commission of Batavia, Ohio. Whenever
COMMISSION or PLANNING COMMISSION is used in these regulations, such use means
the Batavia Planning Commission.
   PLAT.  The map on which the developer’s plan of subdivision is presented for
recording.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN.  The initial proposal, including both narrative and site
design information, intended to provide the Planning Commission with a firm
understanding of the manner in which the site in question is to be developed.
The PRELIMINARY PLAN shall satisfy the requirements of §§
152.050 through
152.053 of this chapter.
   PUBLIC WAY.  An alley, avenue, boulevard, bridge, channel, ditch, easement,
expressway, freeway, highway, land, parkway, right-of-way, road, sidewalk,
street, subway, tunnel, viaduct, walk or other ways in which the general public
or a public entity have a right, or which are dedicated, whether improved or
not.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way.
In addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may include special features
(required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped
areas, viaducts and bridges.
   SANITARY SEWERS.  An approved sewage disposal system which provides a
collection network and disposal system and central sewage treatment facility
for a single development, community or region.
   SANITARY WASTE TREATMENT, ON-SITE.  A septic tank or similar installation on
an individual lot which utilizes an aerobic bacteriological process or equally
satisfactory process for the elimination of sewage and provides for the proper
and safe disposal of the effluent, subject to the approval of health and
sanitation officials having jurisdiction.
   SETBACK LINE.  A line established by these subdivision regulations and/or
zoning ordinance, generally parallel with and measured from the lot line,
defining the limits of a yard in which no building, other than accessory
buildings or structures may be located above ground except as provided in such
regulations. See YARD.
   SHOULD.  A preferred requirement.
   SIDEWALK.  The portion of the road right-of-way outside the roadway, which
is improved for the use of pedestrian traffic. See WALKWAY.
   SPECIAL DEVELOPMENTS.  Separate entities with distinct characteristics which
are intended to be in harmony with the natural site features and surrounding
developments.
   STORM SEWERS.  Sewers designed and used to collect and carry off surface
runoff water.
   SUBDIVIDER.  See DEVELOPER.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of a parcel of land shown as a unit or as contiguous
units on the last preceding tax roll, into two or more parcels, sites or lots
any one of which is less than five acres for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of transfer of ownership; provided, however, that the division or
partition of land into parcels of more than five acres not involving any new
streets or easements of access, and the sale or exchange of parcels between
adjoining lot owners, where such sale or exchange does not create additional
building sites, shall be exempted; or
      (2)   The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential,
commercial or industrial structures or groups of structures involving the
division or allocation of land for the opening, widening or extension of any
street or streets except private streets serving industrial structures; the
division or allocation of land as open spaces for common use by owners,
occupants or lease holders or as easements for the extension and maintenance of
public sewer, water, storm drainage or other public facilities. See §§
152.020 through
152.037.
   SURVEYOR.  Any person registered to practice professional surveying by the
Ohio State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Surveyors as
specified in R.C. § 4733.14.
   TERRAIN CLASSIFICATION. That terrain within the entire area of the
preliminary plan is classified as level, rolling, hilly or hillside for
development and street design purposes. The classifications are as follows.
      (1)   HILLSIDE.  Sand-gravel soils above 18; silt soil above 12; clay
soils above 12% slope; defined as soil types AdC, CcD2, CkD3, EaD2, EaE2, EbD2,
EbE2, EbG2, EcE3, EdG3, FaG2, GpE2, HkD2, HkF2, HiG3, RkE2, SeD2 and WvD2 on
the soil survey, NGS and property line registered composite maps and overlays
compiled by the County Planning Commission.
      (2)   HILLY.  Sand-gravel soils between 12 and 18; silt soils between six
and 12; clay soils between six and 12% slope; defined as soil types CcC2, EbC2,
FnC2, GpC2, RkD2, RsC3, RtC, RpC2, SeC2 and WvC2.
      (3)   LEVEL.  Sand-gravel soils of less than six; silt soils of less than
two; clay soils of less than 2% slope; defined as soil types AvA, AwA, Bc, Ct,
Ee, Gn, Hu, Lg, Ln, Mb, BgA, Mh, Ne, OcA, OdA, Rn, RpA, SaA, Sh and St.
      (4)   ROLLING.  Sand gravel soils between six and 12; silt soils between
two and six; clay soils between two and 6% slope; defined as soil types AvB,
AvB2, CcB, CcB2, FnB, FuB, GpB, MdB, OcB, RpB2, RtB, SaB, WvB, RpB.
   THOROUGHFARE, STREET or ROAD.  The full width between property lines
bounding every public way of whatever nature, with a part thereof to be used
for vehicular traffic and designated as follows.
      (1)   ALLEY.  A minor street used primarily for vehicular service access
to the back or side of properties abutting on another street.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREET (MAJOR AND MINOR).  A general term denoting a road
or highway primarily for through traffic, carrying heavy loads and a large
volume of traffic, usually on a continuous route with a minimum number and
extent of cross streets, curb cuts and frontage land uses.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET (MAJOR AND MINOR).  A road whether within a
residential, industrial, commercial or other type of development, which
primarily carries traffic from local streets to arterial streets including the
principal entrance and circulation routes within residential subdivisions.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC.  A local street of relatively short length with one end
open to traffic and the other end terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
      (5)   EXPRESSWAY, FREEWAY or PARKWAY.  A major road or highway carrying
high speed, high volume traffic on a continuous basis within or between regions
and/or states. An EXPRESSWAY is a limited access or controlled access and
usually of separated elevation from all other streets and roads.
      (6)   LOCAL STREET.  A street primarily for providing access to
residential, commercial, industrial or other abutting property.
      (7)   LOOP STREET.  A type of local street, each end of which terminates
at an intersection with the same arterial or collector street, and whose
principal radius points of the 180-degree system of turns, are not more than
1,000 feet from such arterial or collector street, nor more than 600 feet from
each other.
      (8)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET.  A local or collector street, parallel and
adjacent to an arterial or collector street, providing access to abutting
properties and protection from arterial or collector streets. Also called
FRONTAGE STREET.
      (9)   PERMANENT DEAD-END STREET.  A street without a cul-de-sac turn-
around having only one outlet for vehicular traffic and not intended to be
extended or continued in the future.
      (10)   PRIVATE STREET.  A street which has not been duly accepted by the
village, county or state for public use.
      (11)   PUBLIC STREET.  A street which has been duly accepted by the
village, county or state for public use.
      (12)   TEMPORARY DEAD-END STREET.  A street temporarily having only one
outlet for vehicular traffic and intended to be extended or continued in the
future.
   TIME LIMITS.  When designated within these regulations, TIME LIMITS shall
begin when application for review are officially accepted or as otherwise
stipulated in this chapter. The submittal of revised information or information
required but not submitted with the original submittal shall renew the entire
time limit permitted under this chapter.
   USED or OCCUPIED.  Include the words “intended, designed or arranged to be
used or occupied.”
   VARIANCE.  A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations
where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VICINITY MAP.  A drawing accompanying a plan and illustrating the proposed
subdivision’s relation to surrounding environmental, land use, circulation,
infrastructure and property characteristics.
   VILLAGE.  The Village of Batavia, Ohio.
   WALKWAY.  A dedicated public way, four feet or more in width, for pedestrian
use only, whether along the side of a road or not.
   WATERSHED.  The drainage basin in which the subdivision drains or that land
whose drainage is affected by the subdivision.
   YARD.  A required open space other than a court unoccupied and unobstructed
by any structure or portion of a structure from three feet above the general
ground level of the graded lot upward, provided, accessories, ornaments and
furniture may be permitted in any YARD, subject to height limitations and
requirements limiting obstruction of visibility.
      (1)   FRONT YARD.  A yard extending between side lot lines across the
front of a lot and from the front lot line to the front of the principal
building.
      (2)   REAR YARD.  A yard extending between side lot lines across the rear
of a lot and from the rear lot line to the rear of the principal building.
      (3)   SIDE YARD.  A yard extending from the principal building to the
side lot line on both sides of the principal building between the lines
establishing the front and rear yards.
   ZONING.  Regulation by districts of the height, area and use of buildings;
use of land; and density of population.
(1997 Code, § 152.002)
§ 152.003  PURPOSES.
   The foregoing rules and regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To ensure sound, harmonious subdivision development and village growth
which will become a permanent village asset by establishing minimum standards
for subdivision design and construction;
   (B)   To secure and provide for the proper arrangement of streets or
highways in addition to existing or planned streets or highways, or to the
Official Thoroughfare Plan;
   (C)   To secure and provide adequate and convenient open spaces for
vehicular and pedestrian traffic, utilities, access of firefighting apparatus,
recreation, light and air;
   (D)   To provide for the avoidance of congestion of population;
   (E)   To provide common grounds of understanding and a sound working
relationship between the village and the developer and to safeguard the
interests of the homeowner, the subdivider and the village and its residents;
   (F)   To cause the cost of design and the installation of improvements in
new platted subdivisions to be borne by the persons purchasing the lots rather
than by any direct or indirect burden upon existing property owners beyond the
limits of the subdivision who have already paid for the improvements servicing
their property;
   (G)   To bring about compact development of both homes and public
improvements without the delay often experienced through future use of
assessment methods;
   (H)   To coordinate new subdivision design with the design of the village as
a whole to allow for the proper capacity of all types of improvements on the
basis of an orderly sequence of subdivisions as a part of community;
   (I)   To secure the rights of the public with respect to public lands and
waters; and
   (J)   To provide for the accurate surveying of land, preparing and recording
plats and the equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing uniform
approval procedures for observance by both the approving authority and
subdividers.
(1997 Code, § 152.003)
§ 152.004  AUTHORITY.
   (A)   R.C. § 711.09 enables a Village Council and/or Planning Commission to
adopt general rules and regulations governing plats and subdivisions of land
falling within its jurisdiction, and requires that all plats and all
subdivisions within such jurisdiction shall first be approved by the Planning
Commission before they may be recorded.
   (B)   Before adoption of such rules and regulations, the Planning Commission
may hold a public hearing and if such rules and regulations require the actual
construction of improvements or facilities, or assurance of such construction
as a condition precedent to approval, these requirements shall first be adopted
by Council after a public hearing. Rules and regulations adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 711.09 governing the approval of plats and subdivisions are in lieu of
any other approvals provided in any other sections of the Ohio Revised Code, so
far as the territory within the approving jurisdiction of the Village Planning
Commission is concerned as provided in R.C. § 711.09.
(1997 Code, § 152.004)
§ 152.005  JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall be applicable to all plats and all subdivisions of
land within the incorporated area of the village and pursuant to these
regulations the Planning Commission shall have the power of final approval of
all plats and all subdivisions within such territory provided.
(1997 Code, § 152.005)
§ 152.006  COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Wherever any subdivision of land is hereafter to be laid out, the
subdivider thereof or his or her agent shall submit and receive approval on
preliminary plans, construction and improvement drawings, final plans or other
such information as required by these regulations before any record plat may be
submitted for final approval. Such plats and plans of proposed improvements,
and all procedure relating thereto, shall in all respects be in full compliance
with these regulations.
   (B)   Until preliminary and final plans for a subdivision are approved no
improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply, storm water drainage, sanitary
sewerage facilities, gas service, electric service or lighting, grading or
paving or surfacing of streets, shall hereafter be made by any owner or his or
her agent, or by any public service corporation at the request of such owner or
agent.
   (C)   Until plans or plats for a subdivision are approved, properly endorsed
and recorded, no lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be
offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale or option be made or
given.
   (D)   All lands offered to the village for use as streets, alleys, parks and
public uses shall be referred to the Village Planning Commission for review and
recommendation before being accepted by Council.
   (E)   In all subdivisions due regard shall be given to the preservation of
historic sites and natural features such as large trees, watercourses and
scenic views.
   (F)   In the case of preliminary plans for parts of tracts, where it appears
necessary to the Planning Commission for the satisfactory overall development
of an area, an owner may be required to prepare at least a street plan of his
or her entire tract based upon proper topographic surveys before approval of
any portion of such plan.
   (G)   In addition to compliance with these regulations all plats and all
subdivisions and every act of platting or subdividing shall be in strict
compliance with all provisions and requirements set forth in R.C. Chapter 711.
(1997 Code, § 152.006)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.007  OTHER REGULATIONS; CONFLICT.
   The provisions of these regulations shall supplement any and all laws of the
state, ordinances of the village or any and all rules and regulations
promulgated by authority of such law or ordinance relating to the purpose and
scope of these regulations. Whenever the requirements of these regulations are
at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing
the higher standard shall govern except as provided in §§
152.110 through
152.113 of these regulations.
(1997 Code, § 152.007)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.008  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These regulations as amended shall become effective from and after the date
of its approval and adoption by the Village Planning Commission and Council
after public hearing, and certification to the County Recorder. Henceforth, any
other rules and regulations regarding the subdivision, improvement or
conveyance of land adopted under R.C. Chapter 711 shall be deemed to be
repealed. These regulations shall in no way affect any subdivision having
received preliminary approval prior to the effective date provided, however,
that no preliminary plan so approved shall be valid for more than three years
after its original approval date, and that no changes to the preliminary plan,
as approved, are to be introduced by the subdivider.
(1997 Code, § 152.008)
REVIEW PROCESS
§ 152.020  SUBDIVISION DEFINITION AND CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   R.C. § 711.001 specifically defines a SUBDIVISION as:
      (1)   The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as contiguous
units on the last preceding tax roll, into two or more parcels, sites or lots,
any one of which is less than five acres for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of transfer of ownership; provided, however, that the division or
partition of land into parcels of more than five acres not involving any new
streets or easements of access, and the sale or exchange of parcels between
adjoining lot owners, where such sale or exchange does not create additional
building sites, shall be exempted; or
      (2)   The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential,
commercial or industrial structures or groups of structures involving the
division or allocation of land for the opening, widening or extension of any
street or streets, except private streets serving industrial structures; the
division or allocation of land as open spaces for common use by owners,
occupants or lease holders or as easements for the extension and maintenance of
public sewer, water, storm drainage or other public facilities.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of the above definition refers to two types of land
subdivision, minor subdivisions (also known as lot splits or cut-ups) and
platted subdivisions (also known as formal subdivisions) in which no
improvements are required. It is noteworthy that all divisions of land in the
state are deemed subdivisions except:
      (1)   The division of land into parcels of more than five acres in size
that does not involve the creation of new streets or easements of access; and
      (2)   The transfer of parcels of land between adjoining property owners
where additional building sites are not created.
   (C)   Division (A)(2) of the above definition refers to platted subdivisions
in which improvements are required. Note that actual division of land is not a
pre-requisite for qualification as a subdivision. Any improvement of land for
residential, commercial or industrial purposes which involves the allocation of
land for the following is legally a subdivision in the state:
      (1)   Streets except private streets serving industrial structures;
      (2)   Open spaces for common use by owners, occupants or lease holders;
or
      (3)   Easements for the extension and maintenance of public sewer, water,
storm drainage or other public facilities.
   (D)   The Ohio General Assembly has recognized the need for simple
conveyance of property divisions in a limited number of instances. R.C. §
711.131 permits the division of a parcel of land along an existing public
street, not involving the opening, widening or extension of any street or road,
and involving no more than five lots after the original tract has been
completely subdivided to be submitted to the planning agency exercising
subdivision approval authority for approval without a plat. If such planning
authority acting through a properly designated representative thereof is
satisfied that such proposed division is not contrary to applicable platting,
subdividing or zoning regulations, it shall within seven working days after
submission of application approve such proposed division and on the
presentation of a conveyance of such parcel, shall stamp the same “approved by
(planning authority); no plat required” and have it signed by its clerk,
secretary or other official as may be designated by it. Such planning authority
may require the submission of a sketch and such other information as is
pertinent to its determination thereunder. This method of subdivision of land
is known as lot splitting and is often called a minor subdivision or a lot
split.
   (E)   The review process for platted subdivisions is defined in §§
152.021 to
152.036. Section
152.037 defines the review process for minor subdivision approval.
(1997 Code, § 152.020)
Statutory reference:
   Lot numbering and revision, see R.C. §§ 711.02, 711.06, 711.28 et seq.
§ 152.021  PREAPPLICATION ASSISTANCE.
   Prior to the preparation of the preliminary plan, the subdivider should seek
the assistance of the Planning Commission in order that he or she may become
familiar with subdivision requirements, the proposals of the Official
Thoroughfare Plan, and the official planning policies for the village.
(1997 Code, § 152.021)
§ 152.022  SUBDIVISION NAMING, SECTIONING AND LOT NUMBERING.
   Names for subdivisions shall neither duplicate nor too closely approximate,
phonetically or in spelling, the name of any other subdivision in the village.
The Planning Commission reserves the right to restrict the use of historic
place names or other names which should be restricted for public use. The
subdivision name recorded with a subdivision shall be its legal name and all
official documents must identify that subdivision by its recorded name. Should
a subdivision be recorded in separate phases, these divisions shall be called
sections and shall be numbered consecutively with Roman numerals. Sections may
be recorded in phases designated as blocks and shall be identified by using the
consecutive letters of the alphabet. Lot numbers shall run consecutively for
the entire subdivision. Sections, blocks or additions to subdivisions may not
be lot numbered separately.
(1997 Code, § 152.022)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.023  PRELIMINARY PLAN REQUIRED.
   The subdivider shall submit a preliminary plan of the proposed subdivision
and all supplementary information and materials required by §§
152.050 through
152.053 of these regulations. The preliminary plan shall conform with the
requirements set forth in §§
152.050 through
152.053 and shall be prepared by a qualified registered engineer or surveyor.
(1997 Code, § 152.023)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.024  FILING OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   An application for the tentative approval of a preliminary subdivision
submitted on forms provided by the Planning Commission together with five
copies of the preliminary plan and the supplementary information and materials
specified in §§
152.050 through
152.053, shall be submitted and filed with the Planning Commission. The
preliminary plan shall be considered officially filed on the day it is received
by the Planning Commission and shall be so dated.
(1997 Code, § 152.024)
§ 152.025  PRELIMINARY PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall forward copies of the preliminary plan
and supplemental information to such officials and agencies as may be necessary
for the purpose of study and recommendation.
   (B)   Such officials and agencies shall include:
      (1)   Village Building and Zoning Inspector;
      (2)   State Highway Director where the proposed subdivision affects any
land within 300 feet of the centerline of a proposed new highway or a highway
for which changes are proposed as described in the certification to local
officials by the State Highway Director or of any land within a radius of 500
feet from the point of intersection of such centerline with any public road or
highway;
      (3)   Village Engineer;
      (4)   Village Administrator; and/or
      (5)   Any other specialized or expert source of information the Planning
Commission elicits or elects to use to review the proposed subdivision.
(1997 Code, § 152.025)
§ 152.026  DISPOSITION OF COMMENTS ON PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   Review comments shall be accommodated as follows.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall not approve the plan for 120 days from
the date the notice is received by the Highway Director. If the Highway
Director notifies the Commission that he or she shall proceed to require the
land needed, the Commission shall refuse to approve the plan. If the Highway
Director notifies the Commission that acquisition at this time is not in the
public interest or upon the expiration of the 120-day period or any extension
thereof agreed upon by the Highway Director and the property owner, the
Commission shall, if the plan is in conformance with all the provisions of
these regulations, approve the plan.
   (B)   The reviews performed by the Village Engineer and the Village Building
Inspector shall include such exceptions, conditions, designs or requirements
deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the policies, rules and regulations
adopted and enforced by such agents, the Council or the Planning Commission.
The listed agent(s) findings shall be adopted by the Planning Commission as
mandatory requirements and any approval given of plans shall be subject to the
compliance with such requirements.
   (C)   The reviews performed by the Zoning Inspector and any other agent(s)
from which the Planning Commission have elicited comments and suggestions. Such
review comments shall be considered on their merits by the Planning Commission
and may or may not be adopted by the Commission as performance requirements for
the plan’s conditional approval.
(1997 Code, § 152.026)
§ 152.027  PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Planning Commission, on its own initiative prior to acting on a
preliminary plan of a subdivision, may hold a public hearing thereon at such
time and upon such notice as the Commission may designate.
(1997 Code, § 152.027)
§ 152.028  APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLANS.
   After receipt and disposition of review comments, and including a public
hearing, if appropriate, the Planning Commission shall determine whether the
preliminary plan shall be approved, approved with modifications or disapproved.
If a plan is disapproved, the reasons for such disapproval shall be stated in
writing. The Planning Commission shall act on the preliminary plan within 30
days after filing or at the first normal, monthly Commission meeting of 30 days
following a filing, whichever is most appropriate to a sound review of the
proposal, unless such time is extended by agreement with the subdivider to
allow adequate response to appropriate review comments. When a preliminary plan
has been approved by the Planning Commission, an administrative officer of the
Commission shall sign all copies and return one to the subdivider for
compliance with final approval requirements. Approval of the preliminary plan
shall be conditional upon compliance with all other applicable statutes of the
state and village ordinances.
(1997 Code, § 152.028)
§ 152.029  APPROVAL PERIOD OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   The approval of the preliminary plan shall be effective for a maximum of 12
months unless the first section of the subdivision has been filed for final
approval; otherwise the preliminary plan will be considered void unless an
extension is requested by the developer and granted in writing by the Planning
Commission. All sections of an approved preliminary plan shall be filed for
final approval within three years of the date of the initial approval of the
preliminary plan; otherwise the preliminary plan will be considered void. One
year extensions may be granted by the Planning Commission.
(1997 Code, § 152.029)
§ 152.030  FINAL PLANS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The subdivider, having received approval of the preliminary plan shall
submit plans for final approval in one of the following methods:
      (1)   Submission of a final plan and construction drawings for required
improvements. Record plat to be submitted for approval after satisfactory
construction of improvements and posting of maintenance bond; or
      (2)   Submission of a final plan and construction drawings for required
improvements. Record plat, assurance of completion bond and maintenance bond
filed for immediate approval.
   (B)   Final plans, construction drawings, supplemental information and
record plats shall conform with the requirements set forth in §§
152.065 through
152.070 of these regulations. The final plan shall incorporate all changes in
the preliminary plan required by the Planning Commission. If no changes are
required, the final plan shall conform to the approved preliminary plan and it
may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plan which the
subdivider proposes to record and develop at that time. The final plan,
construction drawings and record plat shall be prepared by a registered
engineer and/or surveyor.
(1997 Code, § 152.030)
§ 152.031  FILING OF FINAL PLANS.
   An application for approval of final plans for the first section of the
proposed subdivision submitted on forms provided by the Planning Commission,
together with five copies of the final plan and the supplementary information
specified in §§
152.065 through
152.070 shall be filed with the Planning Commission not later than 12 months
after the date of the initial approval of the preliminary plan. All final plans
for sections of a preliminary plan shall be filed for final approval within
three years of the initial approval of the preliminary plan. Extensions for
filing of final plans may be granted pursuant to §
152.029. A final plan shall be considered officially filed on the day it is
received by the Planning Commission and shall be so dated.
(1997 Code, § 152.031)
§ 152.032  FINAL PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall forward copies of the final plans and
supplemental information to such officials and agencies as may be necessary for
the purpose of study and recommendation.
   (B)   Such officials and agencies shall include:
      (1)   Village Building and Zoning Inspector;
      (2)   Village Engineer;
      (3)   Village Administrator; and/or
      (4)   Any other specialized or expert source of information the Planning
Commission elicits or elects to use to review the proposed subdivision.
(1997 Code, § 152.032)
§ 152.033  DISPOSITION OF COMMENTS ON FINAL PLAN.
   Review comments for the final plan shall be accommodated in the same manner
as comments made on preliminary plans as outlined in §
152.026.
(1997 Code, § 152.033)
§ 152.034  APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF FINAL PLAN.
   After receipt and disposition of review comments, the Planning Commission
shall determine whether the final plans shall be approved, approved with
modifications or disapproved. If a plan is disapproved, the reason shall be so
stated in writing. The Planning Commission shall act on the final plan within
30 days after filing or at the first normal monthly Commission meeting of 30
days following a filing, whichever is most appropriate unless such time is
extended by agreement with the subdivider to allow adequate response to
appropriate review comments. When final plans have been approved by the
Planning Commission, an administrative officer of the Commission shall sign all
copies and return one to the subdivider for compliance with final approval
requirements. Approval of final plans shall be conditional upon compliance with
all other applicable statutes of the state and village ordinances.
(1997 Code, § 152.034)
§ 152.035  APPROVAL PERIOD OF FINAL PLAN.
   The approval of the final plan shall be effective for a maximum of five
years; otherwise the final plan will be considered void unless an extension is
requested by the developer and granted in writing by the Planning Commission.
One year extensions may be granted by the Planning Commission.
(1997 Code, § 152.035)
§ 152.036  RECORD PLAT APPROVAL.
   Upon approval of the final plans and assurance of completion for all
required improvements, the subdivider may present the record plat for approval.
The record plat shall contain all information required and shall comply with
all requirements of these regulations. The Planning Commission or an authorized
representative of the Planning Commission shall endorse in writing on the plat
the approval or disapproval of such plat within 30 days after the submission of
the plat for approval, or within such further time as the applicant may agree
to; otherwise such plat shall be deemed approved, and the certificate of the
Planning Commission as to the date of the submission of the record plat for
approval and the failure to take action thereon within such time shall be
sufficient in lieu of the written endorsement or evidence of approval. The
grounds of refusal of approval of the plat submitted, including citation of or
reference to the rule or regulation violated by the plat, shall be attached to
the plat and shall be entered upon the permanent records of the Commission,
pursuant to R.C. § 711.09. After final recording, the subdivider shall furnish
a reproducible copy of the plat for filing in the Planning Commission office
and the office of the County Engineer.
(1997 Code, § 152.036)
§ 152.037  APPROVAL OF MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Approval of a minor subdivision in the incorporated area of the
village may be granted by an authorized representative of the Planning
Commission if the proposed division of a parcel of land meets all of the
following conditions:
      (1)   The proposed subdivision is located along an existing public street
or road and involves no opening, widening or extension of any street or road.
Each lot or parcel created must display a minimum frontage of 20 feet on an
existing public street or road;
      (2)   No more than five lots or parcels are involved after the original
tract has been completely subdivided;
      (3)   The proposed subdivision is not contrary to applicable platting,
subdividing or zoning regulations. Administrative approval may not be granted
if any variance from either the zoning ordinance or subdivision regulations are
requested. Variances of subdivision regulations may only be granted by the
Planning Commission and not the administrative officer, and variances to the
zoning ordinance only by the Board of Zoning Appeals; and
      (4)   The property has been surveyed and the applicant has submitted:
         (a)   One copy of a completed application for minor subdivision
approval form;
         (b)   Three copies of a drawing (plat of survey) showing the proper
dimensions and areas of the entire tract and (note size) each individual lot
and semi-permanent or permanent monumentation of each new and existing corner.
The drawings shall be of such size and shape and contain such information as to
meet the survey plan requirements of the County Tax Map Department; and
         (c)   Three copies of the metes and bounds legal description that will
be used in the individual conveyances for each of the lots involved.
   (B)   Upon submission of the required information, the Planning Commission
office will assign the application a review number and will forward to the
County Tax Map Department one copy of the plat of survey, one copy of the legal
description for the proposed lots and a minor subdivision survey transmittal
and survey approval form. The Tax Map Department after reviewing these items
will return the minor subdivision survey transmittal and survey approval form
indicating thereon whether the items are acceptable or unacceptable for that
Department’s purposes and requirements. Upon receipt of such form from the
County Tax Map Department, the Planning Commission will determine whether the
proposed minor subdivision complies with the required conditions. Action will
be taken by the Planning Commission within seven working days after the
submission of the proposed division. The applicant will be promptly notified of
the Planning Commission’s action, and the applicant may request that one copy
of the plat of survey, and one copy of the legal descriptions, with the
Planning Commission’s approval or disapproval indicated thereon, be returned to
him or her for his or her own use. If the proposed division is acceptable,
conveyances for the lots involved may be presented to the Secretary of the
Planning Commission who shall sign the conveyances and stamp them “Approved by
the Batavia Planning Commission: No Plat Required.” The applicant may then
proceed in recording his or her conveyances by taking them to the County Tax
Map Department, the County Auditor’s Office and the County Recorder’s Office
for processing, transfer and recording.
(1997 Code, § 152.037)
PRELIMINARY PLAN
§ 152.050  FORM.
   The preliminary plan shall be clearly and legibly drawn. The size of the
plan shall not be less than 18 by 28 inches. The plan of a subdivision
containing six acres or less shall be drawn at a scale of one inch equals 50
feet. All other subdivisions shall be drawn at a scale of one inch equals 100
feet.
(1997 Code, § 152.050)
Statutory reference:
   Plat and contents, see R.C. Chapter 711
§ 152.051  NUMBER OF COPIES TO BE FILED.
   The subdivider shall file with the Planning Commission five copies of the
preliminary plan for review.
(1997 Code, § 152.051)
§ 152.052  INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Information to be contained on the preliminary plan is as follows:
   (A)   Proposed name of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or too
closely approximate, phonetically or in spelling, the name of any other
subdivision in the county;
   (B)   Location by military survey or other survey;
   (C)   Names, addresses and phone numbers of the owner, subdivider,
professional engineer and registered surveyor who prepared the plan, and
appropriate registration numbers and seals;
   (D)   Date of survey;
   (E)   Scale of plan and north point;
   (F)   Boundaries of the subdivision and its acreage;
   (G)   Names of adjacent subdivisions, owners of adjoining parcels of
unsubdivided land and the location of their boundary lines;
   (H)   Locations, widths and names of existing streets, railroad rights-of-
way, easements, parks, permanent buildings and corporation, township and county
lines; location of wooded areas and other significant topographic and natural
features within and adjacent to the plan for a minimum distance of 200 feet;
   (I)   Zoning classification of the tract and adjoining properties and a
description of proposed zoning changes if any;
   (J)   Existing contours at two-foot intervals for predominant ground slopes
within the subdivision between level and 10% grade and not greater than five
foot intervals for predominate ground slopes within the subdivision over 10%
grade;
   (K)   Existing sewers, water lines, culverts and other underground
structures, and power transmission poles and lines, within and adjacent to the
tract;
   (L)   Location, names and widths of proposed streets and easements;
   (M)   Building setback lines with dimensions;
   (N)   Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed utility and sewer
lines, showing their connections with existing systems;
   (O)   Layout, numbers and approximate dimensions and sizes of each lot;
   (P)   Parcels of land in acres to be reserved for public use or to be
reserved by covenant for residents of the subdivision;
   (Q)   Proposed use of lots, type and number of dwelling units, type of
business and industry;
   (R)   Location and approximate dimensions of all existing buildings;
   (S)   Location, dimension and approximate grade of proposed parking and
loading areas, alleys, pedestrian walks, streets and other points of
circulation ingress and egress to the development; and
   (T)   Vicinity map illustrating the proposed subdivision’s relation to
surrounding environmental, land use, circulation, infrastructure and property
characteristics. Vicinity maps shall be legible and may be of composite
overlays of soil, NGS and property data maintained by the Planning Commission.
The scale shall be sufficient to illustrate the environs of the proposed
subdivision, but shall not be of smaller scale than one inch equals 2,000 feet.
(1997 Code, § 152.052)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.053  SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION.
   The following information shall be supplied in addition to the requirements
in §
152.052.
   (A)   One fully completed copy of the Village Planning Commission
preliminary plan application form;
   (B)   Five copies of a preliminary drainage plan illustrating the manner in
which the applicant intends to accommodate surface drainage through and within
the proposed subdivision and if necessary, what measures will be undertaken to
control erosionary forces. The Planning Commission may in some instances
require temporary seeding in those areas disturbed during the construction
period. Drainage from one watershed shall not be diverted to another watershed;
   (C)   A copy of proposed covenants and restrictions;
   (D)   A comprehensive identification and analysis of the operating
characteristics of a proposed land use, building or structure. Such statements
specifically include the characteristics and method by which the proposal will
account for:
      (1)   Fire hazards;
      (2)   Radioactivity or electrical disturbance;
      (3)   Noise;
      (4)   Vibration;
      (5)   Air pollution;
      (6)   Glare;
      (7)   Water pollution; and
      (8)   Related or pertinent operational characteristics and performances.
   (E)   In a letter accompanying the request for approval of the preliminary
plan, the subdivider shall state the type of sewage disposal he or she proposes
to use. If other than public sewers or a treatment plant, it shall be
accompanied by a letter from the County Health Department stating what type of
sewage disposal will be approved for the soil and drainage conditions
encountered in the proposed subdivision. A central sewage treatment plant and a
central water system shall be constructed by the subdivider, when required to
meet appropriate Board of Health Regulations. If a central treatment plant and/
or central water system is to be used, a proposal shall be included discussing
the method and cost for the incorporation of such system into the village water
and sewer system;
   (F)   Should the preliminary plan involve a portion of a planned unit
development or a special development, those items which are required for review
by the appropriate zoning or platting authority shall be required to be
submitted to the Planning Commission; and
   (G)   Any additional information that may be deemed necessary for the
Planning Commission to make a reasonable decision when a proposed development
presents difficult or unusual problems.
(1997 Code, § 152.053)
FINAL PLAN AND RECORD PLAT
§ 152.065  FINAL PLAN FORM; NUMBER OF COPIES TO BE FILED.
   (A)   The final plan shall be clearly and legibly drawn. The size of the
plan shall not be less than 18 by 28 inches. The plan of a subdivision
containing six acres or less shall be drawn at a scale of one inch equals 50
feet. All other subdivisions shall be drawn at a scale of one inch equals 100
feet.
   (B)   The subdivider shall file with the Planning Commission five copies of
the final plan. Five copies of the improvement drawings and specifications
shall also be submitted.
(1997 Code, § 152.065)
Statutory reference:
   Plat and contents, see R.C. Chapter 711
§ 152.066  INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Information to be included on final plan is as follows:
      (1)   Name of the subdivision, section number of the subdivision if final
plan constitutes only one portion of a subdivision;
      (2)   Location by military survey or other survey;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the subdividers, and the professional
engineer and/or registered surveyor who prepared the plan and appropriate
registration numbers and seals;
      (4)   Date of survey;
      (5)   Scale of plan and north point;
      (6)   Boundaries of the section for which approval is sought shown in
relationship to the entire subdivision;
      (7)   Exact locations, right-of-way and names of all streets within the
subdivision;
      (8)   Final lot layout, final lot numbers, approximate area in square
feet of each lot;
      (9)   Building setback lines; and
      (10)   Accurate outlines of areas to be dedicated or reserved for public
use or any area to be reserved for the common use of all property owners.
   (B)   It should be noted the information on the final plan shall be a
representation of the subdivision as the improvement drawings call for it to be
constructed. The final plan shall show all modifications required by the
Planning Commission in its approval of the preliminary plan. A resubmitted
preliminary plan will not be accepted in lieu of a final plan.
(1997 Code, § 152.066)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.067  SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION.
   The following information shall be supplied in addition to the requirements
set forth in §
152.066:
   (A)   One fully completed copy of the Planning Commission final plan
application form;
   (B)   Five copies of a final grading and drainage plan;
   (C)   Should the final plan involve a portion of a planned unit development
or a special development, those items which are required for review by the
appropriate zoning or platting authority shall be required to be submitted to
the Planning Commission; and
   (D)   Any additional information that may be deemed necessary for the
Planning Commission to make a reasonable decision when a proposed development
presents difficult or unusual problems.
(1997 Code, § 152.067)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.068  IMPROVEMENT DRAWINGS REQUIRED; INFORMATION TO BE CONTAINED THEREON.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit five copies of improvement drawings and
specifications for all contemplated and required improvements to be constructed
in that portion of a proposed subdivision for which final plans have been
submitted. These drawings shall accompany the final plan when the final plan is
submitted for approval.
   (B)   The drawings and specifications of improvements shall be a set of
construction and utility plans prepared by a registered professional engineer.
The plans shall include typical sections, plans and profile views, construction
details, estimates of quantities, estimates of costs and final surface drainage
details and calculations. All typical sections and major engineering details to
be used for any street shall be approved in advance by the Village Engineer
before completion of plans. (See §§
152.125 through
152.127.) All typical sections and major engineering details to be used for any
utilities including water and sewer shall be approved in advance by the Village
Engineer before completion of plans. (See §§
152.125 through
152.127.)
(1997 Code, § 152.068)
§ 152.069  ASSURANCE OF COMPLETION.
   Prior to the granting of approval of the final record plat, the subdivider
shall sign a performance bond with the village in the amount of the estimated
construction cost to insure the completion of construction of all improvements
required by these subdivision regulations, and to insure maintenance of the
improvements for one year after completion.
(1997 Code, § 152.069)
§ 152.070  RECORD PLAT FORM; INFORMATION TO BE CONTAINED THEREON.
   (A)   Form.  The record plat shall be legibly drawn on Mylar or other
reproducible plastic film of equal permanence. The size of the plat shall be 18
by 28 inches. The plat of a subdivision containing six acres or less shall be
drawn at a scale of one inch equals 50 feet. All other subdivisions shall be
drawn at a scale of either one inch equals 50 feet or at a scale of one inch
equals 100 feet except that subdivisions involving “deed out” parcels or other
information which would not be accurately represented at the aforementioned
scales may be drawn at such a scale as to accurately represent such parcels or
information. If more than one sheet is needed, each sheet shall be numbered and
the relation of one sheet to another clearly shown.
   (B)   Information to be contained on record plat.  The final record plat
shall contain the minimum information required by R.C. §§ 711.01 through 711.04
inclusive, and shall also contain the following information:
      (1)   Name of the subdivision, location by military survey and township,
date, north point and scale;
      (2)   Total acreage of entire tract, total acreage of land contained in
streets, total acreage of land contained in lots, total acreage of open space,
park land and the like;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the subdividers, and the registered surveyor
who prepared the plat and appropriate registration numbers and seals;
      (4)   Plat boundaries, based on accurate traverse, with directional and
lineal dimensions. All dimensions, both directional and linear shall be
determined by an accurate control survey in the field which must balance and
close within the limit of one in 5,000, one in 10,000 adjusted;
      (5)   Bearings and distances to nearest established street lines,
military survey or township lines or other recognized permanent monuments which
shall be accurately described on the plat;
      (6)   Municipal, military survey or township lines accurately tied to the
lines of the subdivision by distances and bearings;
      (7)   Exact locations, rights-of-way and names of all streets within and
adjoining the plat;
      (8)   Radii, deflection angles, points of curvature, tangent bearings,
lengths of arcs and lengths and bearings of chords of all applicable streets
within the plat area;
      (9)   All easements for rights-of-way provided for public services or
utilities, and any limitations of such easements;
      (10)   All lot numbers and lines with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths, with bearing or angles to street lines. When lots are located on a
curve, the lot width at the building setback line shall be shown. Area of all
individual lots in acres;
      (11)   Building setback lines with dimensions;
      (12)   Accurate location and description of permanent cornerstones and
concrete markers which shall be located and set in accordance with the minimum
requirements of R.C. § 711.03 and shall in all instances be located and set to
establish all boundary lines of the subdivision, all intersections and all
centers of cul-de-sacs;
      (13)   Accurate location and description of iron pins which shall be
required to be located at all lot corners;
      (14)   Accurate outlines of areas to be dedicated or reserved for public
use, or any area to be reserved for the common use of all property owners. The
use and accurate boundary locations shall be shown for each parcel of land to
be dedicated;
      (15)   Location and dimensions of common parking areas, alleys,
pedestrian walks and points of circulation ingress and egress;
      (16)   Should the record plat involve a planned unit development or a
special development, those items which may be required to be shown on the
record plat by the appropriate zoning or platting authority;
      (17)   Location and/or statement of adequate outlet for storm sewer as
approved by the Village Engineer;
      (18)   Restrictions and covenants the subdivider intends to include in
the deeds to the lots of the subdivision;
      (19)   A statement certifying the subdivision satisfies all applicable
requirements of the zoning district governing the use of the land at the time
of recording;
      (20)   Certification by a registered surveyor to the effect that the plat
represents a survey made by the surveyor and that the monuments shown thereon
exist as located and that all dimensional details are correct;
      (21)   A notarized acknowledgment of all owner(s) and lien holder(s) to
the plat and its restrictions including dedication to public use of streets,
alleys, parks or other open spaces shown thereon and the granting of required
easements; and
      (22)   Approval and acceptance clauses for the signatures of a
representative of the Planning Commission, the Village Engineer and Council.
The signature of the Zoning Inspector shall be required on record plats of
planned unit developments.
(1997 Code, § 152.070)  Penalty, see §
152.999
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.085  PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   All the regulations in this subchapter shall control the manner in
which streets, lots and other elements of a subdivision are arranged on the
land. These design controls shall help ensure convenient and safe streets,
creation of usable lots, provision of space for public utilities and
reservation of land for recreational uses. The planning of attractive and
functional neighborhoods shall be promoted, minimizing the undesirable features
of unplanned, haphazard growth.
   (B)   The Planning Commission has the responsibility for reviewing the
design of each future subdivision early in its design development. The
Commission shall ensure that all of the requirements of this subchapter are
met.
(1997 Code, § 152.080)
§ 152.086  CONFORMITY TO DEVELOPMENT PLANS AND ZONING.
   The arrangement, character, width and location of all thoroughfares or
extensions thereof shall conform with the village’s Major Thoroughfare Plan.
Thoroughfares not contained in the aforementioned plan shall conform to the
recommendation of the Planning Commission based upon the design standards set
forth in §
152.088. In addition, no final plat of land shall be approved unless it
conforms to the zoning ordinance.
(1997 Code, § 152.081)
§ 152.087  CAPABILITY AND SUITABILITY OF LANDS AND SOILS.
   (A)   Generally.  If the Planning Commission finds that lands or soils
proposed to be subdivided are incapable or unsuitable for subdivision
development for any use due to the attributes listed of a conservation district
and/or conservation/buffer district as defined in this section; and/or if the
subdivision as proposed causes hazard or abuse of such features based on the
comments, conditions or exceptions offered by the Village Engineer and/or the
Building Inspector; the Commission shall not approve the land for subdivision
unless or until the subdivider has submitted plans and assurances to the
satisfaction of the Commission and review agents that the land and soil can be
used without hazard, contamination or degradation.
   (B)   Conservation district.  Those lands and soils found to be incapable
and/or unsuitable for urban use and which pose special hazard, pollution or
degradation to the site, environment surrounding or the public at large, if
subjected to improper alteration, use or management. Such land and soils
include:
      (1)   Tributary drainage system: the beds and banks of perennial and
intermittent streams;
      (2)   Alluvial floodplains: soil types AdC, Ee, Gn, Hu, Lg, Ln, Mh, Ne,
Rh, Rn, Sh and St;
      (3)   Floodzones: those lands determined subject to flood of record or
calculated flood hazard by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA),
including floodway areas, special flood hazard areas and other flood areas, as
depicted in:
         (a)   The Flood Insurance Rate Maps dated March 16, 2006; or
         (b)   As may be determined, mapped and made available by FEMA in the
future.
      (4)   Lakes or ponds intermittently filled with water: marshes, swamps
and wet spots (equivalent to soil types Bc, Ct and Mb);
      (5)   Areas of standing water: lakes, ponds and springs;
      (6)   Depressions, gullies, quarries and gravel pits: complete Cu, Gr and
Rh soil types;
      (7)   Bedrock escarpments;
      (8)   Steep slope and erosion hazards: sand-gravel soil types in excess
of 18; silt soils in excess of 12; and clay soils in excess of 12% slope;
defined as soil types AdC, CcD2, CkD3, EaD2, EaE2, EaF2, EbD2, EbE2, EbG2,
EcE3, EdG3, FaE2, FaG2, HkD2, HkF2, HiG3, RkE2, GpE2, SeD2 and WrD2;
      (9)   Other erosion hazards: defined as severely eroded spot, blow out
wind, erosion, areas of gravel, clay spot, sand spot, made land, soil types Cu,
Gr and Rh;
      (10)   Wetlands: defined to be nearly impervious soils of permeability
less than 0.2 inches/hour of soil types Bc, Cf and Mb;
      (11)   Archeological sites, historic sites, publicly designated
landmarks: defined and mapped by the United States Corps of Engineers in:
         (a)   The 1971 Summary of the Environmental Inventory of Natural,
Historic and Archeological Features - Miami River, Little Miami River,
Southwestern Ohio;
         (b)   The 1970 Inventory of Natural Features - Miami, Little Miami;
and
         (c)   As may be determined and made available by the Corps in the
future.
      (12)   Natural landforms and scenic elements: as inventoried and mapped
by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Conservation sensitive/buffer district.  Those lands and soils found
to be directly affecting on the protection of a conservation element or of such
sensitive character that they may require special use, design and engineering
restrictions. Such lands and soils include:
      (1)   Tributary drainage buffers: the zone of land 150 feet from the
centerline or bank of a perennial stream; the zone of land 50 feet from the
centerline or bank of an intermittent stream;
      (2)   Flood fringe and shorelines: the zones of land 100 feet from:
         (a)   The edge of the flood zone;
         (b)   About all dams, levies, flood control embankments, holding ponds
and similar water control measures;
         (c)   From the bank, edge or shoreline of a marsh, swamp, wet spot,
lake, pond or spring; and/or
         (d)   As the Corps of Engineers may determine to be affected by or
affecting on any area above.
      (3)   Exceedingly shallow depth to seasonal high water table: defined as
less than six inches from the surface or soil types Bc, Ct and Mb;
      (4)   Noncompressive soil foundations: defined as clay soil types EaD2,
EaE2, EaF2, SeC2 and SeD2;
      (5)   Exceedingly shallow depth to bedrock: where bedrock is less than
two feet from the surface; soil types FaE2 and FaG2;
      (6)   Moderate to steep slope and erosion hazard: sand-gravel soil
between 12 and 18; silt soil between six and 12; clay soil between six and 12%
slopes; defined as soil types CcC2, EbC2, FnC2, GpC2, RkD2, RpC2, RsC3, RtC,
SeC2 and WrC2;
      (7)   Other limiting hazards: defined as stoney, rock outcrop, chert
fragment and scabby lands;
      (8)   Prime agricultural soils: defined as soils of capability I Class;
or soil type OcA;
      (9)   Woodlands: woodland areas shown on the NGS 7.5 minute quadrangle
series maps;
      (10)   Woodland wildlife habitats: prime to well-suited woodland wildlife
areas of soil types Bc, CcB, CcB2, CcC2, Ct, EbC2, Ee, FnB, FnC2, Gn, GpB,
GpC2, Hn, Lg, Ln, MdB, OcA, OcB, RkD2, Rn, RpA, RpB, RpB2, RpC2, RsC3, SaA,
SaB, St, WvB and WvC2 where these soil types coincide with existing woodlands
on the NGS 7.5 minute quadrangle series maps; and
      (11)   Historical, cultural buffers: lands within a 500 foot zone of
archeological sites, historic areas, publicly designated landmarks classed by
the United States Corps of Engineers and all privately restored, designated or
interested facilities that may be added to the Corps listing.
(1997 Code, § 152.082)
§ 152.088  STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   General street design policies.  To promote a coherent and efficient
system of streets in the village, the Planning Commission will:
      (1)   Require all new streets to conform to or complement the Village
Thoroughfare Plan;
      (2)   Encourage utilization of subdivision design techniques that will
protect the arterial function of those streets so designated in the
Thoroughfare Plan;
      (3)   Encourage the use of collector streets to serve minor residential
streets wherever possible;
      (4)   Discourage the frequent intersection of local residential streets
with arterials;
      (5)   Require proposed street systems be compatible with the existing
and/or proposed pattern of surrounding streets and land uses;
      (6)   When considered desirable and practical, encourage the provision of
interconnecting streets to adjacent property in such a manner as to provide for
the orderly development of such adjacent property;
      (7)   Encourage an arrangement of subdivision streets that display a
positive relationship to on-site natural conditions; and
      (8)   Encourage street designs that enhance the residential amenity of
new subdivisions by creating interesting visual perspectives and a sense of
privacy.
   (B)   Minimum street design standards.
      (1)   Street width:
         (a)   Minimum width of any new street will be 20 feet exclusive of
curbs and gutters where curbs and gutters exist; and
         (b)   Where no curbs and gutters exist, minimum pavement width will be
25 feet.
      (2)   Maximum grade for any new street will be 12%.
      (3)   Minimum right-of-way width will be 50 feet.
      (4)   Minimum cul-de-sac pavement radius will be 30 feet exclusive of
curbs and gutters.
      (5)   Minimum cul-de-sac right-of-way radius will be 40 feet.
   (C)   Pavement thickness and material standards.  Pavement thickness and
material standards shall conform to those of the Village Engineer, Clermont
County Engineer, the State of Ohio Material Specifications.
   (D)   Street names.  Names of new streets shall not duplicate or nearly
duplicate the names of existing streets of record or streets for which
preliminary plans have been approved. New streets which are extensions of or in
alignment with existing streets shall bear the name of the existing streets.
(1997 Code, § 152.083)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.089  SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   As a general policy, the Planning Commission shall require sidewalks.
However, the determination of need shall be made during each subdivision review
and shall take into consideration any unique or unusual local conditions that
would render unreasonable strict adherence to the above policies.
   (B)   Sidewalks shall be required along both sides of all local streets and
cul-de-sac streets except in subdivisions having a net density of two units per
acre or less and the typical lot width is 100 feet or more measured at the
building setback line.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may require sidewalks in any situation where
proximity of the proposed subdivision to future or existing neighborhood
businesses, schools, community facilities or other pedestrian traffic
generators suggest sidewalks will be needed.
(1997 Code, § 152.084)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.090  CURBS, GUTTERS AND STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Curbs, gutters and storm sewers shall be required in all subdivisions
designed for single-family detached units possessing a net density of more than
two units per acre or possessing typical lot widths of less than 90 feet
measured at the building setback line.
   (B)   As a general policy the Planning Commission shall require curbs,
gutters and storm sewers in all multi-family and nonresidential subdivisions.
However, the determination of need shall be made during each subdivision review
and upon the recommendation of the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer shall
determine the best system for accommodating surface drainage needs based upon
the project design and natural topographic features of the site in question.
(1997 Code, § 152.085)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.091  BLOCKS.
   The following regulations shall govern the design and layout of blocks.
   (A)   Blocks shall be arranged to accommodate lots and building sites of the
size and character required for the district as set forth in the zoning
ordinance and to provide for the required community facilities.
   (B)   Irregularly shaped blocks, those intended for cul-de-sacs or loop
streets, and those containing interior parks or playgrounds, may be approved by
the Commission if properly designed and located and if the maintenance of
interior public spaces is covered by agreements.
   (C)   No block shall be longer than 1,500 feet and the block shall
accommodate two tiers of lots, except where unusual topography or other
exceptional physical circumstances exist.
(1997 Code, § 152.086)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.092  LOTS.
   The following regulations shall govern the design and layout of lots.
   (A)   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots provide
satisfactory building sites, properly related to topography and the character
of surrounding development.
   (B)   All lots shall conform to or exceed the requirements of these
subdivision regulations and the zoning district requirements for the district
in which they are located and the use for which they are intended. Where soil
or other drainage conditions are of such nature that they do not meet the
requirements of the Board of Health regulations for the proper operation of
wells and septic tanks and other on-site waste disposal systems, the size of
the lots in the subdivision shall be increased to meet at least the minimum
standards required to meet the proper Board of Health Regulations.
   (C)   Each lot shall front or abut on a public street. The minimum frontage
permissible shall be 20 feet.
   (D)   All side lot lines shall be at right angles to street lines and radial
to curved street lines, except where the Commission determines that a variation
to this rule would provide a better layout.
   (E)   Lots with double frontage shall be avoided except where the Commission
determines that it is essential to provide separation of residential
development from arterial streets.
   (F)   No corner lot shall have a width at the building line of less than 80
feet.
   (G)   Panhandle lots shall only be allowed where it is determined the at-
site topographic and vegetation conditions will provide an acceptable level of
privacy from surrounding lots. The panhandle portion of the lot shall have a
minimum width of 20 feet.
   (H)   All lots, except panhandle lots and lots which contain an area of five
acres or more, shall be designed not to exceed an approximate 3:1 depth to
width ratio unless some characteristic peculiar to the site renders such ratio
to be undesirable or impractical. In this respect, the Planning Commission
shall seriously discourage the creation of extremely long, narrow lots which
represent an expedient method of utilizing existing road frontage.
   (I)   Lots containing five acres or more subject to subdivision regulation
shall not be less than 250 feet in width at any location (except “pie shaped”
lots along the bubbles of permanent cul-de-sacs); they should be of such shape
and dimensions as to render the possible resubdivision of any such parcels at
some later date into lots and streets which meet the requirements of these
regulations.
   (J)   Lot sizes of all lots shall conform to the applicable zoning
regulations governing the tract in question.
   (K)   Lots may not be arranged in any manner which may block the extension
of existing or proposed streets; nor shall they be arranged in any manner which
may disrupt a continuing street system in a local neighborhood.
   (L)   Building setbacks for all lots in zoned areas shall conform to the
minimum setback requirements of the Official Thoroughfare Plan and the zoning
ordinance. Where such requirements are at variance, the greater shall apply.
(1997 Code, § 152.087)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.093  EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements shall not be used for the sole access to any lot or parcel.
All lots shall abut on a public street.
   (B)   Public utility easements at least 20 feet in total width may be
required along the rear and sides of lots where needed for the accommodation of
a public utility, drainage or sanitary structures or any combination of the
foregoing. Where deemed necessary by the Planning Commission, an additional
easement width shall be provided.
   (C)   The subdivider shall provide easements for storm drainage purposes
which conform substantially with the lines of any natural watercourses,
channels, streams or creeks which traverse the subdivision or for any new
channel which is established to substitute for a natural watercourse, channel,
stream or creek. Such rights-of-way or easements shall be of a width which will
provide for the maintenance needs of the channel and incidental structures as
determined by the Planning Commission.
(1997 Code, § 152.088)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.094  PHYSICAL CONSIDERATIONS.
   Subdivisions should be planned to take advantage of the topography of the
land, to economize in the construction of drainage facilities, to reduce the
amount of danger, to minimize destruction of trees and topsoil and to preserve
such natural features as watercourses, unusual rock formations, large trees,
sites for historical significance and other assets which, if preserved, will
add attractiveness and value to the subdivision and the community.
(1997 Code, § 152.089)
§ 152.095  FLOODPLAIN.
   (A)   As a safety measure for the protection of the health and welfare of
the people of the village, the Commission shall not approve any subdivision
located in areas subject to periodic flooding. If the subdivision is located in
such area, the Commission may approve the subdivision provided the developer or
subdivider performs such improvements as will render the area substantially
safe for residential, commercial or industrial uses.
   (B)   If a stream flows through, or adjacent to, the proposed subdivision,
the plat shall provide for a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way
along the stream for a floodway of at least 20 feet or wider if needed. For the
smaller streams, the plat shall provide for channel improvements to enable them
to carry all reasonable floods within banks. The floodway easement shall be
wide enough to provide for future enlargement of the stream channels as
adjacent areas become more highly developed and runoff rates are increased.
   (C)   Approval shall not be given for streets within a subdivision which
would be subject to flooding. All streets must be located at elevations which
will make them flood free in order that no portion of the subdivision would
become isolated by floods.
(1997 Code, § 152.090)
§ 152.096  PUBLIC OPEN SPACE.
   The Planning Commission urges every subdivider to provide open space for
such associated uses as parks, playgrounds, schools and the like to a degree
commensurate with the size, density and nature of the proposed development.
Where an adopted master plan exists for parks, schools and the like and where
such plans pertain to the tract to be subdivided, the Planning Commission shall
require the space requirements of the plan to be incorporated into the
subdivision design. This shall be accomplished by dedication, reservation for
use, acquisition or any other method acceptable to the Planning Commission that
would not place an unreasonable burden on the subdivider.
(1997 Code, § 152.091)
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENTS
§ 152.110  REGULATIONS MAY BE MODIFIED.
   (A)   Special developments are separate entities with distinct
characteristics which are intended to be in harmony with the natural site
features and surrounding developments. Conventional design standards contained
in §§
152.085 through
152.096 may be waived and modified by the degree necessary to achieve the
intent of the special development. However, the project must clearly
demonstrate that the natural features of the site are being preserved and that
the attributes of the project could not be achieved with strict adherence to
conventional regulations. Projects which are designed primarily to circumvent
conventional regulations shall not be approved.
   (B)   The planned unit development and community development approach to
development is greatly encouraged. These regulations may be modified by the
degree necessary to accomplish the objectives and standards required for the
planned development of residential, commercial or industrial subdivisions, or a
mixture thereof, in accordance with the governing zoning ordinance. Nothing
within this section, however, shall exempt the developer from the requirements
of subdivision plat approval as specified in §§
152.020 through
152.037,
152.050 through
152.053 and
152.065 through
152.070 of these regulations.
(1997 Code, § 152.105)
Statutory reference:
   Engineer to approve plats; inspection of streets and acceptance, see R.C. §
711.08 et seq.
§ 152.111  PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   It is the intent of these regulations to accommodate creative and
imaginative community and planned unit developments and to permit utilization
of those innovations in land development technology which are in the best
interest of the village. It is the purpose of this section to waive design
requirements by the degree necessary to accomplish the following objectives:
      (1)   The conservation of natural amenities of the landscape;
      (2)   The creation of functional and interesting residential areas;
      (3)   The provision of readily accessible open space;
      (4)   The separation of pedestrian and vehicular circulation; and
      (5)   The provision of a necessary complement of community facilities.
   (B)   The developer shall however comply with the appropriate zoning
regulations if applicable, and the review requirements of these regulations.
The Planning Commission may approve the development provided that the density
of the project does not exceed five units per gross acre, the intent and
objectives of these regulations are met, and the developer provides all
necessary information which may be required by the Commission to make an
appropriate decision.
      (1)   Open space.  A major element of the community or planned unit
development is privately-owned or publicly-owned common property within the
development. These developments usually contain such features as internal park
network abutting home sites, recreational facilities and preservation of
natural amenities. A homeowner’s association should be established to provide
for the maintenance of all properties held in common.
      (2)   Conformity to existing streets and Thoroughfare Plan.  Whenever a
community or planned unit development abuts or contains an existing or proposed
major thoroughfare, the standards as contained in these regulations shall be
applicable. If a planned unit development abuts or contains an existing local
or collector residential street, it must meet the requirements of these
regulations.
      (3)   Private streets.  Private streets may be permitted in community or
planned unit developments provided they meet the following requirements:
         (a)   All private streets shall be constructed to satisfy the same
requirements set out in these regulations and all other county specifications
and requirements for the construction of public streets;
         (b)   A homeowner’s association or other appropriate method is
established to maintain the street system; and
         (c)   Private streets should not be planned to be extended to adjacent
properties.
      (4)   Public streets.  The Planning Commission may require certain
streets within community or planned developments to be public if it determines
that the project density necessitates the use of public streets and that
traffic connections are required to adjacent plats or developments for adequate
circulation.
      (5)   Sanitary sewer lines and appurtenances.  All sanitary sewer lines
and appurtenances and water lines constructed within a community or planned
unit development shall be built in accordance with the latest approved and
adopted regulations of the Village Administrator and the Standard Details
referred to in §§
152.125 through
152.127. Such facilities will be provided with easements satisfying the
requirements of the village.
      (6)   Staging of nonresidential construction.  If a community or planned
unit development contains nonresidential uses, these uses may be constructed
first, but only if the Planning Commission finds and records its findings on
the final development plan that the nonresidential uses are consistent with the
comprehensive plan for the community even though the residential area of the
planned development is not built or not completed.
      (7)   Deed out.  In community and planned unit developments, the Planning
Commission will permit the transfer of the fee simple title for parcels of land
large enough to accommodate a unit of attached townhouses, row houses or patio
homes and its accompanying patio, garden or small yard area. This zero lot line
method of title transfer shall be known as deed out and shall only be permitted
in projects developed in accordance with the intent and objectives of these
regulations and in accordance with a recorded development plan for the project.
The design of all deed out projects must however satisfy zoning requirements
governing the tract in question.
      (8)   Condominiums.  R.C. Chapter 5311 provides for the recording of
ownership of condominiums. Condominium ownership does not excuse compliance
with these regulations whenever appropriate.
(1997 Code, § 152.106)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.112  HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Generally. The regulations contained in this section are intended to
encourage subdivision techniques which will minimize disturbance of the natural
topographic features and other physical assets of the village hillside areas. A
HILLSIDE AREA as referred to herein is defined as one with an average slope of
15% or more.
   (B)   Combining regulations.  In large subdivisions, where only a portion of
the tract qualifies as a hillside area, the regulations included in this
section may be used in combination with the regulations contained in other
chapters of the subdivision regulations.
   (C)   Determination of average slope.  The applicant shall submit a detailed
slope analysis to the Planning Commission staff prior to the submittal of
preliminary subdivision drawings.
   (D)   Lotting.  Lots proposed for hillside development must bear a
relationship to existing topography and must be of a sufficient size and
configuration to assure an appropriate placement of structures thereon. In all
instances, the smallest lot shall satisfy the minimum lot size requirements
specified in the zoning district governing the tract of land.
   (E)   Structure placement.  The preliminary plans shall indicate the
approximate location of each proposed structure. Structures should be placed in
such a manner as to require a minimum amount of alteration to the existing
contours and other physical assets of the site.
   (F)   Conformity to existing streets and Thoroughfare Plan.  Whenever a
hillside development abuts or contains an existing or proposed major
thoroughfare, the standards as contained in these regulations shall be
applicable. If a hillside development abuts or contains an existing local or
collector residential street, it must meet the requirements of these
regulations.
   (G)   Street design criteria.
      (1)   All streets will be designed as local streets. Their alignment will
reflect existing topographic features and will be planned to prohibit through
traffic.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may allow a reduction of pavement width to
18 feet.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may allow a maximum 12% street gradient on
hillside streets.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall require curbs, gutters, storm sewers
and sidewalks for any hillside street which would normally require such
improvements under §§
152.085 through
152.096 of these regulations. However, along any hillside street curbs, gutters
and storm sewers shall be required by the Planning Commission upon the
Engineer’s recommendation and determination that such improvements are
necessary to accommodate the surface drainage in order to prevent soil erosion
or to protect the hillside or public improvements from potential damage.
   (H)   Resubdivision.  A hillside development may be resubdivided only where
no new building sites are created or where the resubdivider constructs all
improvements or additional improvements to the design requirements set out in
§§
152.085 through
152.096. The record plat of a hillside development must clearly indicate that
it is a special development approved under this chapter and shall include in
its covenants and restrictions a clause prohibiting the resubdivision of any
lot within the development except where in compliance with these regulations.
(1997 Code, § 152.107)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.113  LARGE LOT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Generally.  The regulations contained in this section are intended to
accommodate low density developments which will provide livable environments
with a minimal disturbance to natural topography and physical assets of the
proposed site.
   (B)   Minimum lot size.  All lots in large lot developments shall contain a
minimum of two acres (87,120 square feet).
   (C)   Conformity to existing streets and Thoroughfare Plan.  Whenever a
large lot development abuts or contains an existing or proposed major
thoroughfare, the standards contained in these regulations shall be applicable.
If a large lot development abuts or contains an existing local or collector
residential street, it must meet the requirements of these regulations.
   (D)   Street design criteria.
      (1)   All streets will be designed as local streets. Their alignment will
reflect existing topographic features and will be planned to prohibit through
traffic.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may allow a reduction in pavement width to
18 feet. These streets must be planned to terminate within the property and not
be extended to additional lots. The Planning Commission, however, reserves the
right to require extension of the street to property lines if special
circumstances warrant this determination.
      (3)   As a general policy curbs, gutters, storm sewers and sidewalks will
not usually be required within a large lot development. However, the Planning
Commission shall require these improvements where such improvements are
required under §§
152.085 through
152.096 of these regulations.
   (E)   Resubdivision.  A large lot development may be resubdivided only where
no new building sites are created or where the resubdivider constructs all
improvements or additional improvements to the design requirements set out in
§§
152.085 through
152.096. The record plat of a large lot development must clearly indicate that
it is a special development approved under this chapter and shall include in
its covenants and restrictions a clause prohibiting the resubdivision of any
lot within the development except where in compliance with the requirements of
these regulations.
(1997 Code, § 152.108)  Penalty, see §
152.999
IMPROVEMENTS CONSTRUCTION
§ 152.125  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All improvements to streets, drainage and utilities within the corporate
limits of the village shall conform to the design and construction criteria set
forth in the latest approved and adopted plans entitled, Standard Details for
Design and Construction of Subdivision Facilities, Street and Utility
Improvements or Extensions, Village of Batavia, Ohio.
(1997 Code, § 152.120)
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of construction; acceptance, see R.C. § 711.091
§ 152.126  STREETS AND APPURTENANCES.
   Streets, rights-of-way, storm sewers, sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall
meet the requirements of §§
152.085 through
152.096 and the latest approved and adopted version of the Standard Details
referenced in §
152.125.
(1997 Code, § 152.121)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.127  UTILITIES.
   (A)   Water and sewer line construction is the responsibility of the Village
Administrator. All such construction, whether it be a part of a subdivision
development, an improvement or an extension shall meet the requirements of the
latest approved and adopted regulations of the Village Administrator pertaining
thereto and the Standard Details referenced in §
152.125.
   (B)   The regulation and Standard Details adopted by the Village
Administrator shall include:
      (1)   Review process;
      (2)   Board authority;
      (3)   Village Engineer’s authority;
      (4)   Condition of approval;
      (5)   Construction materials and methods;
      (6)   Inspection; and
      (7)   Fees.
(1997 Code, § 152.122)  Penalty, see §
152.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.140  ADMINISTRATION BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   These regulations shall be administered by the Planning Commission.
(1997 Code, § 152.135)
§ 152.141  AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   The Planning Commission may, on its own motion and after public hearing,
amend, supplement or change these regulations. Notice shall be given of the
time and place of such public hearing by publication in at least one newspaper
of general circulation published in the village 30 days prior to holding of
such hearing. Such amendment shall be on file in the office of the Village
Fiscal Officer for public examination during such 30 days. However, no
amendment, supplementation or change made to these regulations shall become
effective until such amendment has been adopted by Council after public
hearing.
(1997 Code, § 152.136)
§ 152.142  RECORDING OF PLAT.
   No plat of any subdivision located within the incorporated area of the
village shall be entitled to record in the office of the Recorder of the county
or have any validity until it has been approved by the manner prescribed in
these subdivision regulations. In the event any such unapproved plat is
recorded, it shall be considered invalid and Council shall institute
proceedings to have the plat stricken from the records of the county.
(1997 Code, § 152.137)
Statutory reference:
   Plat and contents, see R.C. § 711.01 et seq.
§ 152.143  REVISION OF PLAT AFTER APPROVAL.
   No changes, erasures, modifications or revisions shall be made in any plat
of a subdivision after approval has been given by the Planning Commission, and
endorsed in writing on the plat, unless such plat is first resubmitted to the
Commission.
(1997 Code, § 152.138)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.144  RESUBDIVISION.
   Whenever a plat for an existing recorded subdivision is proposed to be
changed or altered, such change or alteration shall be considered a
resubdivision and shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for approval in
compliance with these regulations.
(1997 Code, § 152.139)
§ 152.145  SALE OF LAND WITHIN SUBDIVISIONS.
   No owner or agent of the owner of any land located within a subdivision
shall transfer or sell any land by reference to, exhibition of, or by the use
of a plat of the subdivision before such plat has been approved and recorded in
the manner prescribed in these regulations. The description of such lot or
parcel by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents
used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the transaction
from the provisions of these regulations.
(1997 Code, § 152.140)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.146  VARIANCES.
   The following regulations shall govern the granting of variances.
   (A)   Where the Planning Commission finds that extraordinary and unnecessary
hardship may result from strict compliance with these regulations, due to
exceptional topographic or other physical conditions, it may vary the
regulations so as to relieve such hardship, provided such relief may be granted
without detriment to the public interest and without impairing the intent and
purpose of these regulations or the desirable development of the neighborhood
and community. Such variations shall not have the effect of nullifying the
intent and purpose of these regulations, the comprehensive plan or the zoning
ordinance.
   (B)   In granting variances or modifications, the Planning Commission may
require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objective of the standards or requirements so varied or modified.
(1997 Code, § 152.141)
§ 152.147  APPEAL.
   Any person who believes he or she has been aggrieved by the regulations or
the action of the Planning Commission has all the rights of appeal as set forth
in R.C. Chapter 711 or any other applicable section of the Ohio Revised Code.
(1997 Code, § 152.142)
§ 152.999  PENALTY.
   The following penalties and forfeitures shall apply to the violations of
these regulations.
   (A)   Whoever violates any rule or regulation adopted by Council that sets
standards or requires improvements in a subdivision or who fails to comply with
any related order is creating a public nuisance.  The village or any village
resident may enjoin and abate the nuisance by action at suit.  Whoever violates
these regulations shall forfeit and pay not less than $10 nor more than $1,000,
which the plaintiff may recover with costs in a civil action brought in the
court of common pleas.
(R.C. § 711.102)
   (B)   Whoever being the owner or agent of the owner of any land in the
village, transfers any lot, parcel or tract of such land from or in accordance
with a plat or plan of a subdivision before such plan has been approved by the
Planning Commission and recorded in the office of the County Recorder, shall
forfeit and pay the sum of not less than $10 nor more than $500 for each lot,
parcel or tract of land sold. The description of such lot, parcel or tract by
metes and bounds in the deed or transfer shall not serve to exempt the seller
from the forfeiture provided in this section. Such sum may be recovered in a
civil action, brought by the Village Solicitor or Planning Commission in the
name of the village and for the use of the road repair fund thereof. The sale
of lots, parcels or tracts from a plat of a subdivision on which any and all
areas indicated as streets or open grounds are expressly indicated as for the
exclusive use of the abutting or other owners in such subdivision and not as
public streets, ways or grounds shall not serve to exempt the seller from the
requirements of these regulations or from the forfeiture herein provided.
(R.C. § 711.13)
   (C)   Every plat or subdivision of land within the incorporated area of the
village and every act of platting or subdividing thereof shall be subject to
all rules and requirements of these regulations and of R.C. Chapter 711, and
any violation of such rules or requirements shall be subject to the penalties
and forfeitures as set forth in this section and as set forth in the Ohio
Revised Code.
(1997 Code, § 152.999)
CHAPTER 153:  ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The revised comprehensive zoning ordinance, copies of which are on file in
the office of the Fiscal Officer, is adopted and incorporated as part of this
code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 417, passed 6-4-1963; Ord. 463, passed 4-10-1967; Ord. 492, passed 11-10-
1969; Res. 527-72, passed 11-13-1972; Ord. 529, passed 12-18-1972; Ord. 576-76,
passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 678-82, passed 2-8-1982; Ord. 691-82, passed 5-10-1982;
Ord. 748-86, passed 5-12-1986; Ord. 833-92, passed 1-13-1992; Ord. 840-92,
passed 5-11-1992; Ord. 882-94, passed 8-24-1995; Ord. 905-96, passed 1-8-1996;
Ord. 982-01, passed 7-9-2001; Ord. 1121-07, passed 10-1-2007; Ord. 1182-09,
passed 9-21-2009; Ord. 1212-11, passed 5-16-2011; Ord. 1213-11, passed 5-16-
2011; Ord. 1215-11, passed 5-16-2011; Ord. 1232-11, passed 12-5-2011)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   DEDICATIONS
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
III.   BONDS
      
IV.   ANNEXATIONS
      
V.   LEASES
      
VI.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I:  DEDICATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
913-96   8-26-1996   Accepting and confirming the dedication of Haskell Lane as
                     a public street.
                    
 
TABLE II:  ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
896-  6-26-  Rezoning the 5.8403 acres located at 50 West Main Street from Agricultural to
95    1995   B-2.
927-  7-14-  Rezoning 0.67 acres located at 340 Foundry Avenue from Floodplain (F) to
97    1997   Industrial (I).
943-  6-8-   Rezoning Floodplain District (F) for the Wayne Klekamp and village property
98    1998   along Haskell Lane is changed to General Business (B-2).
             F zoning for properties along the East Fork River, south of Main Street to the
           Norfolk-Southern Railroad, and adjoining Foundry Avenue is changed to
             Industrial (I)
             Residential (R-1), containing properties on the west side of South Riverside
             Drive, contiguous to the Neighborhood Business (B-1) at Main Street and
           southerly through 161 South Riverside Drive, will become B-1, Neighborhood
             Business; the next two properties in that strip, 177 and 197 South Riverside
             Drive will become Neighborhood Service District (S-1).
953-  5-10-  Zoning for 1011, 1021 and 1031 College Drive established as B-2.
99    1999
1032- 3-15-  Rezoning the parcel of land recorded as #060218.1003 on the County Auditor’s
04    2004   tax roll from B-1 Neighborhood Business to B-2 General Business.
1163- 5-18-  Rezoning the parcels of land recorded as #060218.004 and #060218.003 located
09    2009   on Foundry Avenue from R to S.
1164- 5-18-  Rezoning the parcel of land recorded as #060222.003, 500 Kent Road, from B-
09    2009   2 to I.
1168- 6-15-  Rezoning the parcel of land recorded as #060219.020, located on College Drive,
09    2009   from B-2 to R.
1225- 1-9-   Incorporating the revised and updated zoning map by reference.
11    2012
1286- 11-4-  Designating zoning districts for parcels newly annexed to the village:
13    2013
           Zoning land recorded as 012005D021 as B-1 Neighborhood Business District.
           Zoning land recorded as 012002C072 as B-2 General Business District.
             Zoning land recorded as 012006D074, 012006D075, 012006D076, 012006F022,
             012006E077, 012003C079, 012003D009, 012003D026, 012011A023, 022011A133,
             022011A134, 022011A135, 022011A136, 022011A137, 012004A112, 012004A092,
           012004A107, 012003J066, 012O03J068, 01203J006, 0120031065, 012002C083,
             012011A078, 022011F101, 012011B099, 012011B092, 012011B076, 012011B098,
             012011B093, 012011C082, 012004C099, 012011C002, 012011C0S6, 012011C087, and
             012011C104 as R-1 Residence District.
           Zoning land recorded as 012003C029, 012006E078, and 012006E013 as I Industrial
             District.
            
 
TABLE III:  BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
951-  2-8-   Providing for the issuance of $120,000 general obligation bond anticipation
99    1999   notes for street improvements.
956-  5-10-  Providing for the issuance of $63,000 of fire equipment general obligation
99    1999   unlimited tax bonds.
959-  7-12-  Providing for the issuance of $180,000 general obligation bond anticipation
99    1999   notes for sewer improvements.
966-  2-14-  Providing for the issuance of $75,000 general obligation bond anticipation
00    2000   notes for street improvements.
970-  7-10-  Providing for the issuance of $162,000 general obligation bond anticipation
00    2000   notes for sewer improvements.
984-  7-9-   Providing for the issuance of $145,000 general obligation bond anticipation
01    2001   notes for sewer improvements.
             Providing for the issuance and sale of not to exceed $600,000 of first
994-  6-10-  mortgage sewer system revenue refunding and improvement bonds for the purpose
02    2002   of refunding the village’s first mortgage sewer system revenue bonds, series
             1992.
1023- 12-1-  Engaging the firm of Peck, Shaffer and Williams LLP as bond counsel for the
03    2003   village.
1089- 11-6-  Providing for the issuance of not to exceed $800,000 West Main Street
06    2006   improvement general obligation bond anticipation notes, second renewal, for
             improving West Main Street.
1123- 11-5-  Providing for the issuance of not to exceed $825,000 of West Main Street
07    2007   general obligation bonds, series 2007.
            
 
TABLE IV:  ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the Village Administrator to proceed with
1211-11  3-7-2011    annexation proceedings, to retain counsel to represent the
                     village in annexation proceedings and allocating
                     additional funds effective 3-7-2011.
                     Stating services to be provided to annexed territory and
1219-11  6-6-2011    requiring the village to require owner to provide a buffer
                     for incompatible zoning uses.
1220-11  6-6-2011    Consenting to the annexation of property as petitioned by
                     Richard G. Saylor, trustee.
                     Stating services to be provided to annexed territory and
1227-11  8-22-2011   requiring the village to require owner to provide a buffer
                     for incompatible zoning uses.
1228-11  8-22-2011   Consenting to the annexation of property as petitioned by
                     Glen Wiedenbein, trustee.
1229-11  9-1-2011    Accepting petition filed by Richard G. Saylor, trustee.
                     Stating services to be provided to annexed territory and
1233-11  10-13-2011  requiring the village to require owner to provide a buffer
                     for incompatible zoning uses.
1234-11  10-13-2011  Consenting to the annexation of property as petitioned by
                     Glen Wiedenbein, trustee.
1238-12  2-6-2012    Accepting petition filed by Glen Wiedenbein, trustee.
1253-12  8-3-2012    Consenting to annexation filed by Glen Wiedenbein.
                     Stating services to be provided to annexed territory and
1254-12  8-3-2012    requiring the village to require owner to provide a buffer
                     for incompatible zoning uses.
1265-12  11-13-2012  Accepting petition filed by Glen Wiedenbein for annexation
                     of 276.976 acres of land.
                     Stating services to be provided to annexed territory and
1282-13  8-5-2013    requiring the village to require owner to provide a buffer
                     for incompatible zoning uses.
1283-13  8-5-2013    Consenting to annexation of property filed by Denise
                     Large.
1290-13  11-4-2013   Accepting petition filed by Denise Large.
                    
 
TABLE V:  LEASES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1036-04  8-8-2004    Authorizing the lease of certain firefighting equipment
                     located on the property known as 377 East Main Street.
1053-05  3-7-2005    Authorizing the lease of the property known as 377 East
                     Main Street.
1079-06  4-3-2006    Lease agreement for real property located at 377 East Main
                     Street.
1129-08  4-7-2008    Lease of the property known as 377 East Main Street.
1172-09  7-20-2009   Authorizing the lease of the property known as 377 East
                     Main Street.
                    
 
TABLE VI:  AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1287-13  10-7-2013   Cooperative agreement with Clermont County to maintain
                     Herold Road.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Ohio Administrative Code
References to 1997 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section          Code Section
1.01                  10.01
1.02                  10.02
1.05                  10.02
1.14                  10.03
1.15                  10.03
1.23                  10.05
1.42                  10.03
1.43                  10.03
1.44                  10.02
1.45                  10.03
1.46                  10.03
1.47                  10.17
1.48                  10.17
1.49                  10.17
1.50                  10.07
1.51                  10.06
1.52                  10.06
1.54                  10.04
1.55                  10.05
1.56                  10.05
1.57                  10.04
1.58                  10.04
1.59                  10.02
128.01(A)             136.20
128.32(E) - (G)       136.20
128.99(A)             136.20
128.99(B)             136.20
701.01                10.02
711.102               152.999
711.13                152.999
715.261               94.05
715.30                94.05
715.47                94.28
715.67                130.99
719.012               94.05
723.011               97.30
729.02                97.35
729.03                97.36
733.46                30.03
901.51                131.21
901.99(A)             131.21
925.62                90.34
925.99(B)             90.34
951.02                90.01
951.10                90.01
951.11                90.02
951.12                90.03
951.13                90.04
951.99                90.01
955.011(B)            90.32
955.10                90.27
955.11                90.28
955.21                90.29
955.22                90.01
955.222               90.01
955.24                90.30
955.25                90.31
955.26                90.05
955.28(A)             90.07
955.39                90.05
955.43(A)             90.32
955.43(B)             90.32
955.43(C)             90.32
955.50                90.33
955.54                90.36
955.99(A)             90.28
                      90.27,
955.99(B)             90.31,
                      90.30
955.99(C)             90.05,
                      90.33
955.99(D)             90.32
955.99(E)             90.01,
                      90.29
955.99(F)             90.01
955.99(G)             90.01
955.99(H)             90.01
955.99(J)             90.01
955.99(L)             90.01
955.99(M)             90.01
955.99(N)             90.01
955.99(O)             90.36
955.99(P)             90.01
955.99(Q)             90.01
959.01                90.20
959.02                90.21
959.03                90.22
959.04                90.21,
                      90.22
959.13                90.23
959.131               90.23
959.15                90.24
959.17                90.25
959.99(B)             90.21
                      90.22,
959.99(C)             90.24,
                      90.25
959.99(D)             90.23
959.99(E)             90.23
959.99(E)(2)          90.20
1349.17               131.31
1349.99               131.31
1533.161              90.35
1533.171(A)           131.24,
                      135.05
1533.99(B)            90.35
1533.99(C)            131.24,
                      135.05
2901.01               130.02
2901.02               130.03
2901.03               130.04
2901.04               130.05
2901.05               130.13
2901.06               130.14
2901.08               130.15
2901.09               130.21
2901.11               130.15
2901.13               130.06
2901.21               130.07
2901.22               130.08
2901.23               130.09
2901.24               130.10
2903.05               135.02
2903.06               135.03
2903.09               135.01
2903.10               135.19
2903.13               135.04
2903.14               135.04
2903.16               135.19
2903.21               135.06
2903.211              135.06
2903.22               135.06
2903.31               135.17
2903.33               135.19
2903.34               135.19
2903.341              135.19
2903.35               135.19
2903.36               135.19
2905.03               135.07
2905.05               135.08
2905.12               135.09
2907.01               133.01
2907.04               133.02
2907.06               133.03
2907.08               133.05
2907.09               133.04
2907.10               133.06
2907.23               133.07
2907.24               133.08
2907.241              133.08
2907.25               133.09
2907.26               133.13
2907.31               133.10
2907.311              133.11
2907.33               133.12
2907.35               133.10
2907.36               133.14
2907.37               133.15
2907.38               133.16
2907.39               133.17
2907.40               133.18
2909.01               131.01
2909.03               131.02
2909.06               131.03
2909.07               131.04
2909.08(A) - (E)      131.05
2909.09               131.03
2909.11(B) - (D)      131.02
2909.31               136.20
2911.21               131.06
2911.211              131.06
2911.23               131.06
2911.32               131.07
2913.01               131.01
2913.02               131.08
2913.03               131.09
2913.04               131.10
2913.07               131.33
2913.11               131.11
2913.21               131.12
2913.31(B)            131.26
2913.31(C)(2)         131.26
2913.32               131.27
2913.33               131.12
2913.34               131.29
2913.40               131.23
2913.401              131.23
2913.41               131.14
2913.42               131.15
2913.43               131.16
2913.44               131.28
2913.441              132.11
2913.45               131.17
2913.47               131.23
2913.48               131.23
2913.51               131.18
2913.61(B) - (E)      131.19
2913.71               131.20
2913.72               131.25
2913.73               131.25
2915.01               134.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K) 134.02
2915.03               134.03
2915.04               134.04
2915.05               134.05
2915.06               134.14
2915.09               134.06
2915.091              134.10
2915.092              134.11
2915.093              134.12
2915.094              134.13
2915.10               134.07
2915.11               134.08
2915.12               134.09
2915.13               134.12
2917.01               132.10
2917.03               132.01
2917.031              132.01
2917.04               132.02
2917.05               132.03
2917.11               132.04
2917.12               132.05
2917.13               132.06
2917.21               132.07
2917.31               132.07
2917.32               132.09
2917.40               132.13
2917.41               132.14
2919.01               135.10
2919.11               135.11
2919.12               135.11
2919.121              135.11
2919.122              135.11
2919.14               135.12
2919.18               135.11
2919.21               135.13
2919.22(A) - (E)      135.13
2919.22(H)            135.13
2919.23               135.15
2919.231              135.15
2919.24               135.18
2919.25               135.16
2919.27               135.23
2921.01               136.01
2921.04               136.15
2921.13               136.02
2921.14               136.14
2921.15               136.19
2921.21               136.03
2921.22               136.04
2921.23               136.05
2921.24               136.15
2921.25               136.15
2921.29               136.20
2921.31               136.06
2921.32               136.07
2921.321              136.15
2921.33               136.08
2921.331(A) - (C)     70.02
2921.331(E)           70.02
2921.331(F)           70.02
2921.36               136.13
2921.37               136.13
2921.42               136.09
2921.43               136.10
2921.44               136.11
2921.45               136.12
2921.51               132.12
2921.52(A) - (D)      136.18
2923.02               130.11
2923.03               130.12
2923.11               92.15,
                      137.01
2923.12               137.02
2923.1211(B)          137.13
2923.1211(C)          137.13
2923.1212             137.13
2923.122(C) - (G)     137.11
2923.126              137.13
2923.131              137.12
2923.15               137.03
2923.16               137.04
2923.162              137.09
2923.18               137.10
2923.19               137.06
2923.20               137.07
2923.201              137.14
2923.211              137.08
2923.24               137.05
2923.43               94.03
2925.01               138.01
2925.03               138.02
2925.04               138.06
2925.11               138.03
2925.12               138.04
2925.13               138.05
2925.14               138.13
2925.141              138.13
2925.31               138.07
2925.32(B)(4)         138.10
2925.32(D)(2)         138.10
2925.32(F)            138.10
2925.32(G)            138.10
2925.33               138.10
2925.36               138.08
2925.37(A)            138.12
2925.37(G)            138.12
2925.37(M)            138.12
2925.50               138.09
2925.51               138.11
2925.511              138.11
2925.55               138.18
2925.56               138.18
2925.57               138.18
2925.58               138.18
2927.01               135.28
2927.02               135.25
2927.021              135.25
2927.022              135.25
2927.023              135.25
2927.03               135.21
2927.12               135.22
2927.15               135.29
2927.27               130.20
2929.21               130.99
2929.22               130.18
2929.23               133.99
2929.24               130.99
2929.25               130.99
2929.26               130.99
2929.27               130.99
2929.28               130.99
2929.31               130.99
2929.41               130.19
2935.041              131.22
2935.28               70.07
2935.36(E)            130.02
2981.07               131.30
2981.11               130.17
2981.12               130.17
2981.13(A)            130.17
3701.81               135.27
3701.82               92.49
3701.99(B)            92.49
3701.99(C)            135.27
3715.05               138.18
3715.06               138.18
3716.11               135.24
3716.99(C)            135.24
3719.01               138.01
3719.011              138.01
3719.013              138.01
3719.08(A)            138.14
3719.08(E)            138.14
3719.172(A)           138.15
3719.172(B)           138.15
3719.19               138.09
3719.99(C)            138.14
3719.99(E)            138.15
3737.51(A)            92.46
3737.61               92.47
3737.62               92.48
3737.63               92.49
3737.99(B)            92.46
3737.99(C)            92.47
3737.99(D)            92.48
3737.99(E)            92.49
3743.25               92.24
3743.54(B) - (F)      92.17
3743.60(E) - (J)      92.18
3743.63               92.19
3743.64(C) - (G)      92.20
3743.65(A) - (E)      92.15
3743.66               92.21
3743.68               92.23
3743.80               92.22
3743.99(C)            92.99
3743.99(D)            92.99
3767.02               94.03
3767.07               94.03
3767.13               94.04
3767.16               94.23
3767.18               94.24
3767.201              70.09
3767.29               94.26
3767.32               94.27
3767.99(A)            94.03
3767.99(B)            94.26
3767.99(C)            94.04,
                      94.27
                      70.09,
3767.99(D)            94.23,
                      94.24
3773.06               137.09
3773.99(A)            137.09
3781.107              92.44
3781.108(A)           92.45
3781.108(B)           92.45
3781.55               133.04
3791.02               92.44,
                      92.45
3791.03               92.44,
                      92.45
3791.031              92.02,
                      135.26
4301.20               93.02
4301.21               93.03
4301.22               93.04
4301.58               93.05
4301.60               93.06
4301.61               93.28
4301.611              93.29
4301.62               93.07
4301.63               93.08
4301.631              93.09
4301.633              93.11
4301.634              93.12
4301.637              93.14
4301.638              93.13
4301.639(A)           93.15
4301.639(C)           93.15
4301.64               93.16
4301.65               93.09
4301.66               93.18
4301.67               93.19
4301.68               93.20
4301.69               93.13
4301.70               93.99
4301.74               93.27
                      93.07,
4301.99(A)            93.09,
                      93.99
                      93.04,
4301.99(B)            93.09,
                      93.16,
                      93.19
                      93.03,
                      93.05,
                      93.06,
4301.99(C)            93.11,
                      93.13,
                      93.18,
                      93.20,
                      93.27
4301.99(D)            93.04
4301.99(E)            93.08,
                      93.09
4301.99(F)            93.12
4301.99(H)            93.04
4301.99(I)            93.13
4301.99(J)            93.09
4303.202(D)(2)        93.17
4303.208(C)           93.17
4303.25               93.05
4303.40               93.26
4303.99(D)            93.17
4399.09               93.21
4399.10               93.22
4399.14               93.23
4399.15               93.24
4399.16               93.25
4399.99(A)            93.25
4399.99(B)            93.21
4399.99(C)            93.22
4399.99(D)            93.23
4399.99(E)            93.24
4501.01(LL)           70.01
4501.01(TT)           72.061
4503.05               71.02
4503.11(A)            71.01
4503.11(D)            71.01
4503.21(A)            71.01
4503.21(B)            71.01
4503.236              71.03
4505.18               71.04
4506.01               71.45
4506.011              71.46
4506.03(A) - (C)      71.48
4506.03(D)            71.48
4506.04(A)            71.47
4506.04(B)            71.47
4506.04(C)            71.47
4506.05(A)            71.48
4506.05(B)            71.48
4506.10(A)            71.49
4506.10(E)            71.49
4506.12(E)            71.47
4506.12(F)            71.47
4506.15(A)            71.50
4506.15(B)            71.50
4506.17(H)            71.50
4506.17(N)            71.50
4506.19               71.51
4506.20               71.52
4506.23               71.50
4506.99               71.99
4507.02(A)            71.22
4507.03               71.22
4507.04               71.22
4507.05(F)            71.21
4507.05(I)            71.21
4507.071(B) - (I)     71.21
4507.071(J)           71.21
4507.30               71.20
4507.31(A)            71.21
4507.31(B)            71.21
4507.321              71.23
4507.35               71.26
4507.36               71.27
4507.99               71.99
4509.102              136.02
4509.74               73.33
4510.037(J)           71.28
                      71.28,
4510.04               71.30,
                      71.31,
                      71.32
4510.11               71.28
4510.111              71.28
4510.12               71.29
4510.14               71.30
4510.15               71.25
4510.16               71.31
4510.21               71.32
4510.44               73.08
4511.01               70.01
4511.03               70.03
4511.031              70.37
4511.04               70.04
4511.041              70.04
4511.042              70.04
4511.05               70.05
4511.051              70.06
4511.07               70.39
4511.08               70.07
4511.094              70.38
4511.11(C)            70.41
4511.12(A)            70.30
4511.12(B)            70.30
4511.121(A) - (C)     70.30
4511.121(D)           70.30
4511.121(E)           70.30
4511.13               70.31
4511.132              70.32
4511.14               70.33
4511.16               70.34
4511.17               70.35
4511.18               70.36
4511.181              73.01
4511.19(A) - (M)      73.01
4511.191(A)           73.02
4511.191(D)           73.02
4511.192              73.02
4511.194              73.03
4511.20               73.05
4511.201              73.06
4511.202              73.07
4511.203              71.24
4511.204              72.126
4511.205              72.127
4511.21(A) - (G)      73.10
4511.21(O)            73.10
4511.21(P)            73.10
4511.211(A) - (E)     73.10
4511.211(F)           73.10
4511.213(A) - (C)     72.115
4511.213(D)           72.115
4511.214              73.16
4511.215              73.16
4511.22               73.11
4511.23               73.13
4511.24               73.12
4511.25               72.001
4511.251              73.09
4511.26               72.003
4511.27               72.004
4511.28               72.005
4511.29               72.006
4511.30               72.007
4511.31               72.008
4511.32               72.009
4511.33               72.010
4511.34               72.011
4511.35               72.012
4511.36               72.013
4511.37               72.014
4511.38               72.015
4511.39               72.016
4511.40               72.017
4511.41               72.030
4511.42               72.031
4511.43               72.032
4511.431(A)           72.033
4511.431(B)           72.033
4511.432(A) - (C)     72.033
4511.432(D)           72.033
4511.432(E)           72.033
4511.44               72.034
4511.441              72.035
4511.45               72.036
4511.451              72.037
4511.452              72.038
4511.46               72.039
4511.47               72.040
4511.48               72.041
4511.481              72.060
4511.49               72.055
4511.491              72.059
4511.50               72.056
4511.51               72.057
4511.511              72.058
4511.512              72.061
4511.52               75.01
4511.521              75.02
4511.53               75.03
4511.54               75.04
4511.55               75.05
4511.56               75.06
4511.60               72.002
4511.61               72.075
4511.62               72.076
4511.63               72.077
4511.64               72.078
4511.65               70.10
4511.66               76.01
4511.661              76.02
4511.67               76.03
4511.68               76.04
4511.681              76.06
4511.69               76.05
4511.70               72.110
4511.701              72.111
4511.71               72.112
4511.711(A)           72.113
4511.711(B)           72.113
4511.712              72.114
4511.713(A)           72.113
4511.713(B)           72.113
4511.72(A)            72.115
4511.72(B)            72.115
4511.73               72.116
4511.74(A)            72.117
4511.74(B)            72.117
4511.74(C)            72.117
4511.75               72.090
4511.751              72.091
4511.76(C)            72.092
4511.76(E)            72.092
4511.76(F)            72.092
4511.761              72.093
4511.762              72.094
4511.763              72.095
4511.764              72.096
4511.77               72.097
4511.771              72.097
4511.772              72.099
4511.79               73.04
4511.81(A) - (H)      72.118
4511.81(K)            72.118
4511.81(L)            72.118
4511.82(A)            72.117
4511.82(B)            72.117
4511.82(C)            72.117
4511.82(D)            72.117
4511.84               72.121
4511.85               72.122
4511.99               70.99
4513.02(A)            74.01
4513.02(H)            74.01
4513.021              74.02
4513.03               74.03
4513.04               74.04
4513.05               74.05
4513.06               74.06
4513.07               74.07
4513.071              74.08
4513.08               74.09
4513.09               74.10
4513.10               74.11
4513.11               74.12
4513.11(I)            74.12
4513.111              74.12
4513.111(E)           74.12
4513.12               74.13
4513.13               74.13
4513.14               74.15
4513.15               74.16
4513.16               74.17
4513.17               74.18
4513.17(F)            74.18
4513.171              74.18
4513.171(B)           74.18
4513.18               74.19
4513.181              74.20
4513.182              74.21
4513.19               74.22
4513.20               74.23
4513.201              74.24
4513.202              74.25
4513.21               74.26
4513.22               74.27
4513.23               74.28
4513.24               74.28
4513.241(C) - (J)     74.31
4513.241(K)           74.31
4513.25               74.30
4513.26               74.31
4513.261              74.32
4513.262              74.33
4513.263              72.118
4513.27               74.34
4513.28               74.35
4513.29               74.36
4513.30               74.56
4513.31               74.57
4513.32               74.58
4513.33               74.59
4513.34               74.55
4513.36               73.15
4513.361              73.14
4513.50               74.38
4513.51(A)            74.38
4513.51(B)            74.38
4513.51(D)            74.38
4513.60               98.01
4513.61               98.02
4513.62               98.03
4513.63               98.04
4513.64               98.05
4513.66               70.12
                      74.11,
                      74.21,
                      74.23,
                      74.24,
                      74.25,
                      74.30,
4513.99               74.31,
                      74.34,
                      74.36,
                      74.55,
                      74.56,
                      74.57,
                      74.58
4519.01               75.25
4519.02               75.34
4519.20(A)            75.26
4519.20(B)            75.26
4519.20(C)            75.26
4519.22(A)            75.26
4519.22(B)            75.26
4519.40               75.27
4519.401              73.16
4519.41               75.28
4519.44               75.29
4519.45               75.30
4519.46               75.30
4519.47               75.32
4519.48               75.33
4519.66               75.35
4549.02               73.30
4549.021              73.31
4549.03               73.32
4549.05               70.11
4549.08               71.06
4549.081(B)           70.30
4549.081(C)           70.30
4549.10               71.07
4549.11(A)            71.01
4549.11(B)            71.01
4549.12(A)            71.01
4549.12(B)            71.01
4549.18               71.05
4549.20               74.39
4729.01               138.01
4731.481              138.17
4731.99(F)            138.17
4733.14               152.002
4734.161              138.17
4734.99(B)            138.17
4933.18               131.32
4933.19               131.32
4999.02               95.01
4999.04               95.02
5577.02               74.60
5577.03               74.61
5577.04               74.61
5577.041              74.61
5577.042              74.66
5577.043              74.66
5577.05               74.62
5577.06               74.62
5577.10               74.63
5577.11               74.64
5577.12               74.65
5577.15               74.58
5577.99(A)            74.60
5577.99(C)            74.61,
                      74.62
5577.99(D)            74.63
5577.99(E)            74.64
5589.08               72.123
5589.081              74.37
5589.12               131.10
                      72.123,
5589.99(B)            74.37,
                      131.10
5739.01(M)            92.44
                      
 
REFERENCES TO OHIO ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
 
O.A.C. Section Code Section
3745-19-01     92.65
3745-19-02     92.66
3745-19-03     92.67
3745-19-05     92.68
4301:1-1-49    93.17
               
 
REFERENCES TO 1997 CODE
1997 Code Section 2014 Code Section
1997 Code Section 2014 Code Section
10.01             10.01
10.02             10.02
10.03             10.03
10.04             10.04
10.05             10.05
10.06             10.06
10.07             10.07
10.08             10.08
10.09             10.09
10.10             10.10
10.11             10.11
10.12             10.12
10.13             10.13
10.14             10.14
10.15             10.15
10.16             10.16
10.17             10.17
10.99             10.99
30.01             30.01
30.02             30.02
31.01             31.01
31.02             31.02
31.03             31.03
31.04             31.04
32.01             32.01
32.03             32.02
33.01             33.01
33.02             33.02
33.03             33.03
33.04             33.04
33.05             33.05
33.06             33.06
33.07             33.07
34.01             34.01
35.01             35.01
35.02             35.02
35.15             35.15
35.16             35.16
35.17             35.17
35.18             35.18
35.19             35.19
35.20             35.20
35.21             35.21
35.22             35.22
35.35             35.35
35.36             35.36
35.37             35.37
35.38             35.38
35.99             35.99
36.01             36.01
37.01             37.01
37.02             37.02
37.03             37.03
37.04             37.04
37.99             37.99
50.01             50.01
50.02             50.02
50.03             50.03
50.04             50.04
50.05             50.05
50.06             50.06
51.01             51.01
51.02             51.02
51.03             51.03
51.99             51.99
52.01             52.01
52.02             52.02
52.03             52.03
52.04             52.04
52.05             52.05
52.06             52.06
52.20             52.20
52.21             52.21
52.22             52.22
52.23             52.23
52.99             52.99
53.01             53.01
53.02             53.02
53.03             53.03
53.05             53.04
70.10             70.13
70.11             70.14
70.12             70.15
70.25             70.39
70.26             70.40
70.27             70.41
70.28             70.42
71.05             71.08
71.24             71.33
72.018            72.018
72.019            72.019
73.81             71.09
74.38             74.40
74.61             74.67
75.07             75.07
75.08             75.08
76.08             76.13
76.13             76.14
76.14             76.15
76.15             76.16
76.25             76.30
Ch. 77, Sch. II   Ch. 77, Sch. II
Ch. 77, Sch. I    Ch. 77, Sch. I
76.40             76.45
90.02             90.08
90.03             90.09
90.08             90.37
90.10             90.38
90.11             90.39
90.13             90.40
90.15             90.41
91.01             91.01
91.02             91.02
91.03             91.03
91.04             91.04
91.05             91.05
91.06             91.06
91.07             91.07
92.01             92.01
92.03             92.02
92.04             92.03
92.19             92.69
94.04             94.07
94.15             94.40
94.16             94.41
94.17             94.42
94.18             94.43
94.19             94.44
94.20             94.45
94.21             94.46
95.01             95.01
95.02             95.02
96.01             96.01
96.02             96.02
96.03             96.03
96.04             96.04
96.05             96.05
96.06             96.06
96.07             96.07
96.08             96.08
96.09             96.09
96.99             96.99
97.01             97.10
97.02             97.11
97.15             97.20
97.16             97.21
97.17             97.22
97.18             97.23
97.31             97.31
97.32             97.32
97.33             97.33
97.34             97.34
97.37             97.37
97.99             97.99
98.06             98.06
98.07             98.07
110.01            110.01
110.03            110.02
110.04            110.03
110.05            110.04
110.07            110.05
110.08            110.06
110.10            110.07
110.11            110.08
110.12            110.09
110.13            110.10
110.14            110.11
111.01            111.01
111.02            111.02
111.15            111.15
111.16            111.16
111.17            111.17
112.01            112.01
112.02            112.02
112.03            112.03
112.04            112.04
112.05            112.05
112.06            112.06
112.07            112.07
112.08            112.08
112.09            112.09
112.10            112.10
112.99            112.99
113.01            113.01
113.02            113.02
113.15            113.15
113.16            113.16
113.17            113.17
113.99            113.99
114.01            114.01
114.02            114.02
114.03            114.03
114.04            114.04
114.05            114.05
114.06            114.06
114.07            114.07
114.08            114.08
114.09            114.09
114.11            114.10
114.12            114.11
114.13            114.12
114.14            114.13
114.15            114.14
114.16            114.15
114.17            114.16
114.99            114.99
131.29            131.34
131.30            131.35
132.13            132.15
132.14            132.16
137.11            137.15
138.99            138.99
139.03            90.35
139.05            139.01
139.06            139.02
150.01            150.01
150.02            150.02
150.03            150.03
150.04            150.06
150.05            150.07
150.15            150.20
150.16            150.21
150.17            150.22
150.30            150.35
150.31            150.36
150.32            150.37
150.45            150.50
150.46            150.51
150.99            150.99
151.01            151.01
151.02            151.02
151.03            151.03
151.04            151.04
151.05            151.05
151.06            151.06
151.07            151.07
151.08            151.08
151.09            151.09
151.10            151.10
151.20            151.25
151.21            151.26
151.22            151.27
151.35            151.40
151.36            151.41
151.37            151.42
151.38            151.43
151.39            151.44
151.99            151.99
152.001           152.001
152.002           152.002
152.003           152.003
152.004           152.004
152.005           152.005
152.006           152.006
152.007           152.007
152.008           152.008
152.020           152.020
152.021           152.021
152.022           152.022
152.023           152.023
152.024           152.024
152.025           152.025
152.026           152.026
152.027           152.027
152.028           152.028
152.029           152.029
152.030           152.030
152.031           152.031
152.032           152.032
152.033           152.033
152.034           152.034
152.035           152.035
152.036           152.036
152.037           152.037
152.050           152.050
152.051           152.051
152.052           152.052
152.053           152.053
152.065           152.065
152.066           152.066
152.067           152.067
152.068           152.068
152.069           152.069
152.070           152.070
152.080           152.085
152.081           152.086
152.082           152.087
152.083           152.088
152.084           152.089
152.085           152.090
152.086           152.091
152.087           152.092
152.088           152.093
152.089           152.094
152.090           152.095
152.091           152.096
152.105           152.110
152.106           152.111
152.107           152.112
152.108           152.113
152.120           152.125
152.121           152.126
152.122           152.127
152.135           152.140
152.136           152.141
152.137           152.142
152.138           152.143
152.139           152.144
152.140           152.145
152.141           152.146
152.142           152.147
152.999           152.999
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
527-72   11-13-1972  153.01
568-76   1-19-1976   33.01—
                     33.07
R75-567  1-21-1976   150.20—
                     150.22
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     114.01,
                     114.02,
308      4-5-1949    114.04—
                     114.11,
                     114.13—
                     114.15
340      6-1-1954    52.05
                     52.01,
341      6-1-1954    52.02,
                     52.04
                     52.20—
342      6-1-1954    52.23,
                     52.99
347      7-6-1954    52.06
355      3-1-1955    52.06
                     150.35—
372      9-3-1957    150.37,
                     150.99
395      2-2-1960    150.01,
                     150.06
403      6-6-1961    112.01—
                     112.10
408      1-16-1962   51.03
417      6-4-1963    153.01
436      1-11-1965   51.01,
                     51.99
444      7-12-1965   31.02
445      7-12-1965   150.07
                     150.50,
452      3-14-1966   150.51,
                     150.99
458      2-13-1967   53.03
463      4-10-1967   153.01
481      12-9-1968   52.99
492      11-10-1969  153.01
511      7-12-1971   50.03
529      12-18-1972  153.01
                     114.03,
530      12-18-1972  114.12,
                     114.16
528      1-8-1973    31.02
                     35.01,
                     35.02,
556-74   12-9-1974   35.15—
                     35.22,
                     35.35—
                     35.38
571-76   4-12-1976   31.03
576-76   6-14-1976   153.01
588-77   3-14-1977   150.03
592-77   8-8-1977    113.15—
                     113.17
594-77   12-12-1977  35.35
610-78   7-10-1978   52.06
611-78   11-13-1978  74.67
617-79   2-12-1979   51.02,
                     51.03
620-79   4-9-1979    53.02
623-79   4-9-1979    150.06
655-80   12-8-1980   Ch. 77, Sch. I
662-81   1-12-1981   51.02
666-81   2-9-1981    150.02
                     97.20,
670-81   4-13-1981   97.21,
                     97.23
671-81   4-13-1981   Ch. 77, Sch. I
673-81   9-14-1981   92.01
678-82   2-8-1982    153.01
688-82   4-12-1982   74.67
691-82   5-10-1982   153.01
697-82   9-13-1982   51.02
704-83   1-10-1983   110.01—
                     110.11
711-83   6-13-1983   30.02
713-83   6-13-1983   31.01
                     96.01—
715-83   8-8-1983    96.09,
                     96.99
726-84   7-9-1984    50.04
741-86   2-10-1986   32.02
746-86   5-12-1986   31.04
747-86   5-12-1986   31.04
748-86   5-12-1986   153.01
750-86   5-19-1986   114.06
759-87   6-8-1987    139.02
760-87   6-8-1987    36.01
777-88   11-28-1988  51.03
783-89   3-13-1989   50.05
787-89   5-24-1989   76.14
788-89   5-24-1989   52.06
792-89   7-10-1989   53.04
810-90   6-11-1990   131.34
817-90   12-10-1990  35.22
821-91   2-11-1991   51.02
822-91   3-11-1991   35.15,
                     35.22
828-91   12-9-1991   76.45
833-92   1-13-1992   153.01
838-92   4-20-1992   30.01
840-92   5-11-1992   153.01
841-92   5-11-1992   92.01
846-92   10-26-1992  50.05,
                     53.02
851-92   1-11-1993   51.02
854-93   2-8-1993    94.40—
                     94.46
856-93   2-8-1993    92.01
859-93   3-22-1993   31.04
860-93   3-22-1993   31.04
870-94   6-13-1994   31.02
                     151.01—
                     151.10,
                     151.25—
877-94   8-22-1994   151.27,
                     151.40—
                     151.44,
                     151.99
883-95   11-28-1994  50.05
886-95   2-27-1995   70.14
892-95   5-8-1995    51.02
889-95   6-26-1995   Ch. 77, Sch. II
893-95   6-26-1995   52.06,
                     53.02
894-95   6-26-1995   91.01—
                     91.07
896-95   6-26-1995   TSO Table II
882-94   8-24-1995   153.01
905-96   1-8-1996    153.01
909-96   7-22-1996   97.34,
                     97.37
911-96   7-22-1996   94.07
913-96   8-26-1996   TSO Table I
922-97   3-10-1997   30.01
924-97   4-14-1997   51.02
927-97   7-14-1997   TSO Table II
943-98   6-8-1998    TSO Table II
947-98   11-9-1998   52.06
951-99   2-8-1999    TSO Table III
953-99   5-10-1999   TSO Table II
956-99   5-10-1999   TSO Table III
954-99   6-14-1999   31.02
957-99   6-14-1999   52.06
959-99   7-12-1999   TSO Table III
960-99   10-11-1999  32.01
966-00   2-14-2000   TSO Table III
970-00   7-10-2000   TSO Table III
977-00   12-11-2000  51.03
978-01   2-12-2001   31.02
979-01   5-14-2001   53.01
981-01   7-9-2001    35.22
982-01   7-9-2001    153.01
984-01   7-9-2001    TSO Table III
983-01   9-10-2001   51.02
985-01   9-10-2001   50.02
994-02   6-10-2002   TSO Table III
997-02   10-7-2002   36.02
1001-02  12-2-2002   30.01
                     53.20—
1009-03  4-7-2003    53.24,
                     53.99
1013-03  5-5-2003    50.02
1015-03  7-7-2003    32.01
1014-03  8-4-2003    98.06
1019-03  8-4-2003    32.01
1020-03  10-6-2003   94.08
1021-03  11-3-2003   52.02
1023-03  12-1-2003   TSO Table III
1032-04  3-15-2004   TSO Table II
1031-04  5-3-2004    113.15,
                     113.99
1036-04  8-8-2004    TSO Table V
1049-04  12-6-2004   35.17,
                     35.19
1051-05  2-7-2005    51.02
1053-05  3-7-2005    TSO Table V
                     70.55—
1052-05  4-4-2005    70.57,
                     70.99
1073-06  1-9-2006    50.07
1079-06  4-3-2006    TSO Table V
1084-06  6-5-2006    51.02
1089-06  11-6-2006   TSO Table III
1096-07  1-8-2007    150.05
1097-07  1-8-2007    150.04
                     35.21,
1101-17  3-5-2007    35.35,
                     35.37
1116-07  9-4-2007    50.08
1119-07  9-4-2007    32.01
1121-07  10-1-2007   153.01
1123-07  11-5-2007   TSO Table III
1124-07  12-3-2007   51.02
1129-08  4-7-2008    TSO Table V
1130-08  4-7-2008    35.22
1137-08  9-2-2008    30.03
1141-08  11-3-2008   35.22
1150-09  2-18-2009   35.22
1158-09  3-30-2009   35.22
1163-09  5-18-2009   TSO Table II
1164-09  5-18-2009   TSO Table II
1167-09  5-18-2009   53.04
1166-09  6-1-2009    36.15
1168-09  6-15-2009   TSO Table II
1172-09  7-20-2009   TSO Table V
1179-09  8-3-2009    31.02
1183-09  8-19-2009   35.15
1182-09  9-21-2009   153.01
1194-09  12-7-2009   110.25—
                     110.27
1197-10  2-1-2010    30.01
1209-11  2-7-2011    36.03
1204-11  3-7-2011    52.06,
                     53.01
1211-11  3-7-2011    TSO Table IV
1210-11  4-4-2011    31.02
1217-11  5-2-2011    37.15,
                     37.16
1214-11  5-16-2011   150.52,
                     150.99
1212-11  5-16-2011   153.01
1213-11  5-16-2011   153.01
1215-11  5-16-2011   153.01
1219-11  6-6-2011    TSO Table IV
1220-11  6-6-2011    TSO Table IV
1218-11  7-11-2011   50.20
1222-11  7-11-2011   90.39,
                     137.09
1223-11  8-1-2011    50.21
1227-11  8-22-2011   TSO Table IV
1228-11  8-22-2011   TSO Table IV
1229-11  9-1-2011    TSO Table IV
1233-11  10-13-2011  TSO Table IV
1234-11  10-13-2011  TSO Table IV
1232-11  12-5-2011   153.01
1236-11  12-5-2011   35.22
1225-11  1-9-2012    TSO Table II
1238-12  2-6-2012    TSO Table IV
1239-12  3-5-2012    52.06,
                     53.01
1241-12  5-7-2012    31.04
                     76.14,
1243-12  6-4-2012    76.30—
                     76.32,
                     76.33
1253-12  8-3-2012    TSO Table IV
1254-12  8-3-2012    TSO Table IV
1246-12  8-6-2012    36.03
1263-12  10-1-2012   36.03
1259-12  11-13-2012  97.01,
                     97.99
1265-12  11-13-2012  TSO Table IV
1264-12  1-7-2013    97.02
1273-13  6-3-2013    51.03
                     150.65—
1271-13  7-1-2013    150.72,
                     150.99
1282-13  8-5-2013    TSO Table IV
1283-13  8-5-2013    TSO Table IV
1281-13  10-7-2013   52.06,
                     53.01
1287-13  10-7-2013   TSO Table IV
1286-13  11-4-2013   TSO Table II
1290-13  11-4-2013   TSO Table IV
1284-13  12-2-2013   97.03
1288-13  12-2-2013   110.25—
                     110.27
                    
 
